Online platforms provide medical advice, frontline diagnosis and treatment
2020-04-23 09:32
Chinese doctors provide free consultation services through WeDoctors global antiepidemic platform in Hangzhou, capital of Zhejiang province, on March . Photo by Long Weifor China Daily    Recognizing the crucial role that traditional Chinese medicine has been playing in the fight against COVID, Chinese online healthcare platforms are including TCM consultations into their services, allowing the ageold remedies to play an even bigger part. As early as Feb  when COVID had not yet been declared a global pandemic, He Jialang, vicepresident of the World Federation of Chinese Medicine Societieswho was in Rome at the timealready realized that time was of the essence when it came to epidemic prevention and control. After days of busy web browsing, he finally got in touch with Huatuo Cloud, a platform under Hangzhoubased digital health company WeDoctor, and launched an international traditional Chinese medicine epidemic prevention and control platform. Joining TCM efforts from various countries and regions around the globe, the platform aims to promote internetbased TCM services to better serve the cause. No one can stand alone in the face of a severe infectious disease. I hope that all TCM professionals can join hands, adopt multiple TCM treatment methods, give full play to internetbased technologies and help people win the fight, He said. As the epidemic developed into a pandemic, TCM demands from overseas have been constantly growing. On March , WeDoctor launched a global epidemic prevention and control platform. The platformGlobal Consultation and Prevention Centerenables more than , Chinese medical professionals to offer help via the internet. On March , a special zoneFamous TCM Doctorswas established on GCPC. The zone integrated previous services offered on Huatuo Clouds international TCM epidemic prevention and control platform, and joined efforts with over , TCM experts from home and abroad, to provide services to people during the special period. Through WeDoctors official WeChat account guahaowang, overseas users can access GCPC. Users can then gain access to free services such as online TCM consultations, which are open to all countries, as well as antiepidemic videos, among other features. What Chinabased internet healthcare contributed to the fight against the pandemic has attracted broad attention overseas. At the beginning of February, a yearold COVID patient in Wuhan, Hubei provincethe hardesthit region in Chinaturned to WeDoctors Huatuo Cloud for online advice. Through the platform, Cao Hongxin, former head of the China Academy of Chinese Medical Sciences, along with his team, learned more about the patients condition and made treatment recommendations based on his symptoms and tongue diagnosis. After taking three remedies recommended by the TCM experts, the patients fever and coughing significantly reduced. By midFebruary, his nucleic acid test produced two negative results. With the help of TCM intervention, none of the patients four family members who were in close contact with him were infected. Caos team has since joined the TCM expert group on WeDoctors GCPC. Outside China, TCM professionals from  countries, including Italy, France, the United Kingdom and Thailand, also joined forces. Digital health is playing an increasingly important role in this fight. Thanks to previous communication and exchanges through online platforms, overseas TCM professionals helped stem the spread of the contagion and provide frontline diagnosis and treatment in a timely manner, said He from the WFCMS. According to WeDoctor, by April , its epidemic prevention and control platform had served a total of . million users from China and more than  other countries and regions around the world. The platform has been recommended by over  Chinese embassies and consulates overseas. In order to offer the latest TCM diagnosis and treatment information to medical professionals around the globe, WeDoctors GCPC organized its experts to translate TCM treatment plans included in the National Health Commissions seventh edition of COVID diagnosis and treatment guidelines. Currently, Chinese, English and French versions are available on GCPCs Famous TCM Doctors zone, and other language versions will be available soon.