Old friend stands firm
2020-02-17 10:20
MA XUEJINGCHINA DAILY    Mali shows that China is not alone in the fight against the epidemic At the beginning of the new year, an epidemic caused by a new type of coronavirus swept across China, causing great concern around the world. In the face of the epidemic, the international community has given precious assistance and firm support to the Chinese people. As an old saying goes, although were oceans apart, a shared moon connects hearts. We, as Chinese living abroad, have deeply felt the friendship of our foreign friends. Mali, located in West Africa, is one of Chinas old friends. After learning about Chinas efforts to combat the epidemic, Mali has shown great understanding and support to China. Malian Prime Minister Boubou Ciss sent a special letter to Chinese Premier Li Keqiang, expressing his condolences to the Chinese government and people and his appreciation of Chinas determination and professionalism in fighting against the epidemic. He said that he believed that under the leadership of Chinese President Xi Jinping, China is fully capable of overcoming the challenge. The Malian government also issued an announcement offering its full support to China in combating the epidemic. Michel Sidibe, Malis health minister, also expressed support for the powerful and effective actions taken by the Chinese government. Major Malian websites and media outlets have published reports on Chinas actions to combat the epidemic. Many Malian friends have left messages to cheer up Chinese friends in difficult times. Friends from all walks of life have expressed their condolences and support to China through different methods such as letters, emails, telephones and short messages. On my social media platform, I have received a lot of encouragement and praise every day such as Blessing China and Love China, some in Chinese and some in French. This year marks the th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between China and Mali. Over the past  years, helping and supporting each other has been a distinguishing feature of the relationship between the two countries and bears testimony to our traditional friendship. As an old Chinese saying goes, it is in the winter that we know pines and cypress can remain evergreen. We really appreciate all the support that Mali has given to us during the difficult times and we will remember this genuine friendship. In the face of the epidemic, the Chinese Embassy and Chinese compatriots in Mali responded immediately. The embassy has kept in close contact with the Malian authorities, including the Prime Ministers Office, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Health, the Immigration Bureau and the airports. The embassy also timely released consular reminders and epidemic prevention notices through the embassy website, the WeChat official account and SMS platforms, and issued an entry reminder at the arrival hall of Bamako Airport. We have timely informed the Mali media and the Mali government of our response measures to ensure that normal personnel and economic and trade exchanges between China and Mali are not affected. Chinese compatriots and staff of Chinesefunded organizations actively organized donations. The Chinese community in Mali is also sending masks to China, and cooperated with the embassy to disseminate consular reminders and epidemic prevention notices. Compatriots in Mali are living a normal life, which is a big support to the domestic fight against the epidemic, and a contribution to the embassys public diplomacy. At this time, China, as a major country in the world, has shown its sense of responsibility to the world. President Xi has personally directed and deployed the prevention work, and Premier Li visited Wuhan, Hubei province, to inspect the epidemic prevention work first hand, which show that the Chinese government puts priority on safeguarding the lives and health of the people. With firm confidence and scientific prevention policies, China has mobilized the nation in a very short period of time, and has adopted the comprehensive and rigorous prevention and control measures at all levels. The full coverage reflects the Chinese governments efficiency and ability, and the Chinese people fully understand the governments deployment and are actively cooperating with the government. Based on the principles of openness, transparency and accountability, the Chinese government has timely updated epidemic information, actively responded to the concerns of all parties, strengthened cooperation with the international community, and received affirmation and high evaluation from the World Health Organization and most countries. All of this support has become a weapon in the fight against the new coronavirus. To control the spread of the epidemic, the Chinese government has adopted unprecedented quarantine measures. Wuhan Huoshenshan Hospital was completed within  days. It has demonstrated Chinas efficiency, and created a miracle showing Chinas will to combat the epidemic. Governments at all levels gave priority to peoples welfare, comprehensively coordinated medical supplies and living materials to areas with severe epidemics to ensure the local peoples treatment and living conditions. The Chinese government also picked up Hubei tourists stranded in Thailand, Malaysia, Japan and other places by chartered planes. The DirectorGeneral of the World Health Organization Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus has expressed his appreciation for the decisive measures taken by the Chinese government. He believes that they have not only protected the Chinese people, but also the people of the world. He emphasized that this is the advantage of the Chinese system and is worth learning. In response to some countries overreacting to the outbreak by suspending flights, the International Civil Aviation Organization also issued an announcement strongly urging countries to follow WHO recommendations. This is a war without the smoke of gunpowder. This is a test for the Chinese people. In , what we feel is not only the brutality of the virus, but also the positive energy of the Chinese people to overcome all difficulties. The country has come through hardships before and it will this time. China is using practical actions to prove to the world that under the leadership of the Communist Party of China and with the unique advantages of the socialist system with Chinese characteristics, we have the confidence, ability and solidarity to win this epidemic prevention and control fight. The author is Chinese ambassador to Mali. The author contributed this article to China Watch, a think tank powered by China Daily. The views do not necessarily reflect those of China Daily.