Wuhan reopens after day lockdown
2020-04-08 07:04
Highspeed trains await the resumption of operations in Wuhan, Hubei province, on Monday. The day lockdown of the city ends on Wednesday. ZHAO JUNFOR CHINA DAILY    Peoples lives, safety, health prioritized in war on COVID Ending the lockdown of Wuhan, Hubei province, on Wednesday will become a milestone for China in securing final victory in the peoples war against the COVID outbreak under the command of President Xi Jinping, observers said. The decisive measures that the Communist Party of China Central Committeewith Xi as its general secretaryhave taken to help Wuhan fight the epidemic held the key to curbing the spread of the novel coronavirus in what was the hardesthit city, as well as in the province and in the entire country, they said. A constant theme has been people first in the fight against the contagion as Xi has stressed putting peoples lives, safety and health as the top priority and placing the peoples interests above everything else. In his meeting with World Health Organization DirectorGeneral Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus on Jan  in Beijing, Xi said peoples safety and their health always come first. Recounting his experience of leading World Health Organization experts on a nineday joint mission investigating COVID in China, Canadian epidemiologist Bruce Aylward commended Chinas approaches in responding to the disease. If I had COVID, Id want to be treated in China, he said. They know and they care about keeping people alive, and they do it successfully. While masterminding the epidemic prevention and control efforts, Xi gave Hubei, particularly Wuhan, the provincial capital, priority. He said that when Wuhan wins, Hubei wins when Hubei wins, China wins. Therefore, since the start of the outbreak, the CPC Central Committee has taken the most comprehensive, thorough and rigorous measures to resolutely curb the spread of the virus in Wuhan and Hubei. As experts recommended quarantine measures to help reduce population movement, which in turn helped to stem the spread of the virus, the CPC Central Committee made the decision on Jan  to ask Hubei to stop outbound travel to prevent the disease from spreading in other regions. Xi said at a meeting in February that making such a decision demands tremendous political courage, but time calls for resolute action, otherwise, we would be in trouble. On Jan , the authorities in Wuhan announced the lockdown of the city. All public transportation and businesses were suspended, and residents were required to stay indoors to cut transmission in neighborhoods. Putting such a huge city with over  million residents under quarantine was unprecedented but has proved to be effective. During his visit to Wuhan on March , Xi said all prevention and control measures adopted by the CPC Central Committee focus on preventing more people from being infected and are aimed at saving more patients lives.