Official Shanghai wellequipped to deal with another outbreak
2021-01-26 17:13
Medical workers explain to visitors the Fudan University Shanghai Cancer Centers section in Xuhui district, Shanghai stopped offering outpatient services on Jan , . Starting from Thursday, the Fudan University Shanghai Cancer Centers section in Xuhui district and the western section of Renji Hospital stopped outpatient services due to COVID control and prevention measures. Photo by Gao Erqiangchinadaily.com.cn    A senior health official in Shanghai said on Tuesday that the municipality has sufficient medical staff, supplies and facilities, and is capable of responding to another epidemic should it break out. The comment was made following the emergence of  new locally transmitted COVID cases between Jan  and Jan . Wu Jinglei, director of the Shanghai Municipal Health Commission, said that a medical team specially set up to deal with public health emergencies as well as a multidisciplinary team comprising doctors and nurses specializing in infectious diseases, respiratory diseases, and critical care are already on standby. A total of , beds have been made ready at the designated hospital in Shanghai to treat COVID patients, and the amount of material related to epidemic prevention and control as well as contagion treatment at our medical institutions is sufficient, he said. Critical medical care teams from major hospitals in the city are also standing by to assist the Shanghai Public Health Clinical Center  the designated hospital in Shanghai for the treatment of COVID patients, he added. Theres no need for residents to be too concerned about this new wave of local infections in the city, said Ning Guang, president of Shanghai Ruijin Hospital. Shanghai is a very safe city and it is normal that cases happen in such a megacity. Shanghai has precise strategies and complete systems to cope with such outbreaks and allow its residents to live in a vibrant and efficient society. Over at Shanghai Renji Hospital, which placed its western campus under closedloop management after a worker tested positive for the novel coronavirus last Thursday, some doctors have already started online clinic services for their patients. Chief physician of digestive diseases Ma Xiong, who was placed under hotel quarantine because he worked at the hospital last week, is among the first to provide online clinic service. On Tuesday, Ma provided consultation to a patient in the hospitals Ningbo branch, using G technologies to remotely view patient history and analyze CT scans and other test results.