Official overcomes double lockdown
2021-01-01 08:13
Ma Jie, Party secretary of Yingqian village, Shanghai, works in his office last month.?GAO ERQIANGCHINA DAILY    On Dec , at a residential community at  Hangcheng Seven Road in Shanghais Pudong New Area, Ma Jie brought a bunch of flowers to his wife. He hadnt seen her for  days, despite being just minutes away by car. Ma, Party secretary of Yingqian village in Zhuqiao town, lives in the community, about a minute drive from the village. During a recent two week lockdown in the village, Ma was busy communicating and coordinating various measures. In addition to arranging nucleic acid tests for residents, he helped obtain medicine, arrange hospital visits, deal with residents emergencies and comfort people. He slept on the floor beside the sofa in his office. After two weeks of quarantine, Ma finally breathed a sigh of relief as he saw life in the village return to normal with a rising number of people and cars. I had to eat steamed buns for meals three times a day in those  days, and often had to eat them cold as it was hard to find a fixed dining time, he said. My biggest wish was to have a hot meal, chat with more people, like my parents, who are in their s, and hug my yearold grandson after my family worried about me for more than  days. While Ma was busy preparing the reopening of Yingqian, which was locked down on Nov  as a result of a confirmed case of COVID, a similar situation was imposed on his community in Pudong New Area after a confirmed case was reported there on Nov . My wife had prepared for my homecoming on Nov  and had arranged a reunion dinner with my parents and family, he said, adding that his immediate family, parents and close relatives all live in the community. Ma realized he would have to sleep in the temporary office in the neighborhood committee for another  days. Id almost run out of the clean clothes I brought to the village, since I couldnt wash them there. I had already accumulated a lot of dirty clothes, he said. Unable to return home, Ma stayed in the village. While he worked in the office by day, he became accustomed to sleeping on the floor at night. He ran grocery errands for his family, leaving the goods outside the entrance of the community on Hangcheng Seven Road. At midnight on Dec , after a day lockdown, the community became the last mediumrisk area in Shanghai to be cleared. It was good to come home,Ma said. My wife and I have been married for  years, and I have never sent her flowers. Now, I feel that a safe home is the greatest happiness in life. Recalling his  days away, Ma said it was the most stressful and busy period of his life. However, it was meaningful. There are more than , families like mine in Yingqian. The sweat of my colleagues and I have brought peace and harmony to those families. Our hard work has helped hundreds of people avoid the epidemic and proved that COVID is preventable, Ma said. Were set to continue our prevention efforts and look forward to welcoming a healthy and sound New Year.