Obama endorsement boosts Bidens campaign
2020-04-16 10:25
ThenDemocratic presidential candidates Senator Joe Biden and thenSenator Barack Obama talk prior to the South Carolina Democratic partys presidential candidates debate at South Carolina State University in Orangeburg, South Carolina, US, in this April ,  file photo. PhotoAgencies    WASHINGTONFormer US president Barack Obama endorsed Joe Bidens White House bid on Tuesday, saying his longtime wingman can unify and heal a nation struggling through some of its darkest moments. The formal backing by perhaps the most popular politician in the United States is the latest boost for Bidens surging candidacy, and a further sign that Democratic leaders are rallying around the party flagbearer more than six months before Novembers election, Agence FrancePresse said. Joe has the character and the experience to guide us through one of our darkest times and heal us through a long recovery, Obama said in a minute video posted on Twitter. I believe Joe has all the qualities we need in a president right now. The cherished endorsement comes at a time of deep national anxiety, with the vast majority of residents under stayathome orders due to the coronavirus pandemic that has killed nearly , people in the country. With US President Donald Trumps handling of the outbreak under the spotlight, Obama signaled he believed Bidenwith four decades of government experiencewould be a far more capable manager of the US response. Joe helped me manage HN influenza and prevent the Ebola epidemic from becoming the type of pandemic were seeing now, Obama said. Biden, , promptly expressed his thanks in a tweet. BarackThis endorsement means the world to Jill and me, he said. Were going to build on the progress we made together, and theres no one Id rather have standing by my side. Biden is the Democratic Partys presumptive nominee to challenge Trump, after his lone remaining opponent Bernie Sanders dropped out of the race last week. The US senator from Vermont endorsed his exrival on Monday, saying it was time for Americans to come together behind Biden. Twoterm president Obama also praised Sanders as a progressive champion whose energy and enthusiasm inspired young voters by the millions. And he said it was time for those progressive supporters to help defeat the Republican incumbent. Special bond Right now, we need Americans of goodwill to unite in a great awakening against a politics that too often has been characterized by corruption, carelessness, selfdealing, disinformation, ignorance, and just plain meanness, Obama said. To change that, we need Americans of all political stripes to get involved in our politics and our public life like never before. The endorsement came as the virus has frozen traditional campaigning. Typically, such highprofile support would be followed by Obamas appearance at a major Biden rally, generating substantial national coverage and prompting a deluge of campaign donations. But it remains unclear when, if at all, ontheground campaigning will resume. Obama forged a special bond with Biden the former Delaware senator served as his vicepresident, awarding him the presidential medal of freedom in January . But thus far in the  race the nations first AfricanAmerican leader had largely flown under the political radar. Despite his silence, he was given a starring role in campaign advertisements by Biden and Sanders as they scrambled for advantage ahead of key primaries, such as those on Super Tuesday on March . Obamas endorsement also came relatively early in the race compared with . That year he waited until June  to endorse Hillary Clinton. Agencies  Xinhua