Nuclear energy provider powering on amid outbreak
2020-04-24 10:00
CNNC employees pack medical supplies for use in Wuhan, the hardesthit city during the epidemic in China, on Feb . Photo provided to China Daily    Editors Note Starting today, China Dailys occasional special page SOE Matters will add depth and width to our coverage of business, finance and economy by spotlighting Stateowned enterprises, or SOEs. Chinas public sector has been, and will continue to be, a key part of the national economy. And, given SOEs massive size and scope of influence, particularly in the context of their recent stellar efforts to strengthen not only the countrys prevention and control measures during the COVID pandemic, but the Belt and Road Initiative as well, they are also key to stable growth of the global economy. It is, therefore, vitally important to document on a continual basis SOEs financial performance, corporate governance, and business and technological achievements. SOE Matters will endeavor to do just that. State firm set to balance operations with epidemic relief measures China National Nuclear Corp will balance epidemic control measures with business operations to ensure fullyear targets are met while technological innovation and safety will continue to be stressed, said a senior executive of the Stateowned company. Currently, about . percent of production subsidiaries of CNNC have resumed operations despite the ongoing COVID pandemic, according to Gu Jun, general manager of the countrys biggest nuclear power conglomerate in terms of production. The companys  nuclear power units generated more than  billion kilowatthours of electricity since Jan , thus helping meet energy demand amid ongoing work to fight the contagion. In March, China Nuclear Power Engineering, a subsidiary of CNNC, completed a key test in a nuclear power unit using Hualong One technologya domestically developed thirdgeneration reactor designin Fuqing, Fujian province, marking an important step in the development of the unit before fuel loading begins. China National Uranium Co, a mining branch of CNNC, reported a . percent yearonyear rise in firstquarter revenue, with profits up . percent. During the crisis, the stability of society is more important than ever. Besides telecommunications, the daily supply of electricity and other utilities are also essential to battle the virus, said Raymond Wang, a partner at consultancy Roland Berger. In addition to guaranteeing business performance, CNNC is carrying out its social responsibilities. China Isotope  Radiation Corp, another subsidiary of CNNC, has been providing radiation sterilization services for products before use since Jan  and has disinfected about . million medical protective gowns, , surgical masks, . million medical latex gloves and , kilograms of traditional Chinese medicine.