Not an end, but a starting point
2020-11-09 08:47
A villager in Fuping county, Shaanxi province, cleans persimmons to be processed into dry snacks. The industry has boosted local peoples incomes and helped , registered impoverished households shake off poverty.?TAO MINGXINHUA    An old friend of China is in awe as the country approaches its longheld goal of eradicating extreme povertyEditors note As China aims to eliminate extreme poverty and be a moderately prosperous society xiaokang shehui in time for the th anniversary of the founding of the Communist Party of China next year, we talk to experts for their take on the countrys commitment. This is the most incredible transformation of onefifth of the people of the whole planet in  years, says Stephen Perry, chairman of The  Group Club in Britain and a contributor to eradicating poverty in China in recent decades. China, with a population of about . billion people, has set a goal to lift all its rural population out of extreme poverty by the end of this year. This year is a very difficult year because youre dealing with the most challenging parts of the poverty problem, the ones that have been left at the end to deal with, Perry said. Bench marks of poverty eradication in China include minimum annual incomes reaching , yuan , people not worrying about access to food and clothing, compulsory education to be available for children, basic medical treatment to be available and for people to have safe living conditions, the State Council Leading Group Office of Poverty Alleviation and Development has said. Challenges now present themselves, Perry said. In the short term, because of COVID, the number of poor in the world will rise, but China is going the other way. Completing the building of a moderately prosperous society at the th anniversary of the founding of the Communist Party of China next year was one of two centenary goals set by the Communist Party of China Central Committee at the th National Congress in November . Carrying out targeted poverty alleviation is a key to achieving this goal.