Northern regions gain control of multiple COVID outbreaks
2021-01-30 06:49
Workers transport medical supplies at a warehouse in Suihua, Heilongjiang province, on Thursday. Since the COVID outbreak in the city earlier this month, authorities have taken measures to ensure the supply of epidemic control materials and the supply has been abundant so far. ZHANG TAOXINHUA    Northern regions battling outbreaks of the coronavirus heard better news on Friday, with Beijing announcing it had contained the outbreak and many residents in Shijiazhuang of Hebei province being allowed to resume their normal lives. Beijing has effectively contained the regional cluster of COVID cases in Daxing district through multiple measures including community lockdown, mass testing and disinfection, Xu Hejian, spokesman for the municipal government, said on Friday, while warning of the possibility of more cases. Beijing on Thursday recorded one new confirmed case detected in Daxing district. As of Thursday, the cluster infection in Daxing has involved  cases in Ronghui residential community, which has not spread to office buildings or shopping malls, according to Pang Xinghuo, deputy head of the Beijing Center for Disease Control and Prevention. In Dalian, Liaoning province, the last local confirmed patient was discharged from hospital, clearing all the local confirmed cases reported from the recent outbreak that started in December. In Hebei province, which has been severely hit by a cluster infection this month, most residents in the capital Shijiazhuang could finally get back to normal life on Friday after staying at home for over  days. Except for those in two highrisk areas and places that had reported local confirmed cases in the past  days, each household will be given a uniform pass for their villages or communities, according to ViceMayor Meng Xianghong. Public transport like buses and taxis will gradually resume operation with limited passenger volume, Meng said on Friday afternoon. Services including supermarkets, hotels, vegetable markets and barbershops will also restart their businesses with controlled customer numbers. I never thought I would miss a traffic jam so much, it feels so good, said Li Yuan, a yearold resident in the citys Qiaoxi district, who stayed at home for  days. I am so excited that everything will go back to normal, he said, adding his first stop was a barbershop. The Chinese mainland witnessed its third daily decrease in locally transmitted cases on Thursday, with  confirmed cases recorded,  of them in Heilongjiang province, according to the National Health Commission. To ensure the safety and health of villagers who are in central quarantine after returning home, comprehensive disinfection efforts starting on Monday have been conducted in the worsthit villages of Huiqi township in Wangkui county, Suihua, Heilongjiang province, according to Dong Shuangqing, deputy Party secretary of the county, at a news conference on Friday. Du Juan in Beijing contributed to this story.