Nonstop work at the epicenter
2020-05-15 11:45
Wu Ge left leads a team at Shanghai Pudong International Airport tasked with COVID prevention and control.Photo provided to China Daily    On his first day as an airport official tasked with COVID prevention and control, Wu Ge was assigned to prepare a waiting area at Terminal  of Pudong International Airport specifically for transit passengers. The task wouldve been challenging for most peopleit had to be completed within three hoursbut Wu, who has worked at the airport for more than a decade, took it in stride and quickly delegated tasks to his colleagues. Together, they cleaned and disinfected the premises, set up cordons as well as zones for checking peoples temperatures and filling out forms. It wasnt until the first passenger stepped into the waiting area that Wu finally took a break from his work. Born in southwestern Chinas Chongqing, the yearold began working at Pudong International Airport in  and is currently an official leading more than  staff members of the Shanghai airport authoritys security check and protection department. My duties include ID checks, physical inspections and luggage examinations for passengers who travel domestically from Terminal  of the airport, says Wu. As the nations busiest airport for overseas travelers, Shanghai Pudong International Airport is currently battling the COVID epidemic with closedloop management. During this critical period, Wu and his colleagues have been assigned to a special task force in charge of separating overseas travelers into various categories, sending passengers to quarantine spots and safeguarding passengers during transfers. This job requires utmost care, responsibility and extremely hard work. Our teammates have sweat all over their bodies as they have to wear N facemasks, goggles and protective suits throughout a shift. Each of us walks at least , steps every day. Sometimes we even hit , steps, he says. Wus work as the group leader is nonstop. Breakfast is sometimes the only meal he has in a day. Wu says he tries his best to optimize the procedures to reduce waiting time for passengers in the transit area. He has also arranged for various amenities, such as hand gels, power banks, sewing kits, bandaids as well as hot water and biscuits to be made available for passengers around the clock. As part of heightened efforts to contain the outbreak, Shanghai has since March  required all passengers from places outside the Chinese mainland to undergo a day quarantine at designated locations in the city. Wu believes the battle against the epidemic is far from over. As more businesses begin operations, air traffic will become busy again, and this means our work will become more intense, he says.