Noble Party member, , volunteers to take on virus
2020-02-21 16:05
Guo Zhongjie, an yearold Party member in Huanghou village is a steadfast volunteer in the battle against the coronavirus epidemic. Photo provided to China DailyA whitehaired old timer and a Party member in Huanghou village, Yingshan county in Sichuan province  who most would forgive for staying at home in the comfort of his armchair  has instead volunteered to go out and actively help combat the novel coronavirus epidemic and protect the safety of villagers, officials said.Guo Zhongjie is the oldest volunteer in the village at  years of age. On hearing his decision, his family and neighbors all begged him to stay at home and take it easy.They said you are too old for this task. Its better for you to stay at home and take care of yourself, he recounted.It did not shake Guos resolve in the least. Although I am  years old, its time for me to stand up in this emergency, just because I am a communist.After joining the volunteer team, Guo worked at the forefront of epidemic prevention and control. He goes to the entrance to the village and prevents outsiders from bringing viruses into the village, as well as disinfects passing vehicles.Together with Guo are another five old staunch Party members from the village who are above the age of . Theyve all actively participated in the epidemic prevention and control.Xu Mingyang, a yearold Party member, who lives farthest from the village, volunteered to be a guardian at the entrance. Every day, after walking from his home to his post, he goes out of his way to explain the epidemic prevention and control policy to villagers and advises them not to go to the village fair to avoid infection.I know its risky to join the epidemic prevention and control, but if we communists dont stand up and be counted, who else would? said Feng Ziquan, another yearold Party member.He volunteered to patrol the village and look for hidden dangers. When he returns home at night, Feng still has to take care of his wife who has pain in her feet.When the old Party members offered to take part in the prevention and control of the epidemic, we were deeply moved while at the same time a bit worried, said Guo Debing, Party secretary of the village, adding that he didnt expect that they would do their work so well considering their age and poor physical condition.The courageous spirit of the old Party members are quite encouraging for us, said Guo. The villagers are also grateful for their selfless contribution, he added.