No new virus cases in S Chinas Guangdong since Friday
2020-08-16 14:08
Customs workers check an inbound passengers health information card in Shenzhen Bay Port in Shenzhen, South Chinas Guangdong province, on April , . PhotoXinhua    The novel coronavirus epidemic situation remains largely stable in South Chinas Guangdong province, with no new local infections reported following six domesticallyinfected cases announced on Friday, according to a provincial health official. A yearold woman, who worked at a Hema Fresh supermarket in Shenzhen, was confirmed a COVID patient after she returned to her hometown in Shanwei, Guangdong. Three of her family members and two of her coworkers at the supermarket tested positive for the virus but had no symptoms. The six became the first domesticallyinfected cases since April  in the province, with only imported cases reported before them since that date. On Thursday, Shenzhen authorities announced a sample from a chicken wing imported from Brazil tested positive for coronavirus. The epidemic situation remains largely stable in Guangdong but epidemic control remains grave and complicated with the risk of infections imported from other parts of the country and the world still there, said Duan Yufei, director of the provincial health commission, at a press conference on Sunday. The risk of scattered new cases still exists. Job sites and residences in Shenzhen and Shanwei related to the new cases were put under strict management. Cinemas in Shanwei were suspended. Since the new infections were found, , samples in Shanwei and , samples in Shenzhen, including samples from people and the environment, have been tested, Duan said. Daily testing capacity in Shanwei has been boosted from , to ,. Shenzhen has a daily testing capacity of ,. Daily capacity of more than , can be shifted to places in need in Guangdong, Duan said. A total of , samples had been tested from  Hema Fresh supermarkets and  businesses related to the chain in Guangdong, with a focus on imported frozen meat and aquatic products, said Mai Jiaomeng, director of the provincial administration for market regulation. The province has stepped up testing at farm produce markets, supermarkets, food companies, cold storage facilities, and coldchain logistics firms. Three samples from frozen chicken wings imported from Brazil and stored in a facility in Longgang district, Shenzhen, tested positive. The virus on the chicken wings was not active and not able to infect humans, said Deng Huihong, director of director of the provincial Center for Disease Control and Prevention. The farm produce market in Guangdong remains safe and under control, Mai said.