No major exodus of foreign capital expected
2020-04-24 09:34
Employees work at the production line of Tianjin FAW Toyota Motor Co Ltd in Tianjin on Feb . PhotoXinhua    Though the COVID pandemic has had an impact on foreignfunded companies operating in China, the possible withdrawal of some United States and Japanese companies will not crash the countrys economy as supportive government policies, market scale and an advanced industrial supply chain are sufficient. Foreign enterprises have made contributions to China becoming the worlds secondlargest economy and the biggest destination for FDI as they have brought capital, technology, management expertise and equipment into the country. However, Chinas development hasnt depended solely on charity from US or Japanese firms. As long as the country is fully prepared and continues to create a highlevel business environment for global companies, it certainly can cope with the possible distortive effects generated by some US and Japanese companies withdrawing. Based on its developing strength, China has three trump cards that allow it to remain competitive in attracting global investment from a longterm perspective. First of all, consider Chinas appealing domestic market. Due to Chinas  million middleincome consumers, many US and Japanese companies will definitely regret it if they leave the Chinese market and its welldeveloped supply and industrial chains. The result for many of them is predicablethey will return to China again for sure. After the novel coronavirus outbreak, China will offer more favorable policies to win over new foreign investment and try to maintain its current stock of foreign investment and design new growth points in areas such as G, extrahigh voltage and the internet of things. Backed by these factors, the Chinese economy will continue to grow in the coming decades and China will become the worlds largest consumer market. Therefore, we are fully confident about these facts and more companies from Europe, North America, Japan and South Korea will continue to value this fastdeveloping market. There is also a growing tendency among manufacturers, including Chinese firms, to shift production lines to economies in Southeast Asia such as Vietnam, Indonesia and Myanmar in pursuit of lower labor costs. However, the novel coronavirus outbreak this year has also revealed how much these relocated facilities still depend on China for a number of production elements such as equipment, materials, skilled workers, power and spare parts, and many have been forced to partially shut down due to supplies of these essentials being cut off. For instance, China had to dispatch cargo planes to ship materials to Myanmar to assist local garment factories resume production last month. Apart from a complete industry chain, where companies can find almost anything for production of a wide range of products, Chinas business climate has improved in recent years and will further improve, with a slew of new laws and regulations as well as highlevel international trade fairs and other exhibition events. To further consolidate its position in the global supply chain, China needs to further highlight the role of the China International Import Expo in Shanghai. The event will serve as a benchmark for the postepidemic recovery of the global economy. It will push more companies to either invest in, or expand their market presence in, China. The second is Chinas continued efforts to create a more complete business environment. In addition to market opportunities, corporate investment also values the business environment and whether foreign investors rights and market access can be treated equally in a foreign country. China has been constantly improving its business and legal environment to facilitate the growth of global companies, as well as accelerating innovation and cutting administrative barriers in its pilot free trade zones across the country. As foreign investors are keen to see improvements in the protection of intellectual property rights in China, the government must pay more attention to IPR protection. China should step up its efforts to eliminate illegal IPR activities, establish more IPR courts and increase punishments for violators. Any company that violates IPR must be severely punished, even to the point of causing bankruptcy. It is equally critical to improve government services. As  is the first year for the implementation of Chinas Foreign Investment Law, the government should further cut the items on its negative lists in both FTZs and at the national level. A negative list indicates areas where foreign investment is prohibited or restricted. When China released its first negative list in , there were more than  measures to restrict and prohibit foreign investment in a number of industries. Now there are only  measures left on the list. For the next step, China should authorize more access to the services sector and allow more foreign companies to enter sectors such as pension services, financial and insurance industries without setting restrictions on the proportion of equity. In , China was ranked st in the World Bank Groups global business climate ranking, up from th in  and th in . The USbased multilateral lender also ranked China among the top  best improvers for a second consecutive year. Eager to boost its economic growth vitality, Shanghai announced  new policies in midApril to further improve the citys business environment and attract more foreign investors. The measures were introduced to implement the countrys deepened openingup policies, step up investment promotion, make business opportunities more accessible to foreign investors and better protect their legal rights, said the municipal government. The third is Chinas open, stable and welldeveloped industrial and supply chains. China must separately develop open, stable and safe industrial and supply chains in both international and domestic markets to prevent unexpected risks. If these two chains are successfully built, China will be able to become a driving force behind the recovery of the global economy. Because the world has entered the era of globalization, multinationals will remain optimistic about China, and there wont be largescale withdrawal of FDI from the market despite some US or Japanese companies withdrawing parts of factories to either their home markets or to other parts of the world. China has been recovering more steadily than other countries from the pandemic. The country will see more FDI inflows in sectors like medical products, pharmaceuticals and hightech industries over the next several years. Apart from Chinas improved business environment dominated by the market economy, the nations comprehensive advantages based on efficiency, labor quality, resources and digital and physical infrastructure will continue to help the nation attract investment from global companies over the long term. Backed by its institutional advantages, impressive mobilization ability and industrial system, the countrys epidemic prevention and control work fully demonstrates Chinas strength in overcoming difficulties. This will play a key role in attracting foreign investment in the future. The author is former viceminister of commerce and vicechairman of Beijingbased China Center for International Economic Exchanges.