No chicanery can disguise the fact oneChina is immutable actuality China Daily editorial
2021-05-25 20:02
Photo taken in Brussels, Belgium on May ,  shows the live stream of the th World Health Assembly held at the World Health Organization headquarters in Geneva, Switzerland.?PhotoXinhua    Once again, in a bid to legitimize its position that Taiwan be viewed as being de facto independent, and thereby forego the need to calamitously declare independence, the secessionistminded administration on the island has tried to politicize what it decries as its exclusion from global bodies. For the fifth year in a row it has orchestrated the proposal that the island be allowed to participate in the meeting of the World Health Assembly, the highest decisionmaking body of the World Health Organization, as an observer. And for the fifth year in succession, the proposal  which goes against the purpose and principles of the UN Charter, and is in violation of the WHOs Constitution and the WHAs rules of procedure  has rightly been rejected. The decision, as Chen Xu, Chinas permanent representative to the United Nations Office at Geneva, said in a statement, is in line with Resolution  of United Nations General Assembly and Resolution . of the World Health Assembly. The former recognizes the Peoples Republic of China as the only legitimate representative of China to the United Nations, and the latter recognizes the representatives of the PRC government as the only legitimate representatives of China to the World Health Organization. It was only because the previous administration on the island recognized and upheld the oneChina principle that the central government made arrangements for the island to participate in the assembly as an observer. The Taiwan authoritys attempt to join the WHA has not been made with the welfare of the people on the island in mind, but in a bid for political gains. It is just the latest instance of the Tsai Ingwen administrations efforts to reinforce the impression that the island is de facto independent by pushing it onto the world stage by means of the United Nations health body. It has repeatedly and frequently claimed that it is not getting information on the COVID pandemic because it does not have direct access to the WHO. Yet according to the agreement reached between China and the WHO, there is an International Health Regulations Contact Point on the island, so that it can obtain timely information on global public health emergencies released by the WHO and report its public health emergency situation to the WHO. Also, since the outbreak of the pandemic, the central government has sent  notifications on COVID to the islands health authorities. And health experts from the island have participated in  WHO technical activities and the WHO Secretariat has briefed health experts in the Taiwan region several times on pandemic information. Moreover, health experts on the island do not lack channels and platforms to share response and control practices with their counterparts elsewhere. The socalled international epidemic prevention gap is a fabrication of the Democratic Progressive Party authorities, who need to realize, no matter what ruses they employ, they cannot alter the status of the island. Indeed, rather than reinforcing the impression of the islands de facto independence, such efforts only confirm that the island is inviolably a part of China.