NIA ExitEntry Services Fully Resumed in Lowrisk Regions
2020-02-27 00:00
The National Immigration Administration NIA of China rolled out ten measures regarding exitentry management to support the resumption of work and production in relevant industries in the context of epidemic response, and ensure smooth exitentry services to facilitate economic and social development. Exitentry services will be reopened in a regionspecific, categorybased and wellplanned manner to guarantee normal outbound economic, trade and scientific research activities by Chinese and foreign nationals. A differentiated response strategy has been adopted services in lowrisk regions are fully resumed today and those in mediumrisk regions will be gradually restored as appropriate for highrisk regions, emergency appointments will be available to handle urgent applications on a casebycase basis. Foreign nationals engaged in innovation activities, business startups and scientific research in China are encouraged to continue their life and work as usual and will be provided facilitation for their stay and residence. If their visas, stay or residence permits expire during the epidemic, the validity of their documents will be automatically extended for two months with no procedures required. Reentry visas may be issued in advance if they need to exit for shortterm business, trade, scientific research and academic exchange activities. Exitentry facilitations will be provided to promote smooth resumption of work and production as well as foreign trade and economic exchanges. Application of entry and exit documents by both Chinese and foreign nationals for the purpose of resuming work and production will be processed on a priority basis. For those entering or exiting China on a tight schedule, a fast track will be offered by border control authorities. Foreign nationals who need to enter China for urgent investment, business startup or trade activities will be provided with facilitations such as port visa or temporary entry permit. The import and export of epidemicrelated supplies and relevant international cooperation will continue to be prioritized.Chinese and foreign nationals taking part in epidemicrelated medical care, drug research and development and academic exchanges can have their entry and exit documents processed within  hours. Foreign nationals who come to China to join the fight against the epidemic will have residence permits for the duration of their stay. Transportation vehicles delivering epidemic control supplies, imports and exports and fresh agricultural products will continue to enjoy zero waiting time for customs inspection and release and roundtheclock exitentry services. The NIA will adopt strict prevention and control measures at application centers and during customs clearance. At all the desks, passageways and venues open for services, epidemic control regulations will be enforced rigorously and public health security guidelines implemented to the full. The Administration will further improve the interdepartmental response mechanism at ports and coordinate efforts on screening, quarantine and medical observation for travelers where necessary. It will seek to lower crowd density by providing staggered, categorized services to reduce the possibility of transmission. Greater efforts will be made to communicate disease prevention knowledge to travelers, and basic protective equipment will be provided free of charge to those who lack or forget to wear masks.Online services have been introduced to reduce population movement and clusters, thus lowering infection risks. For instance, Chinese and foreign nationals are able to submit online or mail applications and check the latest exitentry policy changes via the Internet.