New virus cases raise risk level in Tianjin
2020-11-21 08:00
A medical worker takes swab samples from a resident in Hangu Street of Binhai New Area, North Chinas Tianjin, Nov , . PhotoXinhua    Tianjin will conduct universal screening in the Binhai New Area following detection of cluster infections of COVID in the areahome to nearly  million residents, according to the local government. Starting Saturday, the testing is expected to finish within three days, said the local epidemic prevention and control headquarters Friday night. The citys health commission reported four local cases early Friday, including three from one family, in the Kanhaixuan community in the Dongjiang Free Trade Zone of Binhai. The city briefly raised the coronavirus risk level for the community from medium to high, where eight cases to date including three asymptomatic ones were detected. A lockdown of the community will continue to be enforced. Around , residents have been put under centralized quarantine, Gu Qing, deputy director of the health commission, told a Friday news conference. The neighboring Shangdongwan community is also being managed as a mediumrisk area. He said further epidemiological investigations are ongoing to pinpoint exact transmission routes. Previously, tests were given to all residents in Kanhaixuan after an asymptomatic case was reported on Nov . On Thursday, after a new asymptomatic case in the community was reported, the community was classified as a mediumrisk area and a second round of coronavirus tests for residents began. The latest four patients were transported to a designated hospital for treatment. One of confirmed cases, a yearold man surnamed Yang, was hospitalized to treat a urinary infection at Teda Hospital from Nov  to . Testing before hospitalization came back negative, but a regular coronavirus test at the hospital on Thursday showed him positive. A reexamination by the citys disease control and prevention center was also positive. Teda Hospital thereafter stopped receiving new patients. To avoid gatherings, indoor public places of culture, sports and entertainment in the Kanhaixuan community have been closed, Gu said. Stores reduce their opening times. Residents of other areas in and around Tianjin should avoid going to medium and highrisk areas, said Gu. In Hebei province, four residential communities and two villages in Luannan county, Tangshan, have been locked down after the local government received notice that one of the Tianjin patients, a yearold man surnamed Yang, had traveled to the county, local authorities said. Yang drove to the county on Sunday and left on Monday. During that period, he visited relatives, had dinner with friends and shopped at various places. As of Friday, Tianjin had reported seven confirmed cases of COVID and five asymptomatic cases after a yearold storage worker was found to have come into contact with a shipment of contaminated imported food on Nov . Sections of a port in the Binhai New Area were classified as mediumrisk areas for coronavirus on Nov . The Chinese mainland also reported  imported confirmed COVID cases on Thursday, the National Health Commission said on Friday.