New firms buoy consumption
2020-07-29 09:07
Moviegoers are seen in a cinema in Hangzhou, capital of Zhejiang province, on July . Many movie theaters have reopened in China as the regulator allowed earlier this month those in lowrisk areas to resume operations. Photo by Chen ZhongqiuFor China Daily    Service providers tap pentup demand as epidemic control measures bear fruit China has seen the number of newlyregistered companies surge as firms bet big on the countrys pentup consumption demand and strong economic recovery from the COVID outbreak. Nearly , tourismrelated enterprises were newlyregistered in the nation in the first half of this year, of which more than , were added in April, sharply higher by . percent from the previous month, according to Tianyancha.com, a leading business data service firm. Leisure and entertainment companies witnessed an increase with over , karaokerelated firms and , internet cafes newlyregistered as of July . In the first six months of this year, over , indoor gamerelated companies were also newlyregistered. As the domestic epidemic prevention continued to improve, the resumption of work and production in all walks of life has been steadily progressing. Consumer demand in offline consumption such as tourism, restaurants, and hotels, which was forced to be postponed during the epidemic, began to take off, said Fu Yifu, a senior researcher at the Suning Institute of Finance. Fu added that the shortterm stimulus such as the issuance of consumer coupons in major cities also drove the recovery of the consumer market. Data from Chinas National Bureau of Statistics showed that industrial output of the countrys service sector expanded by . percent in the second quarter, reversing the decline of . percent in the first quarter. The contraction of retail sales also narrowed to . percent in the second quarter from a decline of  percent in the previous quarter. Liu Aihua, an NBS spokeswoman, noted in a news conference that the nations economy has overcome the adverse impact of the pandemic gradually in the first half of the year and demonstrated momentum in restorative growth with great resilience and vitality. Among all the recovering sectors, new online education and healthcare companies saw the most explosive growth. In the first half of this year, Tianyancha.com said over , online educationrelated companies were newlyregistered, meaning that there are more than  new online education firms every day on average. The country also added more than , healthcarerelated companies during the same period, which marked an increase of . percent yearonyear. Among them, , were in Guangdong province alone and , were located in Shandong province. The epidemic has accelerated peoples acknowledgment and acceptance for online education in China and around the world. It has moved up the sector by at least  years, said Tom Dretler, cofounder and CEO of Shorelight Education. We will definitely beef up our presence here for it brought us opportunities. As parents, students and educators learned that there was a solution that would allow them to return to school quickly, even back to normal in the future, more interactive courses or teaching models that mixed online and offline will be adopted, he said. Wang Yiming, a senior economist and a member of the National Committee of the Chinese Peoples Political Consultative Conference, said however that the economic recovery is still unbalanced, as the supply side recovered faster than the demand side while investment recovered faster than consumption. More efforts are needed to boost domestic consumption demand in the second half of this year through stabilizing employment, ensuring peoples livelihood, increasing subsidies for lowincome families and stimulating consumption policies to further boost residents willingness and ability to consume, Wang said. The consumer consumption demand can also be accelerated through the nations efforts in resuming businesses including catering, shopping malls and life service industries as well as the integration of online and offline consumption, he added.