New era of regional cooperation
2020-05-06 08:47
Instead of being hit by the pandemic, Asian countries are more united than ever before The novel coronavirus pandemic has cast doubt on the advancement of globalization. Some say that the international community will be further divided. Others predict that globalization is coming to an end. Such suggestions are irrational as we dont really have a choice but to strengthen cooperation, whether dealing with the threat of the virus or the challenges of the economic downturn. It is thus encouraging that Asian countries are strengthening international cooperation in the face of the strong headwinds. Asia was the first region to be hit by the pandemic. In addition to China, Thailand reported the first confirmed case as early as Jan , followed by Japan, the Republic of Korea, Singapore, Malaysia, and some other Asian countries. In general, cases were reported in Asia a week earlier than in European countries and the United States. The responses of Asian countries have amazed the world. By midApril, infected patients accounted for a much smaller percentage in Asia relative to some countries in other regions, indicating more effective containment of the virus. While the mortality rate in major East Asian countries has been below  percent, and even  percent in Singapore, other regions have a fatality rate of more than  percent or even  percent. Why have Asian countries been more successful in containing the virus? For one thing, Asian governments have taken this dynamic situation very seriously and responded with swift, stringent and effective measures. In addition, nurtured by the culture of putting a premium on collective interest, social discipline and public order, people in Asia have done their bits to pull through this trying time, including complying with the prevention and control measures introduced by their governments. Most importantly, the fight against this scourge has been bolstered by the timehonored tradition and fine spirit of solidarity between Asian countries, especially in times of crisis. When severe acute respiratory syndrome SARS broke out in , members of the Association of Southeast Asian NationsChina, Japan and the ROK came together to cooperate closely, sharing information and helping one another. Facing COVID, Asian countries have intensified their efforts, not just by sharing experiences and learning from one another, but also by maintaining trade, keeping supply chains intact and donating medical and other emergency supplies needed to fight the virus. Cooperation and coordination within the  and ASEANChina  mechanisms are cases in point. On Feb , the ChinaASEAN Special Foreign Ministers Meeting on fighting against COVID exchanged views on strengthening synergy between the health, quarantine, transportation and border control agencies of China and ASEAN, and discussed Chinas proposal to establish a ChinaASEAN liaison mechanism for public health emergencies as well as ChinaASEAN reserve centers for epidemiccontrol provisions. In March, China, Japan and the ROK held special videoconferences on jointly responding to COVID and agreed to, among other things, explore a joint prevention and control mechanism to effectively prevent the crossborder spread of the epidemic, seek mutually acceptable solutions to maintain necessary peopletopeople exchanges related to economic cooperation and trade and stabilize the industrial chain and supply chain of the three countries. On April , the  mechanism held a special summit and issued a joint statement outlining  goals as well as an action plan for further cooperation during and after the outbreak. These are all great achievements from the perspective of an international observer. It is fair to say that Asia has been a respectful community of shared interest and cooperation in the face of the sudden threat and subsequent challenges. For those who are overly pessimistic, the performance of Asian countries speaks volumes. Over the past decades, Asian countries have played more of a participating role in international institutions and mechanisms. Now with our region and the entire world facing not only a prominent health crisis, but also the prospect of economic recession, and the erosion of social cohesion and multilateralism, there is a strong need to improve global governance. It is imperative that countries respond resolutely and firmly rise to these challenges, and that international cooperation be enhanced. Undoubtedly Asian countries can play a constructive or leading role. First, the existing regional cooperation mechanisms should be further integrated such as ASEANChinaJapanROK, ChinaASEAN, ChinaJapanROK, and Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership RCEP. Second, regional cooperation in Asia has to cope with the political challenges that plague our times, such as populism, nationalism, power politics and great power competition. Therefore, we must seek solutions to wealth inequality, the imbalance in international trade and the global economy, immigration and cultural conflicts while building the widest consensus on the new stage of globalization among different countries, ethnic groups and classes. Finally, Asian cooperation needs solid support in various fields involving agricultural products, aquatic products, health, financial trade, tourism, cultural industries, science and technology, energy, environment and sustainable development. Flexible and pragmatic policies under a comprehensive functional cooperation mechanism must be employed to deal with problems in development. China is a big country in Asia that keeps learning and growing. It has not only gained great support from the neighboring countries but also learned our lessons. China sets a diplomatic goal of building a community with a shared future for mankind and continues to promote the Belt and Road Initiative, which is actually shared political concepts among Asian countries. A more capable and committed China will surely be an asset to Asia and the world. Over the past decades, the world has held special expectations for Asia, and most people are impressed with Asias economic rise. Yet, today, Asia represents not only a promising economic powerhouse of the global economy, but a major opportunity for the promotion of human progress with its traditions, wisdom and values, especially in the political and cultural aspects. At this critical moment in human history, will Asia overcome the challenges and achieve this? Taking a look at the wisdom and spirit shown in fighting against the virus, theres no doubt about it. Hu Zhengyue is former Chinese ambassador to Malaysia. Zhou Xinyu is a professor of the School of International Relations and Diplomacy at Beijing Foreign Studies University. The authors contributed this article to China Watch, a think tank powered by China Daily. The views do not necessarily reflect those of China Daily.