New California coronavirus case may be first instance of community spread in US health officials
2020-02-27 15:15
A computer image created by Nexu Science Communication together with Trinity College in Dublin, shows a model structurally representative of a betacoronavirus which is the type of virus linked to COVID shared with Reuters on Feb , . PhotoAgencies    SAN FRANCISCO  The US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention CDC on Wednesday confirmed a new case of coronavirus in northern California that could be a sign that the virus is spreading in a US community. The patients exposure is unknown. Its possible this could be an instance of community spread of COVID, which would be the first time this has happened in the United States, the CDC said in a statement. Community spread means spread of an illness for which the source of infection is unknown. The California Department of Public Health identified the patient as a resident of Solano County, about  km northeast of San Francisco, who is being treated in Sacramento County. The individual had no known exposure to the virus through travel or close contact with a known infected individual, said the department. The new instance is the th case that was tested positive for the novel coronavirus disease in the United States. Two previously known instances of persontoperson transmission in the country include one in Chicago, Illinois, and the other in San Benito County, California, and both people got infected after close, prolonged interaction with a family member who returned from Wuhan, China, the hardesthit city by the epidemic of the virus, according to the department. Data of the US CDC showed there are  cases confirmed in the United States, including  cases of individuals who evacuated from either Wuhan or the Diamond Princess cruise ship. The CDC has warned the American people to prepare for possible wider spread of the virus in the country. San Francisco on Tuesday declared a state of emergency for the city to heighten preparedness for the virus as more cases of the infections were reported worldwide.