Need to curb RMBs fast appreciation rate
2021-01-08 07:45
A worker counts Chinese currency renminbi at a bank in Linyi, East Chinas Shandong province. PhotoXinhua    According to the World Bank, Chinas economy is expected to grow . percent in , which will no doubt accelerate the purchase of renminbidominated assets by overseas investors, further appreciating the Chinese currency, especially as it rises above . against the US dollar. Some overseas institutions estimate that the RMB could appreciate another  percent to  or even higher against the dollar by the end of . According to the Central Economic Work Conference in December , keeping the RMBs exchange rate basically stable within an appropriate and balanced range is one of the key economic goals for . This is because China is likely to be the only major economy to overcome the impact of the pandemic and achieve positive growth in . This along with the drastically increased monetary supply from the US Federal Reserve caused the RMB to rise by nearly  percent against the dollar in . The RMBs appreciation has a certain market basis, but China still needs to take measures to ensure it does not attract excessive speculative capital. This will not only affect Chinas manufacturing exports, but may also undermine the stability and security of its financial market due to the huge amounts of capital inflows and outflows. As other countries production dipped or was suspended under the impact of the epidemic, Chinas exports grew beyond expectations in , and such trade surplus and corresponding expectations have added upward pressures on the RMB. However, the RMBs substantial appreciation in  occurred only against the US dollar. Considering that foreign trade is mostly conducted in the US dollar, and that it takes a certain period to regain the funds in the trade sector, the RMBs continuous appreciation against the US dollar will cause great exchange losses to Chinas domestic producers and traders, and the impact will be even greater if the rising commodity prices continue to raise costs. Therefore, China should avoid falling into the trap of seeing an export boom but suffering sustained losses. And instead it should stabilize the RMBs exchange rate. Chinas central bank has been making great efforts to curb the RMBs fast appreciation. Reducing the weight of the US dollar in the exchange rate index currency basket can prevent the RMBs exchange rate from being overvalued by the US dollars depreciation cycle. Maintaining the basic stability of the RMBs exchange rate is a complex and systematic project. The authorities must strengthen prudent management. Regulators should help enterprises improve risk management, guide the market to gradually adapt to the fluctuations brought about by exchange rate liberalization and actively participate in the process of the Chinese currencys internationalization.