Nations crossborder ecommerce with ASEAN accelerates
2021-09-27 09:29
An international student from Vietnam right helps deliver an ecommerce livestreaming session in the Nanning Area of the China Guangxi Pilot Free Trade Zone. PhotoXinhua    NANNINGThe past summer vacation has been especially busy for Jariya Unthong, a Thailanguage teacher based in the Guangxi Zhuang autonomous region, who has been routinely invited by a local company to livestream and peddle products to Thai consumers via ecommerce platform Lazada. Unthong is a teacher from Guangxi University in the regional capital of Nanning and has lived in the city for more than a decade. Since last year, she has been livestreaming products and training new livestreamers for Nanningheadquartered crossborder ecommerce company TusInnovation. She said that judging from her own experiences, online shopping, especially purchasing Chinamade products from online platforms, has been catching on with consumers in Thailand. Since the outbreak of the COVID pandemic, more Thai consumers have taken a liking to online shopping, she said. Our livestreaming sessions offer them quality products with a simple click on their phones and also help with epidemic prevention and control. Zhao Hui, director of TusInnovations overseas project, said the companys crossborder ecommerce business has been expanding rapidly in Southeast Asia, as seen by the surging traffic of its livestreaming sessions. When we launched livestreaming in , some of our sessions only had dozens of viewers from Southeast Asia. Now thousands of people tune in to our livestreaming sessions, Zhao said. TusInnovation is one of a large number of companies that have jumped on the bandwagon of crossborder ecommerce to tap into opportunities brought by the thriving trade between China and the Association of Southeast Asian Nations, or ASEAN. Bilateral trade between China and ASEAN reached . trillion yuan . billion in the first half of , up . percent yearonyear, the General Administration of Customs said. Guangxi is at the forefront of Chinas openingup to ASEAN thanks to its geographical proximity, and the region has seen its crossborder ecommerce sector boom in recent years on the back of strong trade with ASEAN. The freetrade zone in Guangxi reported a transaction volume of over . billion yuan in crossborder ecommerce in the first half of this year, according to official statistics. Nanning and the border city of Chongzuo in Guangxi have also been approved as Statelevel crossborder ecommerce comprehensive pilot zones to further boost the sectors development in the region. Guangxis thriving crossborder ecommerce sector is also attracting more talent from ASEAN countries. The Lazada CrossBorder EcoInnovation Service Center Nanning, established by TusInnovation in , employs over  livestreamers from Southeast Asia and has been providing training and holding contests for the livestreamers. Government officials and entrepreneurs from Guangxi expected the th ChinaASEAN Expo, scheduled in Nanning from Sept  to , to inject further impetus into its crossborder ecommerce sector. Wang Lei, secretarygeneral of the expo secretariat, said this years expo invited famous influencers to livestream the event and introduce products made in Southeast Asian countries, helping those products enter the Chinese market. The  ChinaASEAN Silk Road Crossborder Ecommerce Forum was convened on the sidelines of the expo and brought together experts and entrepreneurs to discuss how to further develop the sector and tackle challenges during the pandemic. Su Jian, deputy director of the Guangxi regional commerce department, said he hopes the forum will help boost the development of crossborder ecommerce in China and ASEAN countries, and deepen ChinaASEAN ecommerce cooperation in fields including technology, resources, talent and information. Xinhua