Nation sends special flights to bring citizens home
2020-04-03 07:49
A traveler walks out of cabins after a chartered plane operated by Xiamen Air arrives in Wuhan, Hubei province, Jan , . Photo by Wei Lai For China Daily    China has sent nine chartered planes since March to bring back , of its nationals, including students, from Iran, Italy and other countries hit hard by the global COVID pandemic, a senior official said. Speaking at a news conference in Beijing on Thursday, ViceForeign Minister Ma Zhaoxu said there are around . million Chinese students remaining in foreign countries. While the majority of them chose to stay overseas, China will take necessary measures to help bring back those who really have the need in a gradual and orderly way, and they should follow quarantine measures in China, he said. According to Tian Xuejun, viceminister of education,  Chinese students abroad have been diagnosed with COVID. They all have received good treatment, and  of them have been discharged from the hospital, Tian said. Ma said Chinese embassies and consulates have hour hotlines for Chinese students overseas, and they have been collecting and distributing health supplies for them. The Foreign Ministry has sent , health kits, including more than  million face masks, to countries with large numbers of Chinese students, Ma said. The first shipments of about , health kits will be transported on April  to  embassies and consulates in  countriessuch as Italy, South Korea, France and Germanyand will be distributed to Chinese students, a Civil Aviation Administration official told reporters. As of Wednesday, the administration had sent  chartered flights transferring  medical experts and personnel and , metric tons of epidemic prevention materials, said Lyu Erxue, deputy head of the Civil Aviation Administration of China. The flights were to  countries, including the United States, the United Kingdom, Iran, Iraq, Pakistan, Italy, Serbia, Japan and South Korea, he said. Lyu said that the administration has drastically reduced the number of international flights in order to avoid the pandemic being imported to China. A minimum number of flights are being maintained to meet the needs of Chinese citizens overseas, especially Chinese students in foreign countries, he added. He said that  Chinese and foreign airlines currently have regular flights from China to  destinations in  countries. The total number of international flights every week is no more than , he said. China sent a specially chartered plane to the UK on Thursday to bring back about  Chinese students, he added. Mo Jingxi and Wang Qingyun contributed to this story.