Nation seeks more unity in COVID, poverty fights
2020-09-17 09:28
A member of the Chinese medical expert team offers suggestion on the prevention of the COVID epidemic at a hospital in Conakry, Guinea, Aug , . PhotoXinhua    China is willing to step up cooperation with other countries in controlling the COVID pandemic, a senior official of the Communist Party of China said. It is part of a broader effort to curb global poverty and fight other challenges facing developing countries, said Huang Kunming, a member of the Political Bureau of the CPC Central Committee and head of the committees publicity department. He made the remarks at the opening ceremony of the Forum on  Sustainable Development Goals and Chinas Poverty Reduction Experience, a threeday online event held by China Global Television Network Think Tank that began being aired by the State broadcaster on Wednesday. The event, whose  attendees include politicians from  countries and regions as well as heads of international organizations and think tanks, came as the world marks the th anniversary of the United Nations this year and races to reach the UNs  Sustainable Development Goals, which include a target to eliminate extreme poverty worldwide in a decade. While addressing the forum via a video link, Huang said sharing the nations antipoverty experience at this juncture has great significance. China will end domestic poverty by the end of this year, which makes the nation a frontrunner in reaching the  goal in poverty reduction, Huang said. He said Chinas experience showed survival and development are the most principal human rights. Poverty relief is a noble and practical job that should be carried out in line with each nations situations, and entails involvement of the entire society and global cooperation. Huang said China wishes to work with other countries to improve the global public health system and contain the virus that has posed new challenges to global poverty reduction efforts. Data from the State Council Leading Group Office of Poverty Alleviation and Development show that the impoverished population in China has plummeted over the last eight years, from . million in late  to . million by the end of last year. It is probably one of the most successful stories of modern times, said Leslie Maasdorp, vicepresident and chief financial officer at New Development Bank, a multilateral bank established by the BRICS countriesBrazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa. He said the fast economic growth that came after China embraced reforms and a market economy  years ago has underpinned the nations extraordinary achievement in lifting so many out of rural poverty. Even though economic growth has slowed down in the wake of the pandemic, the poverty relief targets are still hardwired into the governments plans, he said.