Nation helps BRI regions tourism recovery
2021-11-05 09:47
A tourist poses for photos at the Grand Palace in Bangkok, Thailand, on Nov , . Thailand on Monday reopened to vaccinated visitors from more than  countries and regions amid efforts to revive its pandemicbattered economy.?PhotoXinhua    While the rampant novel coronavirus pandemic has been a heavy blow to tourism in nations involved in the Belt and Road Initiative, China has taken positive measures to help relieve their pressures, aiming to balance control and prevention work and the development of domestic travel markets. A recent report by the World Tourism Alliance and Beijing International Studies University in late October shows that the number of travelers to BRI countries and regions was halved to  million in  from the previous year. For perspective, that number is roughly  percent of s figure. Some countries that rely heavily on the tourism industry, such as Thailand and the Philippines, have suffered the most due to the pandemic, the report said. Island nations, including the Maldives and Singapore, saw international travel decline by  percent on average last year. The report said that strict control and quarantine policieswith time spans ranging from seven to  days, depending on countries rulesthat affect international travelers are the main causes of plunging tourist numbers. Zou Tongqian, dean of the China Academy of Culture and Tourism at Beijing International Studies University, said that to solve the problem, BRI nations must try to find a way to balance the need for prevention and control work and tourism development. These nations have so far shown different attitudes toward opening their borders, depending on how doing so will benefit them, he said. China has taken its people and travelers health as the priority, so its understandable that it still maintains quite a strict border management policy. Meanwhile, to some countries involved in the BRI, huge economic losses brought on by the pandemic have made them eager to open their borders. It depends on whether a nation is giving shortterm consideration on recovering its economy or longterm thought for safety, he added. Though China maintains strict border management, it has advised BRI countries and regions on ways to develop highquality tourism strategies and has continued to channel investment to these areas, he said. According to the alliances report, China has placed emphasis on developing the online tourism industry to maintain peoples passion for travel through methods such as livestreaming and offering consumers ecoupons. Such methods have also been applied at some global events. For example, at the th ChinaASEAN Expo, held in Nanning, Guangxi Zhuang autonomous region in November last year, foreign exhibitors from BRI countries were invited to introduce their products online to Chinese people and consumers worldwide. Nongovernmental organizations in China are also working with BRI nations. Qunar, an online travel agency, said that it has cooperated with some airlines and embassies of BRI countries such as Russia and Singapore to livestream their epidemic control policies and give guidance to Chinese people who have traveled to these nations. Deng Qingbo, deputy head of the China International Development Cooperation Agency, said at a news conference late last month that the BRI is an important platform on which to build a community with a shared future. Weve initiated many assisting and cooperation programs with countries and regions involved in the BRI. Though some of these programs have been affected by the novel coronavirus, they have not been closed or suspended, he said. Chinas nonfinancial direct investment to these countries and regions has increased by . percent amid the pandemic yearonyear. Zou, the dean of the culture and tourism academy, said that while the worlds tourism experts and industry insiders hold various opinions on crossborder travel, he is confident that more and more BRI countries and regions will reopen their travel markets in the near future. Some of them are already doing so because of economic pressures, as people have maintained strong passion for taking international trips, he said. As long as there is a cure for the pandemic, the tourism market will bounce back quickly.