Nation eyes full rebound of air travel
2021-01-13 08:47
A view of the Airbus Aneo aircraft in Tianjin. PhotoCHINA DAILY    Chinas civil aviation authority will adjust policies to boost the orderly resumption of international flights and improve international air cargo capacity this year, according to a conference report released by the Civil Aviation Administration of China on Tuesday. The nation will step up measures to ensure efficient flight schedules for domestic and international airlines, upgrade ChinaUS and ChinaEurope civil aviation cooperation and gradually loosen air travel policies in the special administrative regions of Hong Kong and Macao. Due to the COVID pandemic, the global aviation market is estimated to return to its  levels by , according to the International Air Transport Association. Thanks to efficient epidemic prevention and control measures, Chinas aviation market quickly rebounded and was the top performer in the global market last year, with domestic air travel reaching . percent of its  level in the fourth quarter. The country handled  million air passenger trips last year, marking the worlds secondlargest civil aviation volume for  consecutive years, according to the report. Ouyang Jie, a professor at the Civil Aviation University of China, said the nation could pivot the structure of its international airline network during the pandemic. We should concentrate our international aviation hubs in firsttier cities like Beijing, Shanghai and Guangzhou. Beijing, in particular, is supposed to vigorously develop international air transportation instead of serving domestic passengers. Its the right time to make structural adjustments during the pandemic, he said. By last year, China had signed bilateral air transportation agreements with  countries, including  involved in the Belt and Road Initiative, the report said. We can further expand international air travel to island nations in the South Pacific under the BRI that have rich, unexploited tourism resources, Ouyang said. The aviation authority plans to boost the domestic aviation market by developing regional airlines and stimulating air travel demand in secondand thirdtier cities, the report said. Strengthening cooperation with other transportation companies and boosting integrative development with local economies are also encouraged. In terms of developing the market during the th FiveYear Plan , Ouyang suggested evolving air transportation in regards to parcel delivery, especially in central and western destinations. Most places in the western part of China dont enjoy exemption from postage. Lowcost air cargo is necessary to support people in the region so they can receive their goods in time, which simultaneously helps poverty alleviation, Ouyang said. On the other hand, combined airway and railway transport is a new trend, as it is being added to the countrys new comprehensive transportation plan, he said. It is expected that by the end of the th FiveYear Plan period, the volume of Chinas civil aviation transportation may surpass the United States to become No  in the world. The administration will improve services in aircraft maintenance, ground support and aviation materials to build China into a strong aviation country. In the past five years, the number of civil aviation aircraft in China hit ,, and  new air routes were formed. The total distance covered by domestic air routes during that period reached , kilometers, up , km from the period during the th FiveYear Plan .