Wuhan calls for more material help to deal with virus
2020-01-25 19:48
Pictures uploaded to social media on Jan ,  by the Central Hospital of Wuhan show medical staff attending to patients, in Wuhan, China. PhotoSina Weibo    Although huge amounts of medical resources are pouring into Wuhan, the center of the new viral outbreak, the local government on Saturday called for more material support such as masks and protective clothing. Were facing a particularly serious public safety and health emergency. Materials for protection and medical treatment are in urgent need, Hu Yinghai, deputy director of the Department of Civil Affairs of Hubei, said at a news conference. As of Saturday noon, the countrys central medical reserve had sent , protection suits and , pairs of medical gloves to Wuhan. It also helped to arrange the purchase of  million masks, , protection suits and , pairs of goggles for the city, according to the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology. From social donations, the Hubei Charity Federation had received more than . million masks and other materials for epidemic prevention and control by Friday midnight. The organization also received donated funds of more than  million yuan . million, Hu said. These materials have been allocated to hospitals and some public transport stations, and the funds will be delivered and used as soon as possible, he said. However, these materials are not enough. Well make every effort to organize and mobilize the whole society, at home and abroad, to carry out special donations of emergency medical materials and relevant medicines, Hu said. Some materials are in urgent need, such as medical protective clothing, the N masks, medical masks, protective masks, positive pressure isolation clothing, goggles and disinfectant, he said. Hubei Charity Federation and the Red Cross Society of Hubei are designated to receive donations. Materials unrelated to the epidemic prevention and control work will not be accepted at the moment. The public can supervise the usage of the donated materials, and the provincial headquarters of the epidemic prevention and control work is the unified organization to allocate the materials to hospitals and other medical treatment institutions, Hu said. Since Friday, traffic control authorities in Hubei have taken measures to speed up the flow of necessary medical personnel and materials, such as giving a green light to the transportation of emergency materials.