Myopia rate among young students declines
2021-10-26 22:26
A primary school student gets a vision test in Handan, Hebei province, during the summer holiday in . Photo by Hao QunyingFor China Daily    China has basically achieved its targets of reducing young students myopia rate despite the adverse impact of the COVID epidemic, a senior education official said on Tuesday. The myopia rate among schoolchildren, which stood at . percent in , was reduced to . percent in  thanks to comprehensive measures to curb the problem among schoolchildren, said Wang Dengfeng, head of the Ministry of Educations department of physical, health and arts education. Although the  rate increased to . percent due to the epidemic, it was still around  percentage point lower than , showing that the measures taken were effective, he said. The myopia rate among schoolchildren should be reduced by a . percentage point every year on the basis of the  level, according to a guideline issued by the Ministry of Education, National Health Commission and six other departments. The percentage of primary school students with myopia should be capped below  percent by , with less than  percent of middle school and  percent of high school students nearsighted, the guideline said. Guidelines have been issued to reduce students excessive academic burdens, increase the importance of physical and aesthetic education, control the use of mobile phones and make sure students have enough sleep, he said. The ministry organized an expert team on myopia prevention and control in , and the team has conducted more than , promotion events at schools since then, he said. Wang said the key difficulty in efforts to improve students eyesight was the overemphasis on students academic performance while overlooking their physical and aesthetic abilities. Only through continued reform on evaluation of students, schools, education authorities and local governments can they become truly motivated in myopia prevention and control work, he added. Wu Liangyou, deputy director of the National Health Commissions disease prevention and control bureau, said despite the progress, the myopia rate among younger children is still serious. For example, yearold children in all provincial regions reported myopia rates higher than  percent, with the highest reaching . percent last year, he said. Moreover, around  percent of schoolchildren and . percent of high school students with myopia last year have developed serious conditions. Based on the commissions monitoring, around  percent of students had not met the national requirement of working out two hours every day, and  percent of them have more than two hours of screen time per day last year, he added. Jiang Qingguo, an official at the General Administration of Sport, said while more emphasis has been placed on PE in schools, there is a serious shortage of PE teachers in the country. Local authorities have hired famous retired athletes for these positions, and they have been wellreceived by schools, students and parents, he said.