Most new COVID cases in Heilongjiang
2021-01-28 09:05
A police officer helps distribute food to residents of a Shanghai community put under closed management on Wednesday due to a new confirmed COVID case detected on Tuesday. YIN LIQINCHINA NEWS SERVICE    The Chinese mainland recorded  new locally transmitted confirmed cases of COVID on Tuesday, the lowest daily number since Jan . The lions share came from Heilongjiang province. Data from the provincial health commission showed  new confirmed cases were detected, with  in Harbin, the provincial capital, and  in Wangkui county in Suihua. The province also detected  asymptomatic cases on Tuesday, all in the two areas. Six areas in Suihua, including Wangkui, will continue to conduct strict lockdown for another seven days, officials said on Wednesday. Over the past seven days, residents in these areas, where positive cases were reported, have stayed at home in selfquarantine, Guo Jianmin, director of the citys health commission, said. To lower the risk of virus spread, experts advised that the quarantine period should be prolonged. As the number of COVID cases has soared in Heilongjiang, local enterprises are continuing epidemic prevention and control efforts, including beefing up testing capacity. Twelve white, tentlike inflatable facilities have been built at a laboratory in Harbin operated by Shenzhenbased biotech company BGI Genomics. They will boost the labs testing capacity to more than , tubes of samples a day, local media reported on Wednesday. Meanwhile, workers at Harbin Dahuanghuanyu New Technology are busy producing a new disinfectant. It contains more environmentally friendly ingredients without an unpleasant or irritating odor, said Sun Zhichao, head of the companys factory. The companys daily output has increased by  percent to meet demand and guarantee supplies. As of Tuesday, there were  confirmed cases and  asymptomatic carriers in Heilongjiang. Neighboring Jilin province recorded  new confirmed cases on Tuesday, driving its caseload to , the provincial health commission said. A work team led by Gao Guangbin, deputy Party secretary of Jilin, has arrived in Tonghua, which was heavily affected by the recent outbreak, Jilin Daily reported. As of Tuesday, there were  confirmed cases and  asymptomatic carriers in the city. The provincial finance department is promoting a subsidy policy for medical and epidemic prevention workers in major affected areas. Medical workers on the front line will receive a subsidy of  yuan  per day and the others will receive  yuan per day, double the national standard, said Wang Huiqun, deputy director of the department. Beijing recorded four new confirmed cases and one asymptomatic carrier on Tuesday. All of the confirmed cases were in a residential community in Daxing district, where a number of cases have emerged lately, the capitals health commission said. To further curb the risk of imported cases, Beijing said people from lowrisk areas in the country who plan to visit Beijing from Thursday to March  should bring a negative nucleic acid test result taken within seven days of their arrival, said Xu Hejian, spokesman for the Beijing municipal government, adding that people from mediumand highrisk areas and ones where communities are under lockdown management should not visit Beijing during the period unless they get approval from their provincial virus control and prevention department. In Shanghai, one new local case was detected on Tuesday. There are clear epidemiological links between all  locally transmitted COVID cases in Shanghai, and none of them contracted the virus from an unknown contact, said Wu Jinglei, director of the citys health commission. Hebei province recorded seven new confirmed cases on Tuesday, the second day with a singledigit rise since Jan . Du Juan in Beijing, Zhou Wenting in Shanghai and Han Junhong in Changchun contributed to this story.