More resilience needed to withstand shocks
2020-03-13 07:05
A novel coronavirus patient left who has recovered goes to a hospital for further checkups in Wuhan, capital of Hubei province, on March . Photo by Wang JingChina Daily    Its still too early to claim that the turbulence in global financial markets this week will lead to a major meltdown, but the selloffs do point to the increasing external risks facing the Chinese economy. The Dow Jones Industrial Average slumped . percent to close at . on Wednesday, falling altogether by more than  percent from its peak on Feb . The SP  and the Nasdaq both plunged by around  percent on Wednesday. In contrast, the domestic Ashare market has remained relatively sound. Although the benchmark Shanghai Composite Index fell by . percent on Monday, it gained . percent on Tuesday, and fell . percent to close at . points on Thursday. If global financial markets continue to sour, it will definitely affect major economies and in turn spill over to put pressure on the Chinese economy, which has already slowed in the first quarter due to the novel coronavirus epidemic. While policymakers and economists alike are trying to come up with measures to bolster growth this year, over the longer term, it is a must for the country to systemically build up its economic resilience against periodic shocks. Since late January, the country has locked down Wuhan, capital of Hubei province, and reduced economic activity and travel to contain transmission of the virus. As a result, growth may slow to  percent or even lower in the first quarter, economists have estimated. The manufacturing Purchasing Managers Index, which reflects activity expectations, slumped to . in February, down from  in January. As statistics show, the countrys novel coronaviruscombating initiative is making solid headway and the number of confirmed patients infected with the virus has been declining steadily. The manufacturing PMI reading in March may improve, but it will take some time for operations to return to preepidemic levels. The serious economic damage brought by the virus, trade restrictions from other countries and the threat of a global financial crisis should remind policymakers of the need to improve the resiliency of the economy against unexpected shocks to prepare for rainy days in the years to come. Over the past two decades, the Chinese economy has expanded at a relatively brisk pace. But at the same time, it has frequently been forced to cope with shocks triggered by unexpected contingencies, such as the  Asian financial crisis, the  severe acute respiratory syndrome epidemic, the  earthquake in Sichuan province, the global financial crisis in  and , trade disputes with other nations and the current novel coronavirus epidemic. Those shocks have all caused sharp shortterm economic slowdowns, posing a severe challenge to the countrys job market, corporate sector and financial system. If they had not been properly tackled, Chinas economic, financial and even social stability would have been put at risk. Similar shocks may continue to occur in the coming decades. This is not panicmongering, but a real possibility, considering the generally high debt level in many major economies that may trigger financial crises, rising global temperatures that may activate natural disasters and potentially lead to more frequent epidemics and intensified geopolitical disputes in some parts of the world that may ultimately evolve into conflicts and even wars in worst case scenarios. China has shown strong resilience in the current battle against the novel coronavirus. After the initial hesitation and chaos after the virus was found to be spreading rapidly in Wuhan, authorities quickly took targeted and decisive measuressuch as the lockdown of Wuhan, reduction of human movement and mobilization of medical staff from all over the country, including traditional Chinese medicine practitionersto improve the efficacy of the fight against the virus. So far, the number of confirmed cases has sharply declined across China and the country is now able to send medical teams and materials to help other countries control the epidemic. One of the important lessons for China this time is that its public hospitals have played a decisive role in containing the spread of the outbreak. Chinas private hospitals account for  percent of the countrys total, according to the National Health Commission. But most of them are technically unable to handle such a big challenge as the current epidemic. And others, although technically capable, have declined to participate. Public hospitals have served as the backbone in the battle against the outbreak, with thousands of brave doctors and nurses from public hospitals answering the call of the central authorities to rush to Wuhan and other parts of Hubei to help contain the spread of the epidemic. Without their participation, the situation would not have improved so fast. As the country reforms its public hospital system, many public hospitalsespecially at the grassroots levelhave been sold to private investors. But the country must further improve the operation of key public hospitals, increase fiscal inputs and devise appropriate policies to help them improve their efficiency and prevent brain drain, because they cannot merely satisfy daily public demand for highquality health services, but must also play an indispensable role in combating the spread of epidemics. Similarly, enterprises in the public sector at large should be reassessed as they can also play a major role in times of crisis, such as epidemic and disaster relief. During the global financial crisis of  and , for instance, Chinas Stateowned enterprises made important contributions to the countrys efforts to stabilize economic growth, the job market and commodity prices. While the operational efficiency of State enterprises should be improved, their strength should not be weakened in the countrys economic restructuring. The top leadership agreed at the th National Congress of the Communist Party of China in  that there must be no irresolution about working to consolidate and develop the public sector, although the nonpublic sector should also be supported and the market should play the decisive role in resource allocation. Some economists championing laissez faire doctrines who have quite a big influence in China have argued for using marketoriented reforms to replace Stateowned enterprises with private ones, citing the formers low efficiency and high utilization of economic resources. Policymakers should not be misled by such onesided arguments and should instead steadily push forward SOE reforms to improve their operational efficiency while maintaining their indispensible role in offsetting unexpected shocks to the national economy. The role of the market should certainly be respected. The nation has made it a policy orientation to ensure the market plays a decisive role in resource allocation. But that does not mean all public sector players should be driven out of the market and replaced with private ones.