More evidence shows COVID circulating outside China earlier than previously believed
2021-01-14 13:31
PhotoAgencies    BEIJING  The health department of the state of Espirito Santo, Brazil, announced on Tuesday that the presence of IgG antibodies, specific to SARSCoV virus, was detected in serum samples from December . The health department said that , serum samples had been collected between December  and June  from patients suspected of infection with dengue and chikungunya. With the samples analyzed, IgG antibodies were detected in  people, of whom  cases suggested the presence of the novel coronavirus in the state before Brazil announced its first officiallyconfirmed case on Feb , . One of the cases was collected on Dec , . The health department said that it takes about  days for a patient to reach detectable levels of IgG after an infection, so the infection could have occurred between late November and early December . The Brazilian Ministry of Health has instructed the state to conduct indepth epidemiological investigations for further confirmation. The findings in Brazil are the latest among studies worldwide that have added to growing evidence that COVID silently circulated outside China earlier than previously thought. Researchers from the University of Milan have recently found that a woman in the northern Italian city was infected with COVID in November , according to media reports. Through two different techniques on skin tissue, the researchers identified in a biopsy of a yearold woman the presence of RNA gene sequences of the SARSCoV virus dating back to November , according to Italian regional daily newspaper LUnione Sarda. There are, in this pandemic, cases in which the only sign of COVID infection is that of a skin pathology, Raffaele Gianotti, who coordinated the research, was quoted by the newspaper as saying. I wondered if we could find evidence of SARSCoV in the skin of patients with only skin diseases before the officially recognized epidemic phase began, said Gianotti, adding we found the fingerprints of COVID in the skin tissue. Based on global data, this is the oldest evidence of the presence of the SARSCoV virus in a human being, said the report. In late April , Michael Melham, mayor of Belleville in the US state of New Jersey, said that he had tested positive for COVID antibodies and believed he had contracted the virus in November , despite a doctors reported assumption that what Melham had experienced was just a flu. In France, scientists found a man was infected with COVID in December , roughly a month before the first cases were officially recorded in Europe. Citing a doctor at Avicenne and JeanVerdier hospitals near Paris, BBC News reported in May  that the patient must have been infected between  and  December , as coronavirus symptoms take between five and  days to appear. In Spain, researchers at the University of Barcelona, one of the countrys most prestigious universities, detected the presence of the virus genome in waste water samples collected on March , , the university said in a statement in June . In Italy, research by the National Cancer Institute in Milan, published in November , showed that . percent of the  healthy volunteers who participated in a lung cancer screening trial between September  to March  had developed COVID antibodies well before February  when the first official case was recorded in the country, with four cases from the study dating to the first week of October , which means those people had been infected in September . On Nov , , a study by the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention CDC found that COVID was likely in the United States as early as midDecember , weeks before the virus was first identified in China. According to the study published online in the journal Clinical Infectious Diseases, CDC researchers tested blood samples from , routine blood donations collected by the American Red Cross from Dec ,  to Jan ,  for antibodies specific to the novel coronavirus. COVID infections may have been present in the U.S. in December , about a month earlier than the countrys first official case on Jan , , the CDC scientists wrote. These findings are yet another illustration of how complicated it is to solve the scientific puzzle of virus source tracing. Historically, the place where a virus was first reported often turned out not to be that of its origin. The HIV infection, for instance, was first reported by the United States, yet it might also be possible that the virus did not owe its origin to the United States. And more and more evidence proves that the Spanish Flu did not originate in Spain. As far as COVID is concerned, being the first to report the virus does not mean that the virus had its origin in the Chinese city of Wuhan. Regarding these studies, the World Health Organization WHO said it will take every detection in France, in Spain, in Italy very seriously, and we will examine each and every one of them. We will not stop from knowing the truth on the origin of the virus, but based on science, without politicizing it or trying to create tension in the process, WHO DirectorGeneral Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said late November .