More counties escape poverty
2020-03-03 09:38
A herdswoman from a cooperative milks sheep in Rutog county of Ngari prefecture, Southwest Chinas Tibet autonomous region, Aug , . PhotoXinhua    CPC official urges efforts to be made to overcome coronavirus impact on areas All impoverished counties in nine provinciallevel areas have recovered as of February, helping China get one step closer to completing this years goal of eliminating poverty nationwide. The areas include Chongqing, Tibet autonomous region and the provinces of Hebei, Heilongjiang and Hainan, according to the State Council Leading Group Office of Poverty Alleviation and Development. In general, in order for a county to no longer be considered impoverished, its poverty rate must be below  percent. For western China, where there are more deeply povertystricken areas, the rate must be below  percent. We must resolutely win the fight against poverty, while unrelentingly preventing and controlling the epidemic in povertystricken areas, Hu Chunhua, member of the Political Bureau of the CPC Central Committee and leader of the State Council poverty alleviation group, said during a news conference on Thursday. He said efforts should be made to overcome the impact of the novel coronavirus outbreak on the countrys poverty alleviation work. Such measures will include prioritizing employment support for poor laborers, solving difficulties in sales of agricultural and livestock products in poor areas and supporting poverty alleviation industries in their efforts to resume production, Hu said. As of the end of last year, China had about . million impoverished rural residents, down by  million yearonyear, according to the National Bureau of Statistics. All the rest will be relieved from poverty this year, according to a circular released last month. Now that all the counties in Hebei have shaken off poverty, policies for supporting their development will be continued in an effort to consolidate the achievements and prevent the emergence or reemergence of poverty in those areas, according to a notice issued on Saturday by the provincial government. The notice said that the provinces last  impoverished counties and one district were removed from the poverty list in February. Hebei is one of the provinces where poverty is abundant. In the past, it had  poor counties with nearly  million people living in poverty, according to a report by Hebei Daily. One of those counties was Fuping, located in a mountainous area in Baoding, about  kilometers southwest of Beijing. In , the county had nearly , people living in poverty, with a poverty rate of  percent, according to the local government. By the end of last year, the number of impoverished people had dropped to , and the poverty rate had fallen to . percent thanks to years of efforts developing suitable industries, including ecotourism and Chinese medicinal planting. Life has become much easier for us, said yearold Tang Zongxiu, who has lived his whole life in Luotuowan village in Fuping. Her familys income has seen a big jump in the past few years, either from working at locally developing companies or from subletting land. In , the average annual income of residents in the county reached , yuan ,, up from , yuan in , according to the local government.