More cases found in Jilin, Heilongjiang
2021-01-19 13:34
A staff member disinfects the wall of a building in?Tonghuas Dongchang district,?Jilin province, on Jan , . PhotoXinhua    Jilin province reported  new locally transmitted confirmed cases of COVID and  asymptomatic carriers on Monday, the provincial Health Commission reported on Tuesday. Thirtyfour of the confirmed cases and  asymptomatic cases were reported in Tonghua, officials said at a news conference on Tuesday in the city. Late on Monday, Tonghuas Dongchang district was designated a mediumrisk area for COVID. The confirmed caseload in the province reached  as local transmission followed the first asymptomatic carriers returning from neighboring Heilongjiang province. Of the  cases,  patients are in critical condition. Jilin on Monday designated  areas as mediumrisk areas, bringing the number of mediumrisk areas in the province to , Peoples Daily reported. Heilongjiang reported  new confirmed cases and  asymptomatic carriers on Monday, its Health Commission said on Tuesday. Twentythree confirmed cases and  asymptomatic carriers were detected in Suihua citys Wangkui county, where the first asymptomatic carrier associated with the recent outbreak was reported on Jan . Starting on Tuesday, residents in Wangkui must stay at home in selfquarantine, according to a statement by the citys epidemic prevention and control headquarters. Other than seeking medical treatment, all residents should stay at home and conduct no outside activities, the statement said. No private vehicles are allowed on the roads. Community staff members and volunteers will help residents purchase daily necessities during their home quarantines. Of the  asymptomatic carriers reported in Heilongjiang,  were in the capital city. A yearold resident surnamed Wang tested positive for coronavirus on Sunday when he sought medical treatment at Hulan District Hospital of Traditional Chinese Medicine. During tests of Wangs close contacts,  other residents that live in the same building also came back positive.