Worlds worst measles outbreak kills over , in DR Congo
2020-01-08 21:55
Health workers vaccinate a girl against measles at a school in eastern Congolese town of Goma, Democratic Republic of Congo, Dec , . PhotoAgencies    More than , people in the Democratic Republic of Congo have died of measles since an outbreak started last year, according to the World Health Organization. Calling it the worlds worst measles epidemic, WHO has asked for more funding to stop the outbreak, adding around , suspected cases have been reported since January . We are doing our utmost to bring this epidemic under control. Yet to be truly successful, we must ensure no child faces the unnecessary risk of death from a disease that is easily preventable by a vaccine. We urge our donor partners to urgently step up their assistance, said Dr. Matshidiso Moeti, WHO Regional Director for Africa. While more than  million children under the age of  across the country were vaccinated in , in some areas routine vaccination coverage remains low and  percent of reported measles cases are in children over , the UN agency said. WHO said the epidemic has been aggravated by low vaccination coverage among vulnerable communities, malnutrition, weak public health systems and outbreaks of other epidemicprone diseases. This is in addition to poor infrastructure that has frustrated healthcare access for vulnerable populations and insecurity that has hampered response in some areas. So far the organization has mobilized . million, but a further  million is required for a sixmonth plan to extend vaccination to children between six and  years of age. The funds will also be used to reinforce elements of outbreak response beyond vaccination, including improving treatment, health education, community engagement, the health system, epidemiological surveillance and response coordination. Dr. Amde Prosper Djiguimd, officer in charge of the WHO office in DR Congo, emphasized the need for more funding. We recognize the governments engagement in efforts to end the outbreak and we are grateful for the generosity of our donors. But we still need to do more, Djiguimd said. Thousands of Congolese families need our help to lift the burden of this prolonged epidemic from their backs. We cannot achieve this without adequate finances. The WHO is yet to completely contain the Ebola virus disease that has claimed over , lives since its outbreak in August . In the last weekly report covering the period from Dec  to , WHO reported  new confirmed cases of Ebola in North Kivu province.