Worlds Supermarket in Yiwu springs back to postepidemic life
2020-04-13 09:22
A merchant from Tunisia shops at the Yiwu International Trade Market in Yiwu, Zhejiang province, on Feb . PhotoXinhua    HANGZHOUAfter a short hiatus in business due to COVID, the Yiwu International Trade Market, the worlds leading small commodities market, has sprung back to life as the pandemic has almost been subdued in China. Located in the eastern Chinese province of Zhejiang, the city of Yiwu, home to over  million medium, smalland microsized firms, sells commodities to about  countries and regions every year and is therefore dubbed the Worlds Supermarket. The bustling trade market fell into temporary closure and stagnation due to the outbreak. Now about  percent of stalls in the market have reopened to customers, thanks to the effective pandemicprevention measures. Purchasers and merchants with authorized QR codes and valid identity cards can enter the market after having their body temperature checked and wearing masks. Yu Lingli, , is a native of Yiwu and has a small doll shop in the trade market. I have run this shop for  years. My customers are from all around the world, Yu said. As a gridbased community worker, she is also responsible for testing the body temperature of over  neighboring shopowners. My Italian customer sent me a message to postpone an order. I totally understand it, Yu said. Pointing at a Chinese doll on the shelf, she said My Japanese customers like it very much. The orders for the doll have been scheduled for June. Small and microsized firms and individual businesses are the main sectors in the country to absorb migrant workers. However, they are also among the groups worst affected by the coronavirus epidemic. During the backtowork season, a lot of migrant workers have been unable to return to work, and thus, many enterprises in Yiwu are short of employees. To solve the problem, Yiwu has sent  working groups to Chinas major labor exporting provinces such as Henan, Anhui, Jiangxi and Yunnan to recruit new employees. The city has even arranged special buses and trains to ferry employees back to Yiwu as soon as possible. Since March , we have also launched regular shuttle buses to pick up workers from mediumand lowrisk areas in epidemicstricken Hubei province, said Lin Yi, secretary of the Yiwu municipal Party committee. Guo Yan, , a furniture salesperson, is one of the beneficiaries of the recruitment moves. She returned to Yiwu in early March from her hometown in the hinterland of Northwest Chinas Ningxia Hui autonomous region. The epidemic will finally come to an end. Im happy to return to my work, said Guo. Data from the Yiwu foreign affairs office show that about  percent of the , resident foreign businessmen are Arab. In the past  days, more than , Arabic translators have returned to Yiwu from as far as more than , km away with help from the city government. The Yiwu municipal government has spent more than  billion yuan  million handling the epidemicrelated challenges local enterprises face during this hard period. Although the epidemic has caused some troubles, the governments supporting policies give us a lot of confidence, said Wang Wenjun, chairman of the board of Sumsoar Group. In the past two months, my company has received about  million yuan in tax reductions. Shopowner Yu said As long as we work hard, we will make money. Living a normal life unaffected by the epidemic is our greatest joy. Xinhua