MFA  Foreign Nationals Infected in China,  Cured
2020-02-06 00:00
The Ministry of Foreign Affairs MFA held its daily briefing online on Wednesday and Ms. Hua Chunying, a spokesperson, answered questions from Chinese and overseas journalists.One question was On Tuesday you talked about the number of confirmed cases involving foreign nationals in China and the outbreakrelated information China is providing to the foreign community. Can you update us on the number of such cases? What other measures will China take to address the concerns of foreign nationals in the country?Hua said that China takes the life and health of Chinese and foreign nationals as a top priority, and has mobilized enormous medical supplies and daily necessities to fight the outbreak. According to the competent authority, by midday  February,  foreign nationals in China have been confirmed of novel coronavirus pneumonia. Among them,  have been cured and discharged from hospital while the other  are being treated under isolation.Hua also said that the Chinese government takes seriously the reasonable concerns and demands of foreign nationals in the country, especially those in Wuhan, and has adopted effective measures to address them. As has been said, the provinces and departments concerned are providing timely, multilingual information and advising foreign nationals on epidemic prevention and control.The MFA and various local governments have held briefings for embassies and consulates in China and promptly responded to their concerns. Hubei Province has stepped up prevention and treatment concerning foreign nationals, and provided guidance and services to foreign patients in accordance with the requirement of tiered diagnosis and treatment, and communitybased prevention and control. Other places in China are also ratcheting up protection and assistance for foreign nationals. Many provinces and cities are caring for the foreign community in their jurisdiction and helping them with their daily needs and epidemic prevention and treatment. Many foreign nationals have expressed appreciation for the assistance they have received. China will continue to take good care of them in the same way as we take care of our own citizens and make sure they have good living and working conditions.