Manufacturers vying to keep up with orders
2020-03-24 10:47
A welder works on a concretemaking equipment at a workshop of CITIC Heavy Industries Co Ltd in Luoyang, Central Chinas Henan province, on Feb . Photo by Huang ZhengweiFor China Daily    Central authorities, domestic companies stepping up efforts to meet worldwide demand for Chinamade products Liu Chuchun and his team have been busier than ever for more than a month. Like millions of people involved in the manufacturing sector in China, they are facing the unprecedented challenges of resuming work while strengthening efforts to prevent further infections amid the novel coronavirus outbreak. As head of Lenovo Group Ltds plant in Shenzhen, Guangdong province, Liu is in charge of restarting production as soon as possible so that the plants personal computers and servers can continue being exported to over  countries and regions on schedule.Lenovo is the worlds largest PC maker, and its Shenzhen plant is at the forefront of maintaining the companys global supply chain. The efforts by Lenovo to restart production while ensuring the health and safety of its employees offer a glimpse into the resilience of Chinese manufacturing. After hard work, we hit full capacity earlier this month, Liu said. Currently, about , workers are assembling components at the Shenzhen plant, with products supplied to more than  multinationals including US tech heavyweights Microsoft and IBM, Frances La Poste as well as Japanese automaker Toyota. Lenovo is among a growing number of Chinese manufacturers that have resumed operations. As markets worry that Chinamade products may not be able to meet global demand amid the coronavirus outbreak, the central authorities and domestic companies are stepping up efforts to ease such concerns. As of March , with the exception of the hardesthit Hubei province, more than  percent of large companies across China had resumed normal production and over  percent of company employees had returned to work, according to the nations top industry regulator. Currently, companies and related supply chain entities are resuming operations in an orderly manner. The nations industrial economy is back on track in a positive direction, said Xin Guobin, viceminister of industry and information technology, at a news conference in Beijing recently. More targeted measures will be rolled out to help firms solve problems. We will also step up efforts to collaborate with key industries and related supply chains in different regions to resume operations, he said. Yang Yuanqing, chairman of Lenovo, said The epidemic outbreak will not damage Chinas leading role in the global supply chain as the country has the worlds largest manufacturing system with the most complete industrial chain and supporting facilities. China is also undergoing a critical stage of moving from a manufacturing powerhouse to a smartmanufacturing center, which will generate more opportunities, Yang said. To encourage people to return to their jobs, Lenovo has launched several measures. The company purchased antiepidemic goods including surgical masks and disinfectants, hired buses to bring employees back to work and sought help from other suppliers.