Mainland medics banking on experience to help HK fight COVID
2020-08-03 14:23
The first fangcang hospital in Hong Kong, converted from the AsiaWorldExpo exhibition center, a venue near the Hong Kong International Airport, goes into operation on Aug , . Photo by Calvin NgChina Daily    Chinese mainland medical experts sent to the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region to assist the fight against the COVID epidemic will incorporate experiences gained on the mainland with ontheground situation in Hong Kong while respecting local medical regulations and legal provisions. To help curb a resurgence of the virus in Hong Kong, the National Health Commission said on Saturday that it had gathered two medical assistance teams  one aimed at boosting local testing capacity and the other one focusing on helping manage temporary treatment centers, known as fangcang hospitals. Wan Jun, vicepresident of Renmin Hospital of Wuhan University in Wuhan, Hubei province, is a member of the sixmember group devoted to helping build fangcang hospitals. He said in an interview with the China Central Television on Sunday before leaving for Hong Kong that before departure, the team had sorted out experiences learned during the epidemic in Wuhan  the hardesthit city in China, enhanced skills of team members, stocked up on protective equipment and learned about healthcare rules in Hong Kong. We will bring the care of the central leadership and people on the mainland to people in Hong Kong and provide professional guidance and knowledge. Meanwhile, we will uphold the principle of one country, two systems and abide by local rules and regulations, he said. The first fangcang hospital in Hong Kong, converted from the AsiaWorldExpo exhibition center, went into operation on Saturday, according to the Hong Kong government. As of Sunday, the mainland team had received the centers floor layout and was working on preparations. Wan added that upon arrival, their work will cover a wide range of aspects, including the layout of facilities, allocation and training of personnel, design of working procedures and proper disposal of medical waste. During the peak of the epidemic on the Chinese mainland, Wan was also the head of the Wuchang fangcang hospital in Wuhan, which received over , patients. Having experienced the construction and management of fangcang hospitals from scratch and having seen the positive effects, we will share standardized procedures and practical experiences with colleagues in Hong Kong, he said. Ma Yonggang, another member of the medical aid team, said one crucial task in Hong Kong is to prevent hospitalacquired infections through careful design and precautions. Since Hong Kong mainly speaks Cantonese, Ma added that smart device will be deployed to facilitate communication.