Machine manufacturer hurrying to help suit makers across nation
2020-03-13 10:20
Workers make protective suits at a workshop in a company in Ningjin county, North Chinas Hebei province, Feb , . PhotoXinhua    Wu Fujin never expected his company to play such a significant role at a time when the country urgently needed seamsealing machines using hot air technology, a major product of his company, to fend off the COVID epidemic. On the fourth day of the Chinese Lunar New Year holiday, which started on Jan , Wu, general manager of Guangzhou Gao Ke Garmentmaking Equipment Co Ltd, was called in by the local industry authority and was asked to resume production of the machines. I was told that there had been an urgent demand for seamsealing machines from producers of medical protective suits due to the fast spreading novel coronavirus outbreak, Wu said. Then I hurriedly called back the employees and started working as soon as possible. Seamsealing machines are vital in producing protective suits as they help prevent viruses from infecting people by attaching seal strips to the protective clothing, he said. Attaching strips to the suits is the last step in the processing line of protective suits. Five days later, the company managed to dispatch  seamsealing machines to protective clothing companies in Hubei province, epicenter of the outbreak in the country. Wus company was founded in  and specialized in the design, manufacture and sale of equipment for both waterproofing and testing outdoor apparel, tents, medical protective garments, shoes and bags among others. The Ministry of Industry and Information Technology, the countrys top industry regulator, said China has an annual production capacity of , heat seamsealing machines. A large number of manufacturers are small and mediumsized enterprises. Guangdong province alone accounts for  percent of the total. Following the coronavirus outbreak, the ministry has called on producers in the sector to send their products to protective clothing manufacturers in whatever way possible by transferring, renting, lending or donation. By midFebruary, supplies of seamsealing machines had become sufficient, helping expand the production capacity of protective suits, said Luo Junjie, deputy director of the ministrys industrial equipment department. According to Luo, there are about , seamsealing machines operating on assembly lines across the nation, which can help produce another , medical protective suits a day. Wus company has an annual production capacity of over , and has sent more than  machines nationwide so far since they resumed production. Most of the machines were sent to protective clothing manufacturers in the provinces of Hubei and Henan during the outbreak, the company said. The company has also shipped its products to about  countries and regions. Demand for the firms protective clothing has been increasing sharply due to its role in preventing and controlling the epidemic, Wu explained. Ye Huadong, director of the Guangzhou Municipal Small and Mediumsized Enterprises Bureau, said Guangzhou has a daily production capacity of more than , protective clothing units and this has been boosted by the resumption of operations of manufacturers whose products are helpful in controlling the disease.