Longterm commitment to CIIE participation shows confidence for expo
2020-07-26 21:31
Representatives of companies sign a memorandum of understanding to commit their taking part in three consecutive editions of the China International Import Expo at a ceremony held at the National Exhibition and Convention Center Shanghai on July , . Photo provided to chinadaily.com.cn    Thirtyfive companies pledged their commitment to participating in three consecutive editions of the China International Import Expo CIIE by signing a memorandum of understanding at the first Conference of the third CIIE Enterprise Alliance held in Shanghai on July , boosting confidence for the future growth of the expo. The companies making such commitment are all members of the third CIIE Enterprise Alliance, with most of them being among the Fortune  or leading players in the industry. The CIIE Bureau also announced at the conference the founding of two special committees for the dairy industry, as well as public health and epidemic prevention. More of such special committees will be set up, according to the bureau. Initiated by exhibitors, the CIIE Enterprise Alliance was established during the first CIIE in , with the aim of becoming a platform for quality companies to carry out cooperation, share information and resources, and contribute to promoting the trade cooperation between China and other countries. Since its inception in ,  companies from  countries and regions have joined the alliance. It is of great significance to hold the first conference of the third CIIE Enterprise Alliance as July  marks the day countdown to the third CIIE, said Sun Chenghai, deputy directorgeneral of the CIIE Bureau and secretarygeneral of the CIIE Enterprise Alliance. He said he hoped that members of the alliance would play their roles as leading industry players in boosting technological innovation, serving as a bond between members of the alliance and contributing their wisdom. Liu Fuxue, deputy directorgeneral of the CIIE Bureau, announced the list of members of the third CIIE Enterprise Alliance. He said that communities placed higher expectations on the future of the CIIE Enterprise Alliance, and called all to stand together to build an even brighter future for the alliance, and share the opportunities brought about by the CIIE. A revised version of the regulations for the alliance was released at the conference. Fabrice Megarbane, president and CEO of LOreal China, was appointed as the rotating chairman of the council for the CIIE Enterprise Alliance. The special committees will be engaged in promoting sustainable industrial development and integrating the resources of whole industrial chains to get more companies involved in the CIIE. Nearly  companies have signed for the exhibition at the subsection dedicated to public health and antiepidemic products and services, covering  percent of the worlds wellknown companies in the field. Nearly  of them are among Fortune  and leading players in the field. The exhibition area will span over , square meters. Dairy companies have shown enthusiasm for taking part in the exhibition at the food and agricultural products exhibition area, with the exhibition areas for dairy products covering nearly , sq m. Six of the worlds top eight dairy companies will take part in the exhibition, and nearly onethird of the Fortune  and leading companies to show up at the food and agricultural products area are dairy companies.