Local Heilongjiang firms step up virus control work as cases soar
2021-01-27 13:34
A medical worker verifies the identity of a citizen at a testing site at the Fushun community in Harbin, Northeast Chinas Heilongjiang province, Jan , . PhotoXinhua    Northeast Chinas Heilongjiang province recorded  new locally transmitted confirmed cases of COVID and  asymptomatic carriers on Tuesday, the provincial health commission said on Wednesday. Data showed that all the cases were reported in Suihua citys Wangkui county and the capital city Harbin, the two major affected areas in the recent outbreak. As the number of COVID cases has soared in Heilongjiang, local enterprises are continuing to make efforts for epidemic prevention and control work. A Huoyan Laboratory in a convention and exhibition center in Harbin will be put into operation, local media reported on Wednesday. A total of  white, tentlike inflatable facilities have been constructed in the lab, driving up the nucleic acid testing capacity in the lab to more than , tubes a day. The labs are operated by BGI Genomics, a private biotech company based in Shenzhen, Guangdong province, which built the makeshift testing complex in about nine hours. The firm also assembled about  employees from across the nation to join in the construction, according to Su Hang, deputy general manager of its Heilongjiang company. Meanwhile, workers at Harbin Dahuanghuanyu New Technology are busy producing their newly developed disinfectant. It contains more environmentally friendly ingredients without unpleasant or irritating odor, said Sun Zhichao, head of the companys manufacturing plant. The company also said that the daily output had increased by  percent to provide a strong market guarantee for residents needs in prevention. As of Tuesday, there were  confirmed cases and  asymptomatic carriers in Heilongjiang. Neighboring Jilin province on Tuesday reported  confirmed cases, driving the caseload to , according to the provincial Health Commission. Eighteen asymptomatic carriers were reported on Tuesday, bringing the total to . Among the  cases receiving treatment in hospitals,  are in serious condition, the commission said.