Local governments step up with incentives to spur sales
2020-03-30 11:12
A worker passes by car bodies at LynkCos plant in Zhangjiakou, Hebei province. Photo by?Li FushengChina Daily    Measures include subsidies for buyers and cutbacks on license plate restrictions Local authorities in a growing number of Chinese cities are offering subsidies and increasing the number of available license plates to encourage vehicle purchases in the country. Residents in Ningbo, a city in East Chinas Zhejiang province, can have a discount of , yuan if they buy a locally produced vehicle by Sept , the city government said on Friday. Two days earlier, the Hangzhou government in the same province decided to offer another , license plates this year. Hangzhou is one of several metropolises in the country that limits the number of license plates. By Friday, at least eight cities in Zhejiang, Guangdong, Hunan and Jiangxi provinces had released measures, which are primarily centered on offering financial incentives. The Beijing government is reportedly considering moves as well. Cities including Hangzhou have relaxed the limits, and the moves will help boost vehicle sales, said Xian Guoyi, a senior official at the Ministry of Commerce. Xian made his remarks during a press conference on Thursday. He said the ministry will encourage more local governments to come up with measures considering actual conditions. Cars are one of the most important pillars of the economy, said Xian. The ministry, together with Chinas top economic planner and other departments, has issued repeated calls for local authorities to help salvage the auto industry, which was hammered during the epidemic. In February, carmakers delivered , vehicles, down almost  percent yearonyear, according to the China Association of Automobile Manufacturers. In the first two months of , vehicle sales totaled . million in the country, down  percent yearonyear. To make it worse, vehicle sales in China fell for two years in  and  before plummeting in the first two months of this year. But as the epidemic is basically curbed in China, visitors are returning to car showrooms and sales are showing signs of recovery. By March , over  percent of dealerships had resumed operations, according to the AllChina Federation of Industry and Commerce.