Liquidity boost and rate cuts to stir growth
2020-03-31 07:33
A clerk counts cash at a bank in Natong, South Chinas Jiangsu province. PhotoSipa    China is considering more measures like liquidity injections and interest rate cuts to ease credit shortages and stimulate economic growth, analysts said on Monday. The comments came after the Peoples Bank of China, the central bank, cut the interest rate on the sevenday reverse repurchase agreements to . percent from . percent, the biggest drop in five years, an indication that policymakers are considering more stimulus measures to offset any further economic slowdown due to the novel coronavirus epidemic. The PBOC has lowered the shortterm lending benchmark rate via its openmarket operations for the first time since Feb  this year. Through the reverse repurchase agreements, the PBOC injected  billion yuan . billion of liquidity into the banking system, the central bank said in a statement. The rate reduction followed a major policy meeting last week, which called for more aggressive countercyclical adjustments, including monetary and fiscal steps, to deal with the COVID fallout. Ma Jun, a member of the PBOC monetary policy committee, said the rate cut is an indication that the countrys monetary policy has stepped into a stage of using stronger countercyclical measures. The decision was made after evaluating the needs of domestic production resumption and the deteriorating external economic environment, he said. Experts said the reverse repurchase rate cut will lead to a lower mediumterm lending facility rate, and drive down the real lending rate for businesses, which is gauged by the oneyear loan prime rate LPR that is due for a reset on April . China still has sufficient monetary policy space and tools and is the only country that still leverages conventional monetary policy, said Ma. The PBOC has not yet used up all of its bullets at the same time. We expect the authorities to urge banks to expand lending, particularly to smaller and private companies. To achieve this, more liquidity will be injected by the PBOC via both broadbased and targeted methods, such as reductions in the reserve requirement ratio and shoring up liquidity via targeted MLFs, said Bloomberg economist David Qu. On Monday, the Chinese CSI  index of Shanghaiand Shenzhenlisted stocks fell nearly  percent, after oil prices dropped to their lowest level in nearly two decades, while the global coronavirus cases climbed above ,. Many of the PBOCs global peers have pledged to further ease monetary policy to maintain ample liquidity and provide financial relief to tackle the global health crisis. The G leaders reached a consensus last week to use all measures, including an injection of  trillion into the global economy, to curb the negative impact of the virus and sustain growth. China is also planning to raise the budgeted deficit ratio, a proportion of fiscal deficits to the GDP, and issue special sovereign debt, the first time since . Local governments will also issue more special bonds compared with the amount raised last year, to increase spending mainly in infrastructure, the toplevel policy meeting said. Cutting the major rates will benefit bond issuances, enabling governments to raise cheaper funds, said analysts. Since the outbreak, an estimated . trillion yuan, or . percent of the GDP, of fiscal measures have been approved and are being implemented by Chinese authorities, according to the International Monetary Fund IMF. Key measures include increased spending on epidemic prevention and control, production of medical equipment, accelerated disbursement of unemployment insurance, tax reliefs and social security contribution waivers.