Let the games begin
2021-09-15 09:45
The torch relay for Chinas th National Games has entered its final stage before the cauldron is lit at the newly built Xian Olympic Sports Center tonight.?XINHUA    Host Shaanxi ready to shine with streamlined, safe and splendid national showpiece With Chinas th National Games kicking off in Xian on Wednesday, host Shaanxi province is ready to deliver on its promise of staging a streamlined, safe and splendid showpiece. Illustrating the enormity of the Games, medals are up for grabs in a total of  disciplines across  sports of which are open to the public in a bid to boost the national fitness campaign. The majority of the action is taking place in  cities in Shaanxi, although six events which have special requirements, such as surfing, are being staged in seven other provinces. Some events were completed before the opening ceremony, but this week the Games will still play host to over , athletes, , delegation members, , technical officials, , volunteers and , media workers. Adhering to the principle of staging a streamlined, safe and splendid National Games, we need to overcome the influence of the COVID pandemic. All the preparation work has gone really smoothly, Gao Zhidan, a deputy director of the General Administration of Sport of China, told a news conference in Xian on Tuesday. The vision of the National Games is peoplecentered. We hope to showcase the multifunctionality and farreaching effects of the Games. We also hope the Games can be a platform for the athletes to shine and grow, and this is a platform for us to find the nations future sports stars. The National Games should also meet peoples growing sporting needs, and should also help build a healthier China and make the nation a stronger sports powerhouse. With the COVID pandemic still a major consideration, guaranteeing the safety of all participants is a priority for organizers. Learning from the experience of the Tokyo Olympics, the National Games organizing committee has devised and implemented comprehensive epidemicprevention regulations for athletes, technical officials, delegation members and media, with the goal of zero infections.