Lessons of experience
2020-04-28 07:51
SHI YUCHINA DAILY    The Chinese peoples struggle against the novel coronavirus should be appreciated and acknowledged by the world Chinas experience in combating the novel coronavirus not only shows that it is possible to control its transmission if effective measures are taken as early as possible, but also offers lessons to the world on how to contain it. Infection prevention, transmission control and patient treatment require both speed and resolve. China has showed strong determination to curb the transmission of the virus, adopting regionspecific and multilevel targeted approaches based on precise evaluations of the risks. As the COVID pandemic threatens every person and every country, realtime information sharing is a must for both China and the international community. The Chinese government has released pandemicrelated information in a timely manner without reservation. China has shared its experience in epidemic containment and patient treatment, and responded openly to concerns at home and abroad. As a result, China has avoided public panic, effectively curbed rumors and misinformation, and succeeded in communicating the progress that has been made in preventing and controlling the spread of the virus. The World Health Organization has encouraged everyone to play their part in the fight against the virus by standing in solidarity with one another and seizing every single opportunity to prevent, contain, delay and reduce the impact of the virus. The fight against the virus calls for a collective commitment to humanity. United Nations SecretaryGeneral Antonio Guterres delivered a speech saying we must declare war on this virus and he called on governments to cooperate in order to ensure targeted support for the people and communities most affected by the disease. China acted swiftly, mobilizing governments at all levels and all communities in the fight against the virus. No one has been alone in this fight. From governments to citizens and from the medical system to other industries, all have been actively involved in this fight, playing different roles to prevent infection and treat the disease. Technology alone cannot win the fight against this pandemic, and nontechnological measures must also play their roles. There is no specific drug or vaccine available as yet but China has effectively contained the pandemic by embracing nontechnological means. Some people in other countries have viewed Chinas pandemic response measures as being an overreaction, some even used them as an excuse to question Chinas political system. But responding to the pandemic has required systematic and complex efforts of not just the health sector but the whole of society. All Chinese people have been united in this battle. The novel coronavirus outbreak has tested and proved the power of the Chinese tradition of overall planning. History shows that a severe epidemic or disaster could lead to economic downturn and social disorder which in turn worsens the situation. No country would like to be trapped in such a vicious circle and China is no exception. Efficient and flexible coordination played an indispensable role in combating the virus, making Chinas quick and effective response possible. Efficient coordination enabled the medical system to handle the outbreak by concentrating resources on Wuhan. Good coordination meant the number of cases was well controlled, avoiding a shortage of medical resources for severe cases while the infection rate and death toll were reduced through effective quarantining. This helped to block off the source of infection through monitoring and screening. China has taken a scientific approach toward the COVID outbreak. As President Xi Jinping has stressed, solidarity and science and technology remain the most powerful weapons against the pandemic. Wellequipped with scientific tools and techniques there is a much higher chance of victory against the virus. After it was realized there was an outbreak of an unknown virus, Chinese researchers identified the whole genome sequence of the virus in less than a week and it was immediately made public to the world. Yet victory over the virus is of utmost significance to the safety and health of not only the Chinese people but also people around the world. While fighting a hard battle against the virus, China received countless messages of condolence and support as well as large amount of supplies from many countries. Since the very beginning of the outbreak, China has highly valued international cooperation on public health and provided timely information updates to the WHO and the global community. As President Xi has said, the pandemic is a big test for Chinas governance system and capacity. He has called on the Chinese people to learn from past mistakes and continue to improve. China met with difficulties and showed shortcomings in the earlier days of the outbreak, while other countries were not well prepared either even after China made some progress in fighting the virus. In short, every country has weaknesses and problems in their epidemic response. Chinas problems include formalism and bureaucracy which hindered some epidemic prevention and control efforts. China has been serious about addressing these weaknesses, taking quick remedial adjustments and corrective measures, and planning to take even more remedial actions after the outbreak is over. The world has seen that the government and the people of China have not panicked or taken delayed decisions, instead they have shown their resilience in this course of pandemic. The Chinese peoples struggle against the novel coronavirus should be appreciated and acknowledged by the world. They gave weight to their medical experts opinions and proved that nations can be recognized for their determination, unwavering discipline and collective sense of responsibility. The author is secretarygeneral of the PakistanChina Friendship Association Khyber Chapter. The author contributed this article to China Watch, a think tank powered by China Daily. The views do not necessarily reflect those of China Daily.