Legal eagle hits new highs via livestreams
2020-04-15 10:35
Li Ya offers legal consultations via livestreams from his home in Beijing during the outbreak. CHINA DAILY    In recent weeks, the novel coronavirus outbreak has prevented Li Ya from meeting clients and attending case hearings, but it has not stopped him providing legal services. Since the outbreak started, Li, a lawyer with the Beijing Zhongwen Law Firm, has been busy online, helping clients to solve legal problems and answering their questions. The remote activity is partly the result of not being allowed to leave home for fear of becoming infected, but also because many trials have been postponed to prevent large gatherings and stop the virus spreading. After collecting and studying hot legal issues among his clients, Li gave online analysis and answers via livestreams on Feb  and March . In the first, he shared his opinions and legal solutions for clients troubled by contract disputes resulting from the epidemic. In the second, he focused on how to protect the interests of private equity investors, which was a popular issue among his clients and had prompted many questions. Livestreaming, which is more usually seen on ecommerce platforms, was new to me, the yearold said. I felt good when I tried this new thing, as it has not only answered my clients questions efficiently during this unusual period, but also helped others to understand what we lawyers do. He compared livestreaming to holding an open law class, and expressed his new passion for interacting with netizens in this manner. If we could find the time, when the epidemic ends I would like to provide regular training for business clients via livestreams to help meet their legal demands, he said. Like Li in Beijing, a number of law companies and justice bureaus in other provinces have introduced innovative working practices as a result of the outbreak. For example, the justice department in Chancheng district, Foshan, Guangdong province, has encouraged local attorneys to teach netizens about the law to help them distinguish fake information and messages from genuine information in cyberspace. As of March , more than , people had improved their legal awareness as a result of Lis livestreams. The unexpected outbreak disrupted my work plans, but it did not break my will and desire to provide people with legal advice, he said. Now, his law firm is considering applying internet technologies and services such as livestreaming in more areas of its work, he added. In this way, the epidemic could be said to be helping us expand our working practices, he said. I believe the broadcasting equipment and environment in the office would be better and more professional than the stuff I have at home now. ?