Jilin, Heilongjiang outbreak control work continues as new cases are found
2021-01-25 11:28
Staff members process online medicine orders at a pharmacy in Tonghua, Northeast Chinas Jilin province, Jan , . PhotoXinhua    A new facility is being built in the city of Tonghua, Jilin province to function as a centralized quarantine center, with , rooms to be available after completion according to the citys epidemic prevention and control headquarters. With an area of , square meters, the facility started construction on Jan  in Tonghua Bonded Logistics Center and is expected to be finished on Jan . A temporary signal tower has also been set up to ensure full coverage. COVID infections have been occurring in Tonghua since Jan . As of Sunday, the city had reported  confirmed cases and  asymptomatic carriers. Jilin reported  new locally transmitted confirmed cases of COVID and five asymptomatic carriers on Sunday, the provincial health commission said on Monday. Among them,  confirmed and four asymptomatic cases were detected in Tonghua. As of Sunday, the province had reported  confirmed cases and  asymptomatic carriers in the recent outbreak that started when asymptomatic carriers arrived from neighboring Heilongjiang province. A quarantine center with  beds has been put into use in the city of Gongzhuling of Jilin on Sunday, China National Radio reported. The center was converted from a factory plant in Fanjiatun township. Eight top officials from Gongzhuling, a countylevel city under the administration of Changchun, received punishment for failing to prevent and control its COVID outbreak, according to a statement from the Changchun disciplinary watchdog on Monday. They were given various punishments, including removals from public posts and intraParty warnings. Heilongjiang province reported  new local cases and  asymptomatic carriers on Sunday, the provincial health commission said on Monday. Among the cases,  confirmed and  asymptomatic carriers were detected in the capital city Harbin. Most were in some way connected to a local food company. After receiving reports that a worker at Heilongjiang Charoen Pokphand Co Ltd tested positive for the novel coronavirus on Jan , the local government immediately closed the factory and conducted a comprehensive screening of its staff members and products. As of Monday, we have removed more than , metric tons of their products from the markets and conducted nucleic acid testing with the cooperation of the health commission and center for disease prevention and control, Li Jinsong, deputy director of the provincial administration for market regulation, said at a news conference on Monday. Tests conducted on over , samples have been finished and nine from outer packages came back positive. A total of , kilograms of products involved in the same production dates had gone to the markets in the provinces cities of Heihe, Suihua, Qiqihar and Daqing, he said. We have safely sealed all products in Heihe, Suihua and Qiqihar, and tracing work for the  kilograms of products in Daqing is underway. As of Sunday, Heilongjiang had reported  confirmed cases and  asymptomatic carriers cumulatively since Jan . Heilongjiang reported on Saturday seven coronavirus patients had been discharged from hospital on Saturday, the first batch of recent infections. Another five were discharged on Sunday.