Jilin province points to economic turnaround in first half
2020-08-05 11:24
In the first half of the year, Northeast Chinas Jilin province posted a GDP of . billion yuan . billion, in a solid performance that withstood the negative impact of the novel coronavirus outbreak, according to local media reports on Aug .Officials said that H figure represented a small yearonyear GDP decrease of . percent based on comparable prices, against the first half of last year.But within that period, the second quarter  for March to end June  saw a . percentage point increase on the GDP in the first quarter and the sixmonth performance was . percentage points higher than the national average level.According to local officials, in the first half of this year, Jilin province coordinated?its measures on COVID epidemic prevention and control with its work to promote economic and social development.They said success on that front saw the economy performing in a stable fashion  and most economic indicators came in better than the national averages.In agriculture, the decline in production narrowed. In the first half of the year, the total output value of agriculture, forestry, animal husbandry and fishery decreased by . percent yearonyear, a . percentage point reduction in the fall in the first quarter, while the number of live pigs in the province increased by . percent.In the first half of the year, the added value of industries above a designated size in the province increased by . percent yearon year, . percentage points higher than that?in January to May, and . percentage points higher than the national average.Officials said that among its key industries, the provinces automobile manufacturing sector grew by . percent in added value in the first half, a significant increase of . percentage points compared with the January to May period.In addition, in the first half of the year, officials added that Jilins fixed asset investment increased by . percent yearonyear, which was  percentage points higher than that in January to May, and . percentage points higher than the national average level.Of that, investment in the auto manufacturing industry noticeably increased by . percent yearonyear, infrastructure investment increased by . percent and investment in real estate development increased by . percent against the same period last year.In the first half of the year, private investment in Jilin province increased by . percent, . percentage points higher than that in January to May.Officials said that in the first half of the year,  new infrastructure projects  including communications network infrastructure, highspeed rail and urban rail transit  were started in succession in the province.