Japan to keep foreign spectators away from Tokyo Olympics, Kyodo says
2021-03-10 09:56
A banner for the upcoming Tokyo  Olympics is seen behind a traffic sign, following an outbreak of the coronavirus disease COVID, in Tokyo, Japan, March , . PhotoAgencies    TOKYO  Japan has decided to stage this summers Tokyo Olympics and Paralympics without overseas spectators due to public concern about COVID, Kyodo news agency said on Tuesday, citing officials with knowledge of the matter. The Tokyo  games organising committee said in response that a decision would be made by the end of March. The Olympics, postponed by a year because of the pandemic, are scheduled for July  to Aug  and the Paralympics from Aug  to Sept . Kyodo said the government had concluded that welcoming fans from abroad would not be possible given public concern about the coronavirus and the detection of more contagious variants in many countries, Kyodo cited the officials as saying. The opening ceremony of the torch relay would also be held without any spectators, Kyodo said. The organising committee has decided it is essential to hold the ceremony in the northeastern prefecture of Fukushima behind closed doors, only permitting participants and invitees to take part in the event, to avoid large crowds forming amid the pandemic, Kyodo said, quoting the officials. Tokyo  President Seiko Hashimoto has said she wants a decision on whether to let in overseas spectators before the start of the torch relay on March . Five parties, the IOC, the IPC International Paralympic Committee, Tokyo , the Tokyo Metropolitan Government and the national government, came together for a meeting via online just last week, the organising committee said in response to the Kyodo report. The decision regarding allowing spectators from overseas to attend the Tokyo  Games will be made by the end of March based on factors including the state of infections in Japan and other countries, possible epidemicprevention measures, and expert scientific advice will be considered. Reuters