Is China to blame for the continued rise in the pandemics death toll?
2020-08-26 11:02
US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo speaks to reporters following a meeting with members of the UN Security Council at UN headquarters in New York, US, Aug , . PhotoAgencies    US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, in his recent speech at the Richard Nixon Presidential Library, negated every aspect of ChinaUS relations, maliciously attacked the leadership of the Communist Party of China CPC and Chinas political system, and attempted to drive a wedge between the CPC and the Chinese people. He also wantonly criticized Chinas domestic and foreign policies, spread the socalled China threat, and called for an antiChina alliance to contain Chinas development. Pompeos baseless, factdistorting speech misrepresents history and the reality. It is full of ideological prejudice and driven by a ColdWar mentality. His remarks have not only been condemned by the Chinese people, but also criticized and opposed by sensible people in the United States as well as the international community. To debunk the lies fabricated by Pompeo, let the facts speak for themselves. Rumor Mike Pompeo The CCP fails in its promises to the world, leading to the continued rise in the pandemics death toll. Fact The Chinese government has taken the most comprehensive, strict and thorough prevention and control measures in the shortest time, containing the epidemic mainly in Wuhan. Data showed that very few cases were from China, and the transmission chain of the virus was effectively cut off. A Science magazine report estimated that the aforementioned measures reduced the number of infected people in China by more than ,.  When Wuhan was locked down on Jan. ,, there was only one confirmed case in the United States. When the US on Feb.  closed its borders to all Chinese citizens and foreigners who had been to China over the past  days, it reported merely more than  confirmed cases. When the US declared a state of emergency on March , the countrys COVID tally was ,. When the Chinese government lifted the lockdown on Wuhan on April , the number of confirmed cases in the US reached ,. The country saw its tally rise from one to  million in less than  days. Currently, the number of confirmed cases in the US has exceeded . million with the death toll over ,.  From the onset of COVID, the largest emergency humanitarian operation in the history of the Peoples Republic of China has been carried out. The nation widely shared its experience in COVID prevention and control, provided medical supplies and dispatched medical teams to where they were needed overseas. By early May, seven versions of the diagnosis and treatment guidelines and six versions of the prevention and control guidelines had been made public through an online knowledge center. A billionyuan special fund had been set up to fight COVID, and over  video conferences had been held with experts and officials from more than  countries and international organizations. Medical supplies had been provided to more than  countries and international organizations, and  Chinese medical teams had been sent to  countries. China set up a joint expert group with the EU, and established a prevention and control cooperation mechanism with the Republic of Korea. China sent a cash donation of  million US dollars to the World Health Organization, pledged to make COVID vaccines global public goods, and provided the world with more than  billion face masks. In response to the G call for debt repayment moratorium for the poorest countries, China has agreed to suspend principal and interest repayments on the debts of  developing countries due from May  to the end of this year. The international community commended Chinas help and support which reflected the spirit of sharing weal and woe and helping each other, and further highlighted the importance of building a community with a shared future for mankind.  On May , the website of US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention CDC released a report by CDC Principal Deputy Chief Anne Schuchat and CDC COVID response team, which showed that after the United States first confirmed case was reported on Jan. , the pandemic seemed to be brought under control in February, but then intensified rapidly. Factors including a continued rise in imported cases, mass gatherings, the introduction of the virus into highrisk workplaces and densely populated areas, and limited testing that led to covert and asymptomatic transmissions, accelerated the spread of the virus in February and March.  New York State Governor Andrew Cuomo pointed to a research by Northeastern University showing that the first strain of the novel coronavirus entering his state was not from China. The New York Times quoted American experts who confirmed that most New York coronavirus cases did not come from Asia.  Statistics from several major Canadian provinces showed that the virus was introduced into Canada by American travelers. A study by Frances Pasteur Institute found that the source of the virus strain transmitted locally was unknown. Russia reported no imported cases from China. Data from the Australian Government Department of Health showed that the proportion of imported cases from Northeast Asia was extremely small. Japans National Institute of Infectious Diseases said the pandemic that spread in Japan after March did not originate in China.  As the New York Times pointed out in an article titled Why is the US exporting coronavirus, the United States, with the largest number of COVID cases in the world, is continuing to deport thousands of immigrants, many infected with the coronavirus. In late April, the Guatemalan government reported that nearly a fifth of the countrys coronavirus cases were linked to deportees from the United States. Seventyone of  deportees tested positive for the coronavirus.