Ireland eyes China boost for agrifood exports
2021-04-07 09:28
Irish meat exports to China broke records in , driven by the unprecedented demand for meat in China. PhotoIC    China is expected to become Irelands secondlargest destination for exports after the United Kingdom, especially for foodstuffs and agricultural products, over the next several years, Irish business leaders said on Tuesday. Though trading activities were disrupted due to the COVID pandemic last year, Irish agrifood exports to China rose by  percent on a yearly basis in value terms to a record  million euros . million last year, data from Irelands Department of Agriculture, Food and the Marine showed. China is now the fourthlargest market for Irish food exports and accounts for more than  percent of the European countrys food exports. The country mainly ships dairy, meat and seafood to China. We see that China has transformed as a meat market in the last decade. Meat consumption has increased. Protein demand has become more diverse. And consumers are much more conscious about quality in China, said Tara McCarthy, CEO of the Irish Food Board, or Bord Bia, the promotional agency for food products of the Irish government. She said most of these changes have been due to innovation and globalization of Chinas food service and retail industry. These changes will provide a big boost to beef up consumption, she said. Bord Bia identified China as a platinum market for the Irish food industry after a market prioritization project four years ago. The only other platinum market for Ireland is the United Kingdom. The platinum status reflects a wide range of opportunities across multiple priority sectors. In addition to Chinas toptier cities, McCarthy said other cities such as Chengdu and Qingdao have also shown a growing demand for meat from Ireland, particularly in the premium retail segment and in restaurants. With the magic of ecommerce, we are finding that we can reach consumers throughout China, no matter where they are, and that was not possible a decade ago, she said, adding that thanks to its growing pork exports to China in the first quarter of this year, Ireland is expecting to ship more agricultural products this year. China temporarily suspended imports of Irish beef for epidemic prevention purposes in May last year. Conor OSullivan, head of China operation at Bord Bia, said Irish beef exporters are currently awaiting the green light from the Chinese government, as they believe that they could export , metric tons to , metric tons of beef to China. He said Irish meat exports to China broke records in , driven by the unprecedented demand for meat in China while the recovery from African swine fever continues and consumers choices diversify for protein. For meat, China has already proven its value to our pork industrythe largest market for pork exports, and we are looking to replicate that success with beef and, further down the line, lamb and poultry, he said. Goods trade between China and Ireland soared . percent yearonyear to . billion yuan . billion in , data from the General Administration of Customs show. Because of rising feed prices, limited grazing land and the breeding cycle, Chinas cattleraising sector lags behind consumer demand, resulting in higher beef and mutton prices over the past decade, said Ding Lixin, a researcher at the Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences in Beijing. As China has found it impossible to grow all of the food it needs and has consequently formed closer ties with the global food market, demand for beef, mutton, pork, fruit, wine and dairy products will certainly offer many opportunities for major exporters of agricultural products such as Spain, Ireland, Chile, Argentina and the United States, he said.