Work on highspeed railway line accelerates revival
2020-03-26 10:33
View of the HuanggangHuangmei highspeed railway in Hubei province, which restarted construction on Monday. Photo by Sun ZhengFor China Daily    A .kilometerlong highspeed railway in Central Chinas Hubei province, where the novel coronavirus outbreak began, has resumed construction work when one of the builders, the China Tiesiju Civil Engineering CTCE Group, first brought its workers back on the site on Monday. The railway links the city of Huanggang and Huangmei county with a total investment of . billion yuan . billion. The project is a component of the countrys design of eight vertical and eight horizontal highspeed railway lines and is scheduled to finish in June . Luo Lan, chief of engineering for CTCEs railway project, said that after gaining approval from the local authorities, his employees have restarted work on the extralarge railway bridge spanning the MachengYangxin Expressway. The job started in December  and was suspended on Jan  due to the Lunar New Year holiday. It was delayed by more than  days due to the COVID virus outbreak. Huanggang borders Wuhan, the provincial capital of Hubei. Like Wuhan, the city has also been hit hard, having seen , confirmed cases and  deaths from the disease. Luo said the extralarge railway bridge they are building is composed of  continuous concreteandsteel beams and costs  million yuan. They are constructing the th beam at this time. The projects managerial staff and workers come from various areas within and outside Hubei, according to Luo. The firm used chartered buses and special cars to bring  workers back to work, after undertaking stringent nucleic acid tests and body temperature checks. He said they put the health of staffers and work resumption on top of their agenda. To safeguard the health of employees, the CTCE project management team put enough facial masks, disinfectants, body temperature detectors and other epidemic prevention materials in place. They also put together work resumption details, intending to increase input in personnel and equipment to make up for the lost time of more than  days caused by the virus. Zhao Jinli, a worker from Southwest Chinas Yunnan province, said with his health certificate, he took a chartered bus from his hometown back to the work site, adding he now feels very safe. For Zhao Yun, a worker from Central Chinas Henan province, the project managerial team sent a special car to bring him and three others back. Joining the WuhanHuanggang intercity highspeed railway in the north and linking the BeijingKowloon highspeed railway at Jiujiang city in neighboring Jiangxi province in the south, the new railway line starts from Huanggang East Station and runs southeastward through Xishui county, Qichun county and Wuxue city before ending at Huangmei. Ji Quanrui, executive deputy generalmanager of CTCEs project on the highspeed railway, said that upon completion, the HuanggangHuangmei railway can bring tremendous convenience to local travelers living in mountainous regions. They can reach Wuhan in  minutes from Huanggang and Hangzhou in Zhejiang province in three hours. It will be of vital importance to improve the railway network in the economic belt of the Yangtze River, which travels through Wuhan and Huanggang cities in its middle reaches, he said. Huanggang city administers one district, two countylevel cities and seven counties, including Wuxue city, Xishui, Qichun and Huangmei counties. They will be linked by the new railway. According to Ji, Chinas highspeed railway lines will hit , kilometers by , when the countrys total railway network will reach , kilometers. At this time, four railway lines are being built in Hubei province, he said.