Insurance will play bigger role in strengthening dualcirculation
2020-12-28 09:30
A community worker helps an elderly patient with online health insurance services at a hospital in Anqing, Anhui province, in July, . Photo by Huang YouanFor China Daily    The insurance industry can play a bigger role in serving the countrys new growth pattern of dualcirculation as well as its governance system and modernization of governance capacity, during the th FiveYear Plan period . In the dualcirculation paradigm, put forward at the Fifth Plenary Session of the th Central Committee of the Communist Party of China, which was held in Beijing from Oct  to Oct , the domestic market is the mainstay and domestic and foreign markets reinforce each other. Insurance can contribute to multiple sectors domestically. For one thing, it can help the construction of a multipillar pension insurance system in China. Currently, there are three major pillars of the insurance system the Staterun fundamental insurance, enterprises annuity provided by employers and commercial pension insurance. Chinas elderly population is estimated to surpass  million during the  period, and the shortfall of pension will likely reach  trillion yuan . trillion to  trillion yuan in the following five to  years. The th FiveYear Plan is likely to propose steadily building a longterm nursing insurance system, which will provide an opportunity for commercial pension insurance to help put together overall elderly security system. Besides, some insurance companies have explored business in building communities for the elderly, where old people can be taken care of, receive medical services and join other entertaining activities. So the insurers functions have expanded from the finance sector to diverse elderly services. Insurance can also contribute to the countrys rural revitalization strategy. During the th FiveYear Plan period , agricultural insurance played an important role in serving poverty reduction, but its development is still at the initial stage. The influence of agricultural insurance needs to be expanded, while the quality needs to be enhanced. During the th FiveYear Plan period, the insurance industry can help in economic compensation and risk management when the country continues to improve livelihood of poor people and promote rural revitalization. Inclusive finance is another segment where insurance can play a role. Currently, advanced technologies such as big data, cloud computing, blockchain and AI are accelerating transformation of the insurance industry. The application of technology diversifies the categories of insurance service and makes it possible to contain previously uncontrollable risk. Online underwriting and claims decrease operational costs. The insurance industry will provide more personalized, differentiated and cheap insurance products. In addition, insurance can serve the countrys major projects. As Chinas per capita GDP surpassed ,, its demand for insurance has entered the stage of rapid growth, according to experience from other countries. Between  and , average annual growth of premium doubled that of GDP. During the  period, the insurance market will keep a stable growth, to be able to offer longterm, steady financial support to the countrys key projects in the sectors of new infrastructurenetworks for G, big data, artificial intelligence, the internet of things, fintech, digitalization, automation, etcnew energy, new material, transportation and logistics. In recent years, the insurance industry has seen a steady and upward development trend. It has supported the countrys major strategies, the epidemic control and resumption of work this year. From January to October, original premium income reached over . trillion yuan. The insurance industry offered risk security up to ,. trillion yuan to the whole society. Compensation expenses reached more than . trillion yuan. In , critical illness insurance covered . billion people. Agricultural insurance provided risk security of . trillion yuan, as well as compensation of around  billion yuan, for farmers. Insurance funds up to  billion yuan were put into the development of the Yangtze River Economic Belt, while  billion yuan of insurance funds were invested in the coordinated development of the BeijingTianjinHebei region. By the end of September, balance of insurance fund utilization reached about  trillion yuan, up  percent from the beginning of the th FiveYear Plan period. The risk prevention capability has been strengthened. By the end of September, average comprehensive solvency adequacy ratio of  insurance companies reached . percent, with average core solvency adequacy ratio reaching . percent. It shows the overall operations of the insurance industry have stayed stable and overall risk is manageable. The industry also keeps opening up. Foreignfunded insurance market was growing during the JanuaryOctober period, with original premium income surpassing  billion yuan, up . percent yearonyear, and market occupancy reaching . percent, up . percentage points from the beginning of the th FiveYear Plan period. This year, the insurance industry helps in the fight against the COVID pandemic by donating, supporting major projects and serving small and micro companies. During peak of the pandemic in China, the insurance industry donated captive insurance to the grassroots medical, government and community workers. Total compensation reached  million yuan. Gross donation reached  million yuan, mainly to Hubei province, the region hit hardest by the coronavirus domestically. It is estimated that premium income will reach about . trillion yuan by the end of this year. Average annual growth of premium income is expected to reach about  percent during the  period, while that of total insurance assets may reach about  percent. The writer is secretary of the Party Committee, and president of the Insurance Association of China.?The views dont necessarily reflect those of China Daily.