Infrastructure projects in epidemic areas get Chinese helping hand
2020-08-21 09:56
An employee of China Railway No  Group shows his health kit to an airport staff before boarding a flight to Belgrade, Serbia, in Dalian, Liaoning province, on Saturday. Photo by?Zhang XiaominChina Daily    With many countries making notable progress in containing the spread of the COVID pandemic, Chinas Stateowned enterprises have begun to organize chartered flights to ship experts and workers abroad to support local infrastructure and economic development. The Dalian branch of China Railway No  Group Co Ltd, a subsidiary of China Railway Group Ltd, flew  of its employees to Belgrade, Serbia, last week. Carried by a Hainan Airlines charter flight, they will be quarantined for  days after arriving in the Balkan nation, after which they will participate in the technical upgrading of a copper mine, said Meng Qingyi, head of the companys Dalian branch. Meng said the firm has made full preparations for the chartered flight. All employees have undergone nucleic acid tests and received professional training in production safety and epidemic prevention. We also sent health kits, medical treatment and food supplies to the Serbian project, he said. Following the tangible growth of the Belt and Road Initiative, the company has been developing markets in Europe, Asia, Africa and South America. It won the bid for engineering work of two copper mines in Serbia last year, marking the first time the company entered the Serbian market. However, construction progress was seriously delayed due to the contagion and limited flight availability. Hainan Airlines immediately formulated a service plan, said Li Quan, general manager of Hainan Airlines Dalian branch. Through close communication with Dalian International Airport, Customs, border inspection and port offices, Hainan Airlines helped guarantee smooth departure of the chartered flight amid strict epidemic prevention measures. We will continue to actively provide chartered flights for companies needing to resume production abroad, Li said. In addition to sending more than  technicians and workers to continue construction of Pakistans Karot hydropower project late last month, Power Construction Corporation of China PowerChina shipped  staff to Bosnia and Herzegovina to support power projects there last week. As the whole world is facing an economic downturn, maintaining market share overseas has become a critical mission for SOEs, especially during the pandemic era, said Yao Qiang, the companys vicepresident. Building sound infrastructure projects such as roads, power stations and ports will also help host countries create jobs and commercial opportunities while also improving peoples living standards and boosting trade flows, Yao said. The Beijingbased group also delivered an .kilometer highway project to a client in the nation of Georgia last month. Since the project started construction in March , PowerChinas team has successively overcome several technical issues on the geologically challenging project. After  months of construction, the new twoway, fourlane highway project shortened local travel time by between  and  percent, greatly improving existing traffic efficiency and driving regional economic development, Yao said. He said the companys subsidiariesincluding Sinohydro Groupstarted building a hotel and apartment project in Saudi Arabia last month. The owner of the project is a unit of Dhahran Techno Valley Holding Co, a whollyowned subsidiary of the King Fahd University of Petroleum and Minerals in Saudi Arabia. Located in Dhahran, Saudi Arabia, the project covers a total construction area of about , square meters. It will see the development of a floor fourstar hotel and apartment complex, including  hotel rooms and  apartments, as well as a restaurant, gym, swimming pool, meeting room, stadium and underground parking lot. The press office of Beijingbased China Communications Construction Co Ltd, another centrally administrated SOE, also announced that it recently sent  workers and experts via chartered flight to Kyrgyzstan to support two local road projects.