Inflatable virus testing lab closed in Guangzhou
2021-07-02 19:02
Top Chinese epidemiologist Zhong Nanshan meets workers at an inflatable laboratory designed for COVID testing in Guangzhou, Guangdong province. The laboratory was closed on Wednesday, as the city has reported no new confirmed cases since June . Photo provided to chinadaily.com.cn    Closing an inflatable laboratory for COVID testing in Guangzhou, Guangdong province, didnt end the fight against the coronavirus even though it had completed its immediate task. We still need to keep vigilant, and at the same time we need to earnestly learn from the experience in the last month to lay a better foundation for the next fight against a virus, given that Guangdong is still under great pressure from imported cases, said Zhong Nanshan, Chinas top epidemiologist. The temporary laboratory was built at the Guangzhou Gymnasium by the Guangzhou KingMed Diagnostics Group, a testing organization, and designed to expand the citys capacity to administer nucleic acid tests. It was closed on Wednesday after reaching . million nucleic acid test samples within a single month. A total of  locally transmitted COVID cases have been reported in Guangzhou since May, including  confirmed cases and seven asymptomatic carriers. No new locally transmitted COVID cases have been reported since June , according to the citys health commission. Guangzhous experience in the fight against the latest round of the coronavirus is of great significance to global efforts of control and prevention of the epidemic, Zhong said. Carrying out highspeed, highdensity and highquality nucleic acid tests across the city and tracking key groups of people by using advanced technologies played a key role in controlling the outbreak, he said. The laboratory played a significant role in screening people suspected of being infected with the virus within a short time. The laboratory was linked to Guangzhou KingMeds headquarters laboratory and included areas for reagent preparation, sample processing and amplification analysis. It was able to receive samples around the clock and issue results in six to  hours. Zhong said more than half of confirmed COVID cases in Guangzhou were detected after several rounds of nucleic acid testing.