Indias virus surge sounds alarm for the world
2021-04-30 07:26
People get vaccinated at a stadium in Baoying county, Yangzhou, Jiangsu province, on April , . Nearly  million doses of COVID vaccines had been administered in China as of Wednesday, according to the Chinese Center for Disease Control and Prevention. Photo for China Daily by SHEN DONGBING    The devastating surge of COVID infections and deaths in India has increased the risk of flareups in neighboring countries, including China, and raised fresh alarms against easing virus vigilance, officials and experts have said. They stressed that international travel restrictions and widespread social distancing measures must continue to be enforced in China, especially as a travel boom is predicted for the upcoming fiveday International Workers Day holiday starting on Saturday. Mass vaccination in the country should also be ramped up to accelerate building herd immunity. We had expected the pandemic situation to stabilize and come under basic control by the end of this year, but the situation in India has jolted us into alertness again. The fight is not over, and it is not time for slacking, said Zhang Boli, president of Tianjin University of Traditional Chinese Medicine and a leading expert on Chinas fight against the disease. India has reported over , new cases daily for several consecutive days, shattering the previous oneday world record and accounting for about  percent of new global infections registered from April  to , according to the World Health Organization. Major drivers behind the case spike in India include mass gatherings of people, transmission of more contagious variants and low vaccination rates, WHO experts have said. Wu Zunyou, chief epidemiologist at the Chinese Center for Disease Control and Prevention, said Asia has become a new hot spot in the pandemic and the rampage of the virus in India is likely to spread to neighboring countries, Some variants detected in India have already been found in incoming passengers in China, he added. Indias epidemic situation has sounded an alarm to the world, Wu said. Although the development and rollout of vaccines have raised hope of subduing the virus, the task actually remains complicated and requires persistent efforts, he said. Enforcing disease control measures is the key to cutting the transmission of new strains and staving off the emergence of new variants, he said.