Increase in US COVID case rates underestimates true surge in asymptomatic transmission, says expert
2020-07-03 14:49
A worker wearing a face covering cleans a table on Santa Monica Pier amid the COVID pandemic on July ,  in Santa Monica, California. PhotoAgencies    WASHINGTON  The increase in COVID case rates reported in the United States has underestimated a true surge of coronavirus currently in the asymptomatic transmission, a leading epidemiologist has said. We continue to learn about the critical role that transmission by people without symptoms plays in maintaining the epidemic. It is more and more likely that we will learn that over  percent of infections  especially in people younger than  may be asymptomatic, Robert Schooley, a professor of medicine with the Division of Infectious Diseases and Global Public Health at the University of California, San Diego, told Xinhua in an interview. Fewer of these individuals ended up in the hospital or died, so the increase in the reported case rates greatly underestimated a true surge of the virus currently underway in this demographic, he noted. More than ,, COVID cases were reported in the United States with fatalities surpassing , as of Thursday evening, according to a tally by Johns Hopkins University. The US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention CDC has reported a new singleday record of , cases across the country. Several states reported record daily increase in COVID cases over the past days. Florida reported on Thursday , new cases, marking a new singleday record for the state. Politicians who point to the higher number of tests being done and to the lower death and hospitalization rate as a good thing are merely distorting reality, Schooley said. In this viral surge we are seeing more tests being done but we are also seeing a higher percentage of those tests be positive. This indicates that more infection is the issue, not more testing, he said. According to Schooley, the lower hospitalization and death rates reflect the fact that more of those being infected are younger people with fewer medical risk factors. The recent surge in COVID cases also led to record positive rates and hospitalizations. According to the CDC, , cases and  deaths from COVID among healthcare personnel have been reported nationwide. As the epidemic surges, hospitals and ICUs intensive care units are, nonetheless, being stretched to capacity in Arizona, Texas, Alabama and elsewhere. The number of deaths will rise if the epidemic is not brought into check, Schooley said. The COVID model produced by the Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation at the University of Washington has estimated , deaths from COVID in the United States by Oct . Anthony Fauci, the US governments top infectiousdiseases expert, warned that the daily increase in COVID cases in the United States could go up to , if the current trend does not turn around. Behavior in real time is what drives the future and, as behavior changes, the models change, Schooley told Xinhua.