IMF virus global impact seen as shortlived
2020-02-25 03:37
International Monetary Fund IMF Managing Director Kristalina Georgieva speaks at an event hosted by Peterson Institute for International Economics in Washington D.C., the United States, on Jan , . XinhuaLiu Jie    Chinas economy should return to normal in the second quarter following the novel coronavirus outbreak, whose impact on the global economy should be relatively minor and shortlived, the top International Monetary Fund official said, as a senior Chinese banker also estimated the effect to be temporary. The Chinese authorities are working to mitigate the negative impact on the economy, with crisis measures, liquidity provision, fiscal measures and financial support, IMF Managing Director Kristalina Georgieva said Saturday at the Finance Ministers and Central Bank Governors Meeting of the Group of  in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia. The IMF chief said she had talked with Chinese central banker Yi Gang and other senior officials, assuring them of the global lenders support to Chinas policy measures. The meeting in Saudi Arabia is set to discuss risks of COVID to the global economy. The strain had claimed the lives of , people on the Chinese mainland, where confirmed cases had reached , by the end of Saturday. Earlier this month, Georgieva said the IMF was gathering data to assess the full impact of the coronavirus outbreak in China, but hopes to see a Vshaped recovery. On Saturday, the Bulgarian economist said the IMF is still learning about how the complex virus spreads, and the uncertainties are too great to permit reliable forecasting. Many scenarios can play out, depending on how quickly the virus is contained and how fast the Chinese and other affected economies return to normal, she said. In our current baseline scenario, announced policies are implemented and Chinas economy would return to normal in the second quarter, she said. As a result, the impact on the world economy would be relatively minor and shortlived. Growth of the worlds second largest economy would be . percent in , which is . percentage point lower than predicted in the IMFs World Economic Outlook in January, according to Georgieva. Global growth would be . percent, about . percentage point lower, she said. But we are also looking at more dire scenarios where the spread of the virus continues for longer and more globally, and the growth consequences are more protracted, she cautioned. Chen Yulu, deputy governor of the Peoples Bank of China, Chinas central bank, said the novel coronavirus contagion has exerted some downward pressure on Chinas economy, with transportation, tourism and offline shopping bearing the brunt, but it will not last long. Supported by a resilient economy and ample room for policy adjustments, the Peoples Bank of China expects a quick recovery after the outbreak is contained, Chen said in an article posted on the banks website on Sunday. The article was earlier published in the Financial Times. The central bank, with other financial regulators, rolled out  policy measures to support enterprises heavily affected by the epidemic, particularly small and micro ones, private enterprises and the manufacturing sector. It also has provided  billion yuan . billion in special central bank lending to large banks and selected local banks in Hubei and other severely hit provinces, with credit support at preferential interest rates going to manufacturers of essential medical supplies and daily necessities, Chen wrote. Chen noted that the central bank will continue to implement the financial policies designed to support epidemic prevention and control efforts and facilitate a postepidemic economic recovery. Such policies include strengthening countercyclical adjustment of monetary policy, adopting structural monetary policy instruments when necessary, and ensuring stable functioning of the financial markets, according to Chen. A recent survey of  companies from the United States and other APEC member economies found tax cuts and rentreduction are the two areas where companies believe the Chinese government can assist them to overcome the financial difficulties they face due to the outbreak. The survey on the extent of difficulties created by the epidemic, released by the American Chamber of Commerce in South China on Thursday, also found that regardless of the impact of the outbreak,  percent of the companies show high confidence in the future of Chinas economy and will not change their reinvestment plans.