ICU team makes real impact on front line
2020-02-06 09:14
Doctor Peng Zhiyong treats a patient infected with the novel coronavirus in Wuhan on Feb , . Photo by Gao XiangFor China Daily    The first coronavirus patient in Hubei province to be treated with extracorporeal membrane oxygenation therapy  which provides prolonged support for the heart and lungs  was discharged from Wuhan Universitys Zhongnan Hospital on Jan . It was the nd day that Peng Zhiyong, head of the department of critical care medicine at the hospital, and his team had worked on the front line combating the virus in Wuhan, the city where the outbreak started. In addition to the patient who was cured, the team has applied ECMO therapy to three other infected people one has been removed from the intensive care unit and one is still receiving ECMO support. The third patient died, despite being placed on one of the ECMO machines, which temporarily take over the work of the heart and lungs, allowing them to rest and heal. The treatment is used during lifethreatening conditions, such as severe lung damage from infection, and the process takes place outside the body, Peng said. ECMO is a lifesaving therapy that is used in the ICU when we have no other alternative, the yearold said, noting that it is only used when the usual treatments to ease oxygen deficit, such as inhaling oxygen with the help of breathing masks or tubes, have failed and the patient will die within a day. Each ECMO machine costs , to , yuan , to ,, resulting in the treatment costing nearly , yuan per patient. Thats why some of the infected patients who were given ECMO were later taken off the therapy,Peng said. He and his team work more than  hours a day in the ICUthe most poisonous ward, as he called itand have managed to keep the mortality rate to less than  percent. The strict preventative measures taken meant that only one of the strong team became infected with the virus, and even then the infected person only displayed minor symptoms. When he arrives at the hospital at  every morning, Peng takes his own temperature. Whoever has a fever must take a break that day. Before we enter the quarantine area, it takes  minutes to don our protective gear, he said, adding that the process involves wearing three layers of clothing. Peng and his team members have trained how to remove protective gowns that are contaminated with the virus. The virus is over almost the entire surface of our gowns, so it is easy for medical workers to get infected by touching contaminated areas, especially when they take off the dirty clothes, he said. He and his colleagues eat lunch sitting back to back to avoid close contact and possible transmission. Owing to a shortage of medical supplies in Wuhan, Peng only gets two sets of protective gowns during his period of duty, which lasts from  am to  pm every day. The lunch break is our only chance to drink, eat and go to the restroom in the whole day, he said. This is not the first time Peng has been on the front line in the battle against infectious disease, having treated patients during both the  outbreak of severe acute respiratory syndrome and the  avian flu epidemic. Although the lethality of the novel coronavirus has so far been much lower than SARS, we still cant underestimate it because the incubation period is longer and the symptoms are less obvious, he said. He acknowledged that he feels under greater pressure than before. Thats because he participated in the first two missions as an individual doctor, but this time he is the leader of an ICU team. I have to protect both the patients and medical workers in my team, he said, adding that he and his wife, also a medical professional in Wuhan, support each others work. We seldom have time to communicate, and we dont take smartphones with us during work, but we have a mutual understanding, he said. When a reporter from online portal The Paper asked what he will do when the epidemic is finally defeated, he replied,I will give my family a big hug.