Hydropower station in Nepal wins award
2020-11-13 17:03
The Upper Marsyangdi A Hydropower Station built by POWERCHINA was recently awarded an excellence certificate for foreign investment in Nepal by the Department of Industry, Government of Nepal.It was in recognition of the outstanding contribution made by the hydroelectric power project to the development of Nepals energy sector, as well as to attracting foreign investment.This is the first time a Chinesefunded venture has won the award in Nepal.Nepal, known as the mountain country, is a key national participant in the Belt and Road Initiative and is one of the important markets for POWERCHINA. The Upper Marsyangdi A Hydropower Station built by POWERCHINA is awarded an excellence certificate of foreign investment in Nepal. PhotoPOWERCHINASince entering commercial operations in January , the hydroelectric power station has successfully met challenges such as fragile local power grids, a high sediment content in rivers and excessive flooding. It has been operating safely for more than , days and to date has generated power totaling . billion kilowatt hours.It continuously supplies safe, stable and clean power to the Nepal national grid, effectively alleviating the countrys power shortages and resolving the problem of electricity rationing in the capital, Kathmandu.As the first hydroelectric power project funded and constructed by a Chinesefunded group in Nepal, the completed project had achieved outstanding milestones. These included entering commercial operations half a year ahead of schedule, realizing dividends eight years ahead of schedule and achieving new highs in annual power generation and power utilization hours.It demonstrated the huge advantages enjoyed by POWERCHINA in the integration of its entire industrial chain with its overseas investment activities. The power station has become a model for ChinaNepal energy cooperation and winwin development.POWERCHINAs project department also fulfilled its social responsibilities. It successively built roads, bridges, culverts, water supply systems, irrigation systems and other infrastructure for the local people.It also supported the construction of public facilities such as hospitals, schools, womens associations, temples, police stations and soccer fields. The Upper Marsyangdi A Hydropower Station built by POWERCHINA is the first hydroelectric power project invested in and constructed by a Chinesefunded enterprise in Nepal. PhotoPOWERCHINASince the outbreak of the COVID epidemic, POWERCHINA has donated , to Nepals national epidemic prevention and control funds, as well as epidemic prevention materials to the Nepal Electricity Authority.?