Hubei on way to economic resurgence
2020-05-13 09:58
A worker works in the Hubei Jiangshan Heavy Industries Co Ltds factory in Xiangyang, Hubei province, in midApril. PhotoXinhua    Enterprises production resumption rate close to national average level Ever since the novel coronavirus outbreak hit Wuhan, Hubei province, Hu Yan and her colleagues have been extremely busy. They have been working round the clock to produce medical supplies including protective gowns, medical caps and N surgical masks. Hu is the special assistant to the chairman of Crown Name Disposable Hygiene Products Fty Ltd, a Wuhanbased medical supplies manufacturer. From Jan  to May , the companys production capacity of protective clothing increased from , pieces to over , pieces per day, even higher than the level before the epidemic outbreak. Hu said that when the epidemic worsened in Wuhan during Spring Festival Jan Feb , most of the companys employees were on vacation and there were only around  people on duty in the factory. To meet the regions urgent need for medical supplies, the company immediately took action and mobilized workers to produce protective clothing. Within around six weeks, workers at the factory surged from around  to . In March, daily use of protective suits in Hubei was around , pieces, among which , pieces went to local medical staff and the rest were for assisting medical professionals from other regions of the country. Our company took the responsibility to provide roughly , pieces, said Li Sen, chairman of Crown Name. Amid the unprecedented virus outbreak and skyrocketing demand for protective clothing, we took steps to increase production capacity as much as possible while strictly ensuring product quality. We even raised product quality standards by one level, Li said. Since March , the epidemic situation has improved remarkably in Wuhan and Hubei province, but conditions overseas have worsened considerably. Crown Name switched its focus from domestic to foreign demand and ramped up efforts to offer medical materials to overseas markets. Within  days, the company received foreign orders worth  million from Europe, the United States, Australia and elsewhere. While ensuring domestic supplies, most of our products are now for export, said Li Qing, general manager of Crown Name. Crown Name currently has more than , employees, which is higher than the level before the epidemic broke out. Its production capacity for protective clothing has surpassed , pieces a day, and most of the products are now exported overseas. Data from the Hubei epidemic prevention and control command center showed that between March  and April , based on market activity and resumption of sales, Hubeis production recovery index reached . percent. By May , the worker return rate of the provinces ongoing construction projects valued at or above  million yuan  million was . percent, and the figure of Wuhan specifically was . percent. The Department of Economy and Information Technology of Hubei Province said the provincial government has been guiding and promoting orderly production resumption of industrial enterprises across the province since March . By April , the resumption rate of Hubeis industrial enterprises above a designated sizewith an annual revenue of  million yuan or abovereached . percent, and  percent of employees at these enterprises were back to work. Meng Chunlin, deputy director of the department, said Generally speaking, the production resumption rate of industrial enterprises above a designated size in Hubei is close to the national average level. Industrial enterprises that are related to healthcare, energy, daily necessities and agricultural production have witnessed a significant growth in their production resumption rate, said the department. Meng said that some bottlenecks that hinder enterprises from resuming operations still exist, including capital shortfalls, high costs, reduced orders and broken supply chains. The problems are especially obvious among micro, small and mediumsized enterprises, whose overall production resumption rate has not yet reached  percent. For some enterprises, although workers have returned and operations resumed, production capacity has not recovered to normal levels, he said. Liu Weijun, head of the departments SME development division, said the Hubei government has issued a series of favorable policies to support the production resumption of SMEs, including reducing or exempting taxes of the enterprises and lowering loan lending rates.