Hubei  fire services extended to include epidemic aid
2020-03-10 13:50
A firefighter disinfects waste bins outside a hotel in Wuhan, Hubei province, that housed medical workers earlier this month. PhotoXINHUA    The  fire services at all levels of Hubei province, the outbreak center of the novel coronavirus, have extended their service range to provide assistance related to the epidemic, an Ministry of Emergency Management official said on Tuesday. The measure is in accordance with the reality that the number of calls for help related to the epidemic increased after the implementation of closed management for communities in Hubei, said Qiong Se, director of the ministrys fire and rescue division. A total of , firefighters in Hubei have also been dispatched to form commandos to offer help. Wuhan, the capital city of Hubei, has  such teams cooperating with health departments to carry out disinfection and the transportation of patients, said Qiong. Hubeis fire services have received and handled more than , related tasks. The ministry has also formed  special antiepidemic disinfection teams with a total of  people to reinforce Hubei at any time. Fire and rescue teams across the country, according to the needs of the masses and the arrangements of local epidemic prevention headquarters, cooperate with other departments to transport epidemicaffected personnel and antiepidemic materials, and also disinfect sites, items and vehicles. In addition, they provide the services of drainage and emergency medicine delivery, he said. Up to now, a total of , such tasks have been completed,  of which were the transportation of personnel involved in the epidemic, and , related to transport of epidemic prevention materials. The fire rescue teams have also taken the initiative to serve key epidemic prevention sites including designated hospitals, makeshift hospitals and centralized isolation places to ensure safety. The national fire rescue teams have set up , guidance and service groups at different levels to provide services for designated hospitals and centralized isolation places, Qiong said. To support work resumption, the ministry has introduced different measures to help enterprises solve practical difficulties and resolve fire safety risks. Policies such as online certification and inspection service, fee suspension and appropriate reduction and exemption for companies producing fire control products have been implemented. According to Qiong, since the resumption of work after the Spring Festival holiday, Chinas fire and rescue teams have inspected and served , enterprises, and helped them rectify more than , fire hazards. So far, with the exception of two confirmed cases, , fire and rescue members are on duty. Chinas fire and rescue teams have, since Jan , accepted to , cases, rescued  people in distress and property with the value of  billion yuan.