Why the struggling property industry deserves special treatment
2020-04-13 09:43
Potential homebuyers look at property models in Nantong, Jiangsu province. Photo by Xu JinbaiFor China Daily    All businesses and industries have been under pressure since the start of the COVID pandemic, and the real estate market is no exception. The property industry deserves special attention, given its scale, long industry chain, and its huge influence on the nations economy, credit system, local finance, and employment. Data in the public domain showed that residential property developers have been facing a sales standstill for a couple of months. In most cities, both new and preowned home transaction volumes tumbled more than  percent yearonyear from Jan  to Feb  compared to figures of the same lunar period of last year. It was on Jan  that Wuhan, capital of Hubei province and the first epicenter of the epidemic, went into a peaceful lockdown. Some of the developers have reported nil deals since then. The  large and mediumsized Chinese cities Wind Info monitored reported that new home transaction volumes slumped . percent yearonyear during the week of Jan  to Jan . Worse was to follow. The figure nosedived as much as . percent during the week of Jan  to Feb . And although a growing number of people are returning to the cities they work and live in, home sales have remained at low levels. Whether or not home sales rise significantly in the near future will depend a lot on when the pandemic is brought under control and prevented from spreading further. Postponement of home deals for months could pose great challenges to capital flows of real estate companies. Some developers might put their residential projects on sale to ease off their credit crunch. We believe sections of property developers may face a tight financing situation both at home and abroad, and could run the risk of a potential rupture in cash flows. Since the tightening of housing policies in , financial institutions have been reducing the size of credit lines extended to real estate enterprises, to prevent excessive capital flows into the overheated industry. Their attempts may be warranted, but what also needs to be borne in mind now is that property developers are overpressured against a background of the ongoing pandemic. During the period of Jan  to Feb , the debt issued by  typical real estate companies totaled . billion yuan . million, plummeting  percent from a year ago. This year, property developers in general are facing enormous pressures of debt repayments and rising financial costs. According to international ratings agency Moodys, about . billion worth of domestic bonds and . billion worth of foreign bonds will become due or be on sale in the  months since Feb , which means developers will have a high demand for refinancing. Their financial expenditure is also facing a difficult scenario. According to a Pingan Securities report, listed property companies capital can merely support their overhead costs for three months, while privately held enterprises may feel more pressure on their liquidity. And the procrastination in the resumption of construction activity could raise developers financial costs further. While sticking to the principle that homes are for living in, not for speculation, we should recognize the importance of the property industry. First, we have to admit that real estate is important for the Chinese economy. Property investment is one of the three pillars of fixedasset investments. In , the combined .percent contribution of real estate  percent and construction of . percent was key to Chinas GDP. The property sectors significance would be even higher if sectors related to the real estate industry chain are taken into consideration. Second, the credit system and local public finance are closely connected with property. The occurrence of capital flow difficulties is a detriment to Chinas credit system. Taxes and fees collected from real estate account for important income for local administrations. The . trillion yuan collected from five categories of real estatespecific tax last year accounted for  percent of local tax revenues, and the . trillion yuan land transfer fees contributed . percent of local fiscal revenue in . Last but not least, the stability of the property industry matters to the massive number of employees working in real estate. In addition, all upstream and downstream businesses, along the industry chain, depend on the sector. About . million migrant workers were employed in the construction sector in , and . million urban population work in the real estate business. Considering the scale and importance of the Chinese property market, we suggest the following measures. The capital flow of real estate enterprises should be stabilized first, so as to avoid considerable negative impact on the nations economy and finance. Local governments must be encouraged to gradually ease the sales restrictions in accordance with their local conditions, so as to promote home purchases and ease the capital pressure on property developers. To date, the central governments macro policies and local governments regulations have eased to some extent the difficulties the real estate business has been confronting. We suggest more local policies for easing the credit pressure on property companies, moderate loosening of regulations and restrictions, discretional adjustments in taxation cuts and reliefs, and adequate support to real estate developers in accordance with their specific local conditions. Deng Yangmei is a member of the China Finance  Forum, a nongovernmental notforprofit think tank dedicated to policy research on economics and finance. Xu Qiyuan is a researcher at the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences.