Hotel chief sees bloom as spring blossoms
2021-02-23 13:28
Wearing a mask and disposable gloves, Michal Krauze sped around the restaurant of the Four Seasons Hotel in Tianjin, ensuring every dining table was properly disinfected, knowing that a wave of guests was on its way.It was a day before Lunar New Years Eve, and the Polish national had good reason to be excited about his work As China marked this years Spring Festival with the COVID pandemic largely contained, the hotels dining business is bouncing back alongside many other restaurants in China.Even though we set strict limitations on the guest flow and kept a certain distance between the tables, our Chinese restaurant had been fully booked for Spring Festival, and the buffet restaurant was  percent booked, says Krauze, director of food and beverage at the hotel.It is a special Chinese New Year for Krauze, who decided to stay in Tianjin with more than  staff members of the hotels six restaurants who followed the governments stayput advice. Instead of returning to Guangzhou to see his wife and daughters during the holiday, he wrote a card reading Wish you a prosperous and joyful Niu Year! and sent it home with a gift basket.Epidemic prevention and control need cooperation and team efforts. In this regard, China sets an example, Krauze says.As China has basically tamed the COVID outbreak, catering businesses are welcoming the return of foodies with stringent antiCOVID measures.Weve been back to full operations since April . Business was even better in the second quarter, Krauze says, noting that the Chinese governments fee and tax cut policy had greatly helped the hotel. He says the hotels food and beverage sales in December were up  percent from the same period in .Eyeing great opportunities in this years booming Spring Festival market, the hotels Jin House Chinese restaurant recruited new chefs and designed new dishes revolving around the ox, the zodiac sign for this Lunar New Year. His hotel has also adopted a series of measures to ensure the safety of diners, including limiting the number of guests, regularly sterilizing tableware, disinfecting all imported ingredients, and ensuring all chefs who handle food have been vaccinated.Having lived in China for more than  years, Krauze has witnessed tremendous changes in the countrys catering sector. The consumption level has been rising thanks to the growing middle class in China. I see increasing demand for wines and cocktails.According to official statistics, China was likely the only major economy to post growth in , with its GDP expanding . percent yearonyear and exceeding the trillionyuan . trillion threshold for the first time.Im very confident in Chinas economic growth. Everything has changed in a positive way. I see a lot of investments in Tianjin. We are very confident about our business this year, Krauze says.