Hong Kong imposes conditions on coming travelers from highrisk areas of COVID pandemic
2020-07-18 22:18
Visitors take photos of Hong Kong Island in South Chinas Hong Kong, July , . PhotoXinhua    HONG KONG  The government of Chinas Hong Kong Special Administrative Region HKSAR announced on Saturday that people who had stayed in Bangladesh, India, Indonesia, Nepal, Pakistan, the Philippines and South Africa  days before boarding a flight to Hong Kong must provide documents showing their negative results for COVID. Hong Kong had recorded  imported cases of COVID from June  to July , according to the HKSAR government. A spokesman for the Food and Health Bureau of the HKSAR government said that as the epidemic situation evolves and develops, taking into account the limited capacities of Hong Kongs quarantine and isolation facilities, the HKSAR government needs to implement measures to prevent imported cases. To this end, having regard to the latest public health risk assessment, we consider it necessary to impose conditions on travellers coming to Hong Kong from high risk places to reduce the health risk they may bring to Hong Kong, the spokesman added. According to the specifications by the Secretary for Food and Health of the HKSAR government, travelers from the above seven countries planning to come to Hong Kong are required to undergo a nucleic acid test for COVID, the sample for which was taken from the relevant traveller within  hours before the scheduled time of departure of the specified aircraft. The operator of the specified aircraft should submit to the Department of Health of the HKSAR government, before the aircraft arrives in Hong Kong, a document confirming that each relevant traveller has produced such documents. The travelers will have to undergo the COVID test on arriving Hong Kong and wait for the results at a designated location. If their test results are negative, they will be allowed to go to the hotels for which they made the reservation to continue the day compulsory quarantine. If their results are positive, they will be transferred to hospital for isolation and treatment, according to the specifications. The specifications were made in view of the development and severity of the COVID epidemic situation in Hong Kong. They will come into effect on July  and will remain effective until further notice. People who are in transit in Hong Kong and those who are exempted from compulsory quarantine will not be affected. Any traveler coming to Hong Kong fails to comply with the requirements to provide information, or knowingly or recklessly provides any information that is false or misleading in a material particular, is liable to a fine of HK, about , and imprisonment for six months.