Home economy sees growth from outbreak
2020-03-19 17:42
A yoga teacher gives lessons via a livestreaming platform in Guangzhou, capital of Guangdong province, on Feb . PhotoChina News Service    The homebody economy reached a wider population across the country, as a growing number of people shopped, studied, worked and amused themselves online at home during the novel coronavirus epidemic. The global measurement and data analytics company Nielsen on Thursday released a study on the homebody economy amid the COVID pandemic. The Chinese government rapidly responded to the epidemic by rolling out a series of comprehensive health and safety measures, effectively containing the virus. The moves have greatly strengthened the Chinese peoples confidence in overcoming the crisis, said Justin Sargent, president of Nielsen China. As the COVID has been gradually contained, Chinese consumers confidence in battling against the virus continues to improve. According to Nielsens survey,  percent of the surveyed consumers expressed confidence in Chinas victory over the outbreak. Their confidence in combating the virus mainly came from the Chinese governments appropriate preventive and control measures, as well as its timely and transparent disclosure of information. The results showed  percent of consumers approved of the way information was disclosed during the epidemic. A stable and sufficient supply of safety materials is essential for fighting off the disease. In the meanwhile, the fact consumers are staying at home and enjoying life has further stabilized their confidence in controlling the contagion. During the epidemic, efficient and fast online shopping has met daily consumption needs of residents. Diversified online entertainment and other applications continue to serve for leisure activity. In addition, spending more time with family members, friends and pets has also been positive for a large part of the population. According to the Nielsen study, technologies such as the internet, big data and media convergence helped news and information flow quickly. Treatment and quarantine measures were continuously implemented, risks were monitored in realtime and other new technologies like drones and telemedicine assisted in virus control. At the same time, although home quarantine has restricted people from outdoor activities, it can be seen contactless delivery services like OO fresh food platforms helped guarantee normalcy. These contactless services and online shopping made life convenient for consumers while also contributing to the success of disease prevention. Zheng Hao contributed to this story