Holiday expected to boost passenger flow
2020-05-01 07:11
Passengers head to board their train at Nanjing Railway Station on Thursday. More than  million domestic trips are expected to be made by Chinese passengers during the upcoming fiveday May Day holiday, according to the Ministry of Transport. YANG BOCHINA NEWS SERVICE    China is expected to see an uptick in travel during the fiveday May Day holiday as the coronavirus outbreak has leveled off across the country. However, the flow of travelers will be far below last years level, according to the Ministry of Transport. The country will see  million passenger trips during the holiday, or . million trips per day, ministry spokesman Wu Chungeng said at a news conference on Thursday. Although travel volume has been gradually rebounding, the expected daily figure is only . percent of last years daily passenger trip volume, he said, adding that most travelers would drive themselves shortdistances within provincial borders. This years May Day holiday, Friday to Tuesday, has been extended, Wu said, but the public has lost much of its desire to travel as epidemic prevention and control become a longterm norm. Cancellation of nonurgent travel is the current trend. In the civil aviation sector, . million trips are expected during the holiday, about , trips daily, according to the Civil Aviation Administration of China. Yu Biao, director of the administrations transport department, said on Thursday that daily passenger trips during the May Day holiday may increase by  percent compared with the threeday Tomb Sweeping Day holiday in early April. However, this holiday still marks a yearonyear drop of about . percent. The overall passenger load of flights, at no more than  percent, will be significantly lower than the same period of previous years, he added. The railway network is expected to handle a daily average of  million passengers during the holiday. Although that is only a third of last years figure, it shows an apparent increase over earlier days this year, according to the Ministry of Transport. Railways will operate about , passenger trains daily from Thursday to Tuesday, an increase of more than  trains over the preholiday period, and will add more trains in line with passenger flow changes, according to China State Railway Group, the countrys top railway operator. To boost travel, the railway system is offering discounts on over  intercity highspeed railway lines, cutting secondclass seat prices by up to  percent, the rail company said. With domestic travel on the upswing, the Ministry of Culture and Tourism has called for efforts to ensure safety. Travel agencies are required to conduct safety assessments of tourist products and tourist routes, to strengthen safety education for tour guides and to review the qualifications of chartered tourist vehicles and their drivers, Luo Shugang, minister of culture and tourism, said at a news conference on Thursday. Luo also said the ministry will enhance communication and coordination with public security, transportation, health and meteorological departments and intensify inspection for potential safety hazards. Cao Yin contributed to this story.