HK, Guangdong sign detailed plan to deepen cooperation
2020-11-02 16:04
This Dec ,  photo shows the east square of the new Hengqin port in Zhuhai, south Chinas Guangdong province. PhotoXinhua    Leaders of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region and Guangdong province on Friday concluded a new work plan on regional cooperation to further promote crossboundary personnel exchanges, as well as innovation and technology development in the region. Hong Kong Chief Executive Carrie Lam Cheng Yuetngor and Guangdong Governor Ma Xingrui cosigned the  Work Plan in the form of an exchange of letters. The work plan ironed out  measures covering eight key areas concerning crossboundary cooperation in infrastructure development and customs clearance facilitation, business, innovation technology, education, and professional services. The agreement was signed in an effort by the two places to build up the GuangdongHong KongMacao Greater Bay Area, a key strategic development plan of the nation. In , the central government mapped out an outline development plan for the Bay Area. The further collaboration, on the basis of the complementary and mutual benefits of the two places, aims to develop the region into an international innovation and technology hub and contribute to the nations Belt and Road Initiative, a spokesperson for the Hong Kong government said in a statement. In the meantime, the measures will improve the quality of life of the local people, the spokesperson added. Lo Waikwok, a legislator representing Hong Kongs engineering sector, told China Daily that the plans proposals to improve crossboundary transportation infrastructure will help realize the potential for further integration of Hong Kong into the mainland. With that in place, the region is expected to see continuing growth in the flow of people and materials with morefrequent economic exchanges in the future, he added. There is room for development in the existing transportation network if the crossboundary restrictions can be optimized. For example, more vehicles, including private cars, could be licensed to use the Hong KongZhuhaiMacao Bridge in the future, allowing residents on both sides of the Pearl River to live in a onehour economic circle, Lo said. Lo also noted a proposal for a robust joint epidemic prevention and control mechanism between the two places, especially for the resumption and enhancement of communication in the region under the pandemic. He said that the two places have been maintaining communication and coordination on the experience of the SARS outbreak in . In the current digital era, a moretimely and comprehensive information exchange would allow the two regions to act more quickly in cases of emergencies and to track the spread of viruses more effectively, he said. Apart from the flow of people, the two places are expected to work on facilitating the flow of crossboundary use of scientific research funds, a major move that would see a push in the citys science and research sector. Wong Kamfai, a professor at the Faculty of Engineering at the Chinese University of Hong Kong, said that crossboundary use of scientific research funds would encourage more Hong Kong researchers to participate in mainland projects. As a result, the cuttingedge scientific results of Hong Kong universities would have a greater chance of having industrial applications, and even to take part in some national projects. In addition to the flow of funds, Wong hoped the two places would facilitate the crossboundary exchanges of international researchers, such as issuing multipleentry visas for the foreign researchers in their international teams so that they could also contribute their wisdom to mainland projects. The work plan also proposes making it easier for Hong Kong residents to live on the mainland and work with mainland partners. The Hong Kong residents would be able to open personal accounts at mainland banks remotely, to purchase property, and to join a basic pension plan in their cities of residence if they meet certain conditions. The spokesman said that the Hong Kong government will cooperate with the Guangdong government as soon as possible to implement the measures in the  Work Plan and to proactively move forward the development of the Greater Bay Area.