HK to launch health code system in December ahead of border reopening
2021-11-26 08:38
People line up at the Shenzhen Bay checkpoint on Nov  to enter the Chinese mainland. Photo provided to China Daily    Hong Kong has basically met the requirements for resuming quarantinefree travel with the Chinese mainland, and a local health code system will be launched in early December, Chief Secretary John Lee Kachiu said on Thursday. His comments came after a meeting with mainland officials and experts in Shenzhen, Guangdong province. Lee offered no timetable on the resumption of quarantinefree travel, but said the daily quota and other measures related to the reopening are being discussed. The meeting, attended by mainland experts and officials from the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region, Guangdong, and the central government, was the second facetoface talks on epidemiccontrol collaboration between representatives of the mainland and Hong Kong. Earlier this week, a mainland delegation of experts finished a fourday visit in Hong Kong to examine the citys epidemiccontrol system. Lee told media that the mainland experts said that Hong Kong had basically met the requirements for resuming quarantinefree travel, as it had adopted effective antiepidemic measures. He also cited Huang Liuquan, deputy head of the Hong Kong and Macao Affairs Office of the State Council, who said that the Hong Kong governments antiepidemic strategy is consistent with that of the central government. Noting that the meetings atmosphere was positive and good, Lee said Hong Kong and mainland experts will continue to exchange views on the matter. He said the government is preparing for an orderly and gradual resumption of quarantinefree travel with the mainland. The measures will include a health code system, checkpoint management and contingency plans to identify and screen for risks. Lee said the health code will be done in conjunction with the contacttracing app LeaveHomeSafe in order to document a users travel history. Secretary for Innovation and Technology Alfred Sit Winghang said the Hong Kong SAR government will brief the public about the health code system next week and a user guide will be provided before its official launch in December. Secretary for Food and Health Sophia Chan Siuchee, who also participated in the meeting, said the government will strive to ensure that the border reopening will not cause additional risks to the nation, and added that Hong Kong will work hard to prevent any pandemic resurgence. Chan added that highrisk and highexposure groups will be required to have COVID tests every two days. Currently, such groups are mostly required to undergo testing every three days. To align with the mainlands standards, the Hong Kong government has bolstered antiepidemic measures. Starting on Dec , visitors to  kinds of leisure venues such as restaurants, gyms, hotels and cinemas will be required to scan the venues QR code in the LeaveHomeSafe app before entering the premises. As of Thursday, . million peopleover  percent of Hong Kongs population eligible for vaccinationhave received at least one dose of COVID vaccine. More than , of them have received the third dose as a booster.