HK opposition camp accused of putting politics above public health
2020-07-22 07:50
Rita Fan Hsu Laitai, former Hong Kong member of the Standing Committee of the National Peoples Congress. PhotoChina Daily    Former head of Hong Kongs legislature Rita Fan Hsu Laitai has slammed opposition parties for placing politics before public health by holding crowded events despite the COVID pandemic. Fan, speaking on Tuesday, said the opposition held public activities including regular antigovernment assemblies in early July and socalled primary polls on July  and , days before the third wave of the outbreak struck the city. Fan, also a former Hong Kong member of the Standing Committee of the National Peoples Congress, made the remarks in an interview with China Daily, at a time when the citys COVID tally has reached , cases. The opposition camp set up  polling stations across the city during the twoday primary election, and according to them, more than , voters cast their ballots. Its dangerous to call people to line up and cast their ballots without any special precautions to prevent crossinfection, Fan said. The overall impression I got from the preelection is that the opposition camp cares more about their political gains than the health of their supporters, Fan said. With the Legislative Council election, scheduled for Sept , drawing closer, Fan also suggested the government consider postponing the election in view of the worsening epidemic. This is not a suitable time for the Legislative Council election. For the election candidates, they need to campaign in the streets and reach out to the voters, but that will result in a lot of people getting together and will pose a very huge health risk. The government needs to consider and sort out a legal basis to postpone the election, she said, echoing the call of several other proestablishment figures. Earlier, Hong Kong Senior Counsel Ronny Tong Kawah, and members of the Executive Council of the Chief Executive Carrie Lam Cheng Yuetngor, suggested the government invoke the Emergency Regulations Ordinance or the Prevention and Control of Disease Requirement and Directions Regulation to delay the election for a maximum of three months. Some other experts suggested that if the election were to be delayed, the government should consider forming a provisional legislature to avoid a vacuum. In Fans view, postponing the election is a viable option because its uncertain whether the outbreak can be controlled in the following month and a half. As far as I know, the election can only be postponed for  days in accordance with the electoral law, Fan suggested. If the election could be postponed for more than  days until the situation becomes more stable, Fan thinks it would not only protect residents health, but also give the Electoral Affairs Commission, the citys election watchdog, more time to mull over measures to deal with voter complaints and hold a fair and impartial election.