HK extends quarantine rules for mainland arrivals till June
2020-04-28 19:58
A woman walks to the departure hall of Shenzhen Bay Port Hong Kong Port Area on Feb , . PhotoAgencies    HONG KONG  Secretary for Food and Health Sophia Chan Siuchee on Tuesday announced the extension to June  the day mandatory quarantine of arrivals who are from or have been to the Chinese mainland, Macao and Taiwan in the past two weeks. The arrangement, which has taken effective since Feb  to contain the COVID pandemic, was due to expire on May . The extended arrangement, however, will exempt crossboundary students and their accompanied carers. Also exempted from quarantine are people involved in manufacturing operations, business activities, or professional services, whose traveling is considered to be in Hong Kongs interests or beneficial to its economic development. Persons such as drivers of crossboundary goods delivery vehicles, crew members of arriving passenger and cargo planes, and crew members of cargo ships and fishing boats, will remain exempted from the mandatory quarantine. The detailed application procedures to seek exemption are still under discussion. The announcement came after Hong Kong reported no new infection of the novel coronavirus pneumonia on Tuesday, the third day in a row, and the fifth time in the past nine days. As of  pm Tuesday, the citys tally of novel coronavirus cases remained at ,, according to the Centre for Health Protection CHP of the Department of Health. Chan said the mainland has flattened the curve on the COVID epidemic, but Hong Kong needs to prevent the spread of a possible second round of infection caused by crossboundary traffic and imported cases from overseas. Noting that the pandemic outbreak in some overseas regions has remained severe, Chan warned residents to stay vigilance and observe social distancing rules. If the epidemic is controlled well, the HKSAR government will announce whether to cancel the quarantine for arrivals from the mainland and anad Macao after discussion, Chan said. The CHP also urged Hong Kong residents to avoid all nonessential travel outside Hong Kong. With Xinhua inputs