Hilton to open th hotel in China
2021-11-16 11:08
Qian Jin, president of Hilton Greater China and Mongolia. Photo provided to chinadaily.com.cn    Hilton Group, the global hospitality giant, will open next month its th hotel in Lanzhou, Northwest Chinas Gansu province, showing a strong commitment to its longterm plan to run , hotels in Chinas lucrative market by . China is Hiltons second largest market with abundant tourism resources, diverse consumer groups and a booming urban economy. Therefore, we look at the national market from a holistic view and never give up on any place where there is a chance to take root and provide services to customers, said Qian Jin, president of Hilton Greater China and Mongolia. While expanding its presence in Chinas luxury hotel market, the executive said Hilton will continue to drive Hilton Garden Inn HGI development and deepen its cooperation with partners, including the launch of the Home brand in cooperation with Funyard Hotel Investment Asia Limited, a subsidiary of Chinas Country Garden Holdings Co Ltd, and the renewal of the Hampton by Hilton brand agreement with Shanghaiheadquartered Jin Jiang International in the coming years. These partnerships will help promote the acceleration of our openings in the coming years, he said, adding that, with guest demand becoming more refined and the market more mature, the group is keen to tap into the immense potential of focused service travelers. Eager to further enhance its footprint, Hilton launched a largescale franchise model in Shenzhen, South Chinas Guangdong province, starting with its Hilton Garden Inn brand in late September. As economic growth data and research results show that second and thirdtier cities are the main markets for upper midscale hotels, driven by accelerated urbanization, Hilton found that the purchasing power of their residents is continuously growing, while management costs are still at a comparatively low level. Under such circumstances, Qian said that the group will actively seize emerging development opportunities and strive to develop markets in lowertier cities during the countrys th FiveYear Plan  period. Apart from deploying more resources and manpower to support Chinas dualcirculation growth paradigm, he said the national development strategy of each key area in China has pointed out the direction for Hiltons development in China. The companys businesses can be seen in the regions and provinces related to the GuangdongHong KongMacao Greater Bay Area and the Belt and Road Initiative, as well as places throughout Chinas western region. Chinas tourism industry has adapted to the current situation of regular epidemic prevention and control, with growing market demand and more innovative business models and growth points, said Zhang Yongjun, a researcher at the China Center for International Economic Exchanges. With the rigorous implementation of regular epidemic prevention, Chinas tourism market has gradually recovered since the beginning of this year, he noted. The number of domestic tourists in China reached . billion during the first half of , rising by . percent on a yearly basis. The gross revenue of domestic tourism hit . trillion yuan . billion, up . percent from the same period a year earlier, data from the Ministry of Culture and Tourism showed.