Herbal remedies growing in popularity globally
2020-04-23 09:43
Employees pack epidemic prevention and control remedies at Jiuxin TCMs factory in Wuhan, capital of Hubei province, in midApril. Photo provided to China Daily    In the wake of the novel coronavirus pandemic, traditional Chinese medicine has been found to boost immunity and relieve symptoms, thus prompting domestic TCM enterprises to find ways to use their remedies in the global anticontagion struggle. Jiuxin TCM donated , doses of its medicine to Chinese living in Kenya, Australia and the United Kingdom. Zhu Zhiguo, general manager of Jiuxin, said Over the past two months, during the hardest times of Chinas fight against the COVID pandemic, overseas Chinese and many others helped us. Today, COVID is under better control in China, but it is now rampant in other countries. He said the companys COVID TCM formula, which was written according to the National Health Commissions guidelines on the prevention and control of novel coronavirus pneumonia, had played a crucial role in Wuhans fight against the epidemic. He Jun, dean of Italybased Qihuang College of TCM, said that sharing TCM formula is an important way for TCM to go global. At first, TCM formula circulated overseas were only welcome among Chinese communities. As the epidemic situation became more severe overseas, nonChinese also began hitting the stores to buy Chinese medicinal herbs, and TCM formulas grew in popularity. As reported by Reuters, as COVID rapidly spread across the United States, demand for TCM among the general population skyrocketed. Some immunityboosting Chinese herbs, together with TCM granules, were quickly sold out. As TCM orders soared over a short period of time, many stores had to limit the amount customers could buy. Medical materials that originally took two to three weeks to sell out are now sold out in just a few days. We are thinking of a quicker way of inventory restocking, a TCM store owner in New York told Reuters. Zhang Boli, an academician at the Chinese Academy of Engineering, said the comprehensive, early and indepth intervention of TCM during the fight against coronavirus was unprecedented and has achieved remarkable results. Domestic TCM companies should take credit for guaranteeing supplies of products. When the contagion broke out in Wuhan in late December, Jiuxin actively shouldered the responsibility of guaranteeing TCM supplies. It shipped dozens of units of medicinepreparing equipment from Shanghai and other places, running  hours a day to ensure the supply of tens of thousands of Chinese herbal remedies.