Henan death toll climbs to  as recovery efforts continue
2021-07-29 16:48
People ride on a waterlogged road in Zhengzhou, capital of Central Chinas Henan province, July , . PhotoXinhua    The death toll in Central Chinas Henan province from heavy rainfall and flooding has reached  as of noon Thursday, and over . million people were affected, the latest figures from the provincial government showed. The newly added  deaths were all from Zhengzhou, the capital city of Henan. Among them,  were found in Xinmi and  in Xingyang, two countylevel cities under the administration of Zhengzhou. The disasters also affected over . million hectares of crops, with over , hectares wiped out. About , houses collapsed and another , were severely damaged. The disaster has caused direct economic losses reaching nearly  billion yuan . billion. Seven flood detention systems have been used in the Weihe River basin to drain the floodwater, and currently four large reservoirs and  mediumsized reservoirs are still exceeding the flood limit, said Li Changxun, deputy head of the provinces emergency management department. For  hours starting at  am on Wednesday, heavy rain brought by the typhoon InFa hit six cities in Henan, with  rainfall stations in the province detecting an accumulated rainfall of more than millimeters during the period, Li said. The provincial government on Wednesday issued six documents focusing on the postdisaster recovery and reconstruction, financial support, health and epidemic prevention, to effectively and accurately restore the affected sectors. Zhang Jiangtao, deputy secretarygeneral of the Zhengzhou municipal government, said the government is speeding up the construction of emergency repairs and restoration of traffic orders. Zhang said from Wednesday to Aug , all buses in Zhengzhou are free for passengers, and the authorities have also set up three taxi and ridehailing fleets to facilitate peoples travel and ease traffic pressure. Currently, Zhengzhou has , taxis and , online ridehailing vehicles in operation. Xunxian county and Qixian county in Hebi city were also severely affected by the flood, as several rivers go through the two counties, and the counties hold six of the provinces  flood storage and detention areas. These areas are adjacent to each other, making the accumulated water more severe, said Hong Limin, vicemayor of Hebi. As of  pm Wednesday, about , in Xunxian county and , people in Qixian county were affected by the flood, Hong said. To prevent pandemic outbreaks after the flood, the city has also carried out a cleanup and epidemic prevention campaign throughout the city, with , dead livestock and poultry having been treated in harmless ways,  villages and communities having been disinfected and  drinking water spots having been tested, Hong added.