Health initiative raises awareness on safe return to school
2020-09-02 14:31
First Health Class Back to School, part of national public welfare lectures on health for primary and middle school students, was launched on Tuesday. Photo provided to chinadaily.com.cn    First Health Class Back to School, part of a series of national public welfare lectures on health for primary and middle school students hosted by the Shanghai Health Promotion Center, was launched on Tuesday to help students take measures in preparing the resumption of classes this month. The initiative aims to guide students to form good health habits under the normalization of the pandemic, encouraging them to stay healthy while studying in the new semester. Requested by the National Health Commission and Ministry of Education, schools should carry out health education and incorporate COVID prevention knowledge into the first lesson of this semester to help students develop good hygiene habits. The class has engaged experts to offer their advice regarding exercise, diet, psychological health and hygiene. Wei Xu, vice principal of Beijing Minzu Elementary School, said Schools are a key place for epidemic prevention and control. Student health and campus safety are related to thousands of households. Schools must enhance our vigilance in epidemic prevention and control.  Michael Jiang, general manager of Zespri Greater China, who served as ambassador to advocate nutrition and health knowledge to children for the lectures, said Children are the future and hope of the country. Facing the challenges raised by the pandemic, students safely and healthily attending school requires not only effort from the school and family, but also societys support. As the worlds leading kiwi brand, Zespri is committed to providing local consumers with nutritious fruit while actively responding to the call of Healthy China with nutrition and health knowledge. Zespri provided more than , health packs for children in nearly  primary and secondary schools and kindergartens across the country.