Health code lessons from Zhejiang to strengthen fight against coronavirus
2020-02-19 07:23
A passenger uses a green health code to board a bus in Hangzhou on Feb , . Photo provided to chinadaily.com.cn    It has been reported that a national, unified epidemic prevention and control health code systembased on Zhejiang provinces pilot practice in public management during the current epidemicwill be launched next week. This shows the important role a digitized public management tool can play in fighting an epidemic. The health code refers to an individual QR code giving a persons identity and health condition, registered online by the user. The code serves as a regional traffic permit to ensure orderly population flow during an epidemic. The system was launched in Hangzhou, capital of Zhejiang province, for urban and enterprise management during the novel coronavirus outbreak. More than  million people visited the site on the day it was launched. Such a health code can help effectively monitor the whole populations health condition and movement, making it an essential tool during an epidemic to reduce contact with someone who is infected or has shared space with an infected person. A health code system has been launched in several cities and will now be promoted nationwide. Epidemic control and resumption of work by enterprises are both crucial to win the battle against the virus. If enterprises are unable to restart operations, peoples normal lives and epidemic control work will both be seriously hit because of a supply shortage. We should, as much as possible, also reduce the risk of the epidemic spreading after the enterprises restart operations. The invention and use of the health code within a short time shows the great power and advantage of a digitized management tool and big data in urban management, public health management and business administration. It not only provides a rapid, convenient and contactless channel for personal data collection, which is crucial to preventing the spread of the novel coronavirus, but also helps local authorities and enterprises monitor an epidemic situation in real time and effectively prevent and control its spread. In addition, it creates a smooth network for local authorities, public health institutions, citizens, enterprises and employees, and enables a rapid response to any public health emergency. It is hoped that more Internet Plus technologies and products are invented soon to help win the battle against the virus.