Head of Malaysias leading business group positive on CIIE to boost winwin cooperation
2020-11-04 17:04
Night view of the National Exhibition and Convention Center Shanghai, the host venue for the CIIE. PhotoCIIE Bureau    KUALA LUMPUR  The third China International Import Expo will serve as a testimony of Chinas containment of the COVID outbreak and realization of economic recovery while also boost winwin cooperation between China and the world, said head of the Associated Chinese Chambers of Commerce and Industry of Malaysia. The fact that the third CIIE would be held as scheduled is a testimony of Chinas achievement in containing the outbreak and the speeding up of economic growth domestically, as well as Chinas active effort in facilitating recovery in global trade, President of ACCCIM Ter Leong Yap told Xinhua in an interview ahead of the CIIE to be opened in Shanghai on Wednesday. These all made the third CIIE an international event of great significance, he said. Despite the challenges brought by the pandemic, Ter said Malaysian participating organizations and companies are full of expectations and high hopes that this years CIIE will be even more exciting despite COVID, as the organizers have taken various steps on prevention and control to make the event a complete success. This years CIIE will be held in a larger exhibition area and will include new sections on public health and epidemic prevention, energy conservation and environmental protection, and smart travel. It will also see the launch of cloud signing and cloud roadshow modes, which will fully demonstrate online and offline technologies as part of the trend towards better integration. Since its inception, CIIE has received strong support from Malaysias government and business community, said Ter. ACCCIM has also played an active role in promoting and organizing Malaysian companies to participate in the past two expos. Despite the travel restrictions and uncertainties due to COVID, ACCCIM has organized several Malaysian companies to physically participated in the expo, which mainly engaged in local products loved by Chinese consumers, such as birds nest, coffee, traditional health products and beverages, among others. In addition, ACCCIM has also promoted economic and trade cooperation through online negotiations and video conferences, creating new business opportunities for companies from both countries. Earlier in September, ACCCIM signed an agreement with the Bank of China to allow companies that cannot participate physically in the CIIE to negotiate with entrepreneurs from all over the world through online trade and investment platform hosted by the latter. ACCCIM is a leading business group in Malaysia representing Malaysian Chinese companies, individuals and trade associations in particular and the Chinese business community in general. For Ter, Chinas rapid and successful response to the pandemic in the early stage, including promptly releasing information such as the gene sequence of the virus, has laid a solid foundation for Chinas economic recovery. Chinas strong measures and positive results in response to the outbreak are obvious to all. This is also the key to Chinas rapid economic recovery, he said. According to the data released by the National Bureau of Statistics of China, Chinas economy expanded by . percent yearonyear in the third quarter, higher than the .percent growth in the second quarter, which also drove Chinas economic growth from negative to positive in the first three quarters. Ter said  has been a year that both China and Malaysia have had to face the pandemic and its impact, but which in return has drawn the two countries closer together. In addition to donating medical and essential supplies to each other, Chinese medical experts had been to Malaysia to share experience in fighting COVID, he said. China is already on the way to moving past the pandemic and the MalaysiaChina economic and trade exchanges and even the global market have gained renewed confidence and momentum, he added. Ter said the Malaysian business community is very pleased with the close cooperative relations between both countries and also looks forward to the broader prospects of trade development between China and the Association of Southeast Asian Nations. I believe that the third CIIE is an important move for China to build a dual cycle development pattern and demonstrate its determination of further openingup, facilitating mutually beneficial and winwin development for countries, he said.