Have zest, will travel
2020-11-02 09:15
Tourists in Jiuquan, Gansu province, enjoy the Jinta desert poplar forest parks autumn scenery on Oct , when the forest puts up its best show of the year. Photo by?Su YangFor China Daily    Golden Week boom promises to turn tourism into economic driver with new winter tours and services On Thursday, when Chinas top leadership stressed that domestic consumption will anchor the nations longterm plans for stable postCOVID economic growth, executives of major tourism agencies were delighted as it confirmed that their recent shift in focus from overseas group tours to domestic tourism was timely and strategic. For instance, Caissa Touristic, a Beijingbased travel agency, sees potential for big growth in domestic tourism, as Chinas new priorities under the dual circulation development pattern identify domestic consumption sectors, including tourism, as key to future growth. The tourist rush seen during the eightday holiday period in early October confirmed Caissas view. Although the haze of the epidemic has not yet completely dissipated, the Golden Weekthe National Day and MidAutumn Festival holiday periodsaw  million people travel across China, generating . billion yuan  billion in revenue for the domestic travel and tourism industry. Bookings for tours, hotel rooms, domestic flights and passenger train seatsberths rebounded rapidly. The holiday rush took domestic tourism demand to prepandemic levels with  provinces notching up revenues of more than  billion yuan each during the period, according to the Ministry of Culture and Tourism. With the gradual recovery of Chinas economy on the back of effective contagioncontrol measures, postCOVID domestic travels have been on the rise, stoking enormous demand for tourismrelated consumption from Chinese citizens as well as expatriates. Subbarao Tata, Shanghaibased representative of an Indian chemical firm, said he and his wife Aruna spent around , yuan on a sixday group tour of the northeastern parts of the Inner Mongolia autonomous region organized by OK Deal, a travel firm, during the Golden Week. Every yuan we spent was well worth it because we got to travel after several months of being mostly indoors in Shanghai due to the epidemic. The landscapes and vistas were stunning with their autumn colors. The SinoRussian border area of Shiwei near Erguna offered us some unique, unforgettable cultural experiences, said Subbarao. Our group of  comprised expatriates from the US, Guatemala, Argentina, Ukraine, Germany, India, Singapore and Canada, and it was wonderful for all of us to be able to appreciate spectacular natural beauty, experience local hospitality and savor Mongolian cuisine, including its fresh dairy products.