Hardesthit city reopens Yellow Crane Tower
2020-04-30 09:30
The Yellow Crane Tower, a landmark tourist attraction in Wuhan, Central Chinas Hubei province, reopens to the public on April , . Photo by Li ZiyunFor chinadaily.com.cn    After being closed for  days, Wuhans landmark Yellow Crane Tower reopened on Wednesday morning, marking the latest sign the city is getting back to normal. Li Lei, deputy director of the parks management office, said it signals that the epidemic is ebbing in Wuhan, Hubei province, and marks the revitalization of the tourism industry in the city. The park invited volunteers and frontline workers combating the epidemic in the cityincluding medical workers, police, couriers and reportersfor a special bell ringing ceremony, hoping the city will fully return to normal soon. All volunteers and frontline workers in Wuhan can get free tickets to visit the park as many times as they want until the end of next year, Li said. The scenic park will be open from  am to  pm, with the number of visitors capped at , daily, according to the management office. Visitors need to book tickets online in advance and scan their ID card or QR code at the entrance to enter the park, following a temperature check and a green health code, an indication they are free of COVID symptoms, the office said. Indoor scenic areas remain closed only the main tower has opened its corridors. Visitors should wear masks and keep proper distance from each other, it said. The park has lowered ticket prices from  yuan to  yuan  to . It has also prepared free disinfectant for visitors and will conduct sterilization and disinfection twice every day. Hua Yuchen, a music teacher and volunteer who had assumed different posts during the epidemic, said she is thrilled to see the reopening. One time, we were exhausted after unloading a lot of epidemic prevention materials from a truck. We saw the tower shimmering in the dark, and it gave us the hope and courage to carry on. Zhang Yating, a stayathome mother, brought her month son to visit the park on Wednesday. We stayed indoors for more than three months, and we are beyond happy to breathe the fresh air and enjoy the beautiful scenery, she said. Cai Shuliang, a volunteer driver, said he came to the park as a reward for his bravery in helping others during the epidemic. He volunteered to drive patients with chronic disease to the hospital to get treatment and medicine and transported daily necessities to residents from Jan  to April . I will resume work as a driver on Thursday, and I hope that I can make up for the losses over the past three months, he said. Hubei will open  of its major tourist attractions during the upcoming Labor Day holiday in May, with the number of tourists capped at  percent of the maximum capacity, the provincial department of culture and tourism said.