Hainan requires day quarantine for travelers from highrisk regions
2020-03-07 15:30
Staffers disinfect the cabin of a passenger plane at the Haikou Meilan International Airport on March , . PhotoXinhua    Hainan has rolled out a special regulation to all checkpoints to strengthen COVID prevention and control efforts. It requires those coming to Hainan from countries afflicted by the virus to receive a day quarantine upon their arrival. Those with respiratory symptoms,?fever, chills, fatigue, diarrhea and congestion of the conjunctiva detected by the?entry?and exit officials will be sent to designated hospitals for further screening, according to the regulation. Those who arrive in Hainan from South Korea, Italy, Iran and Japan or have been to these countries during the past two weeks will be sent to designated places for centralized medical observation. Expats from countries without COVID epidemics who have jobs or residences in Hainan will register at the communities they live in and quarantine at home after they arrive in Hainan. Those who have no permanent place to live or travel to in Hainan will be sent to designated places for centralized medical quarantine. The newly released regulation also suggests newcomers maintain good personal hygiene during travel, such as washing hands frequently, wearing masks and avoiding close contact with patients with acute respiratory infections. If they have respiratory symptoms, fever, chills, fatigue, diarrhea, conjunctival congestion and other uncomfortable symptoms, they should take the initiative to declare this to customs and cooperate to complete screening measures such as a temperature check and medical examination. If the above symptoms occur during their flight, they should inform the flight crew in time and those in charge should provide passengers with protective equipment and report to customs at the port of entry and exit in a timely manner. For more healthcare information, please visit the official website of the?National Health Commission?or?Hainan Provincial Health Commission?or call the  or  hotlines for consultation.