Guangzhou calls on expats to abide by antivirus rules
2020-04-13 08:54
Guangzhou treats all foreigners equally, but foreign residents should also abide by the local epidemic prevention regulations, city officials said at a news conference on Sunday. We take the same prevention and control measures for all people entering Guangzhou regardless of their nationality, race and gender, Liu Baochun, director of the citys foreign affairs office, said at the news conference. Guangzhou is an open, international metropolis and treats all foreign people equally. We oppose all forms of differentiation for a specific group of people, Liu said. Liu noted that the city improved its service mechanism to avoid misunderstandings or improper behavior due to poor communication in its health management services. We hope that foreign residents of Guangzhou will strictly abide by local epidemic prevention regulations and work together with us to do a good job in epidemic prevention and control and work resumption, Liu said. Cai Wei, spokesman for the Guangzhou public security bureau, said all foreigners in Guangzhou should strictly comply with Chinese law and are obliged to accept the examination of their passports and other identity documents by public security organs. Since March , Guangzhou has demanded all arrivals from overseas undergo a day quarantine and nucleic acid testing for the novel coronavirus disease. By Saturday, , people from highrisk countries had been tested in Guangzhou,  people were under centralized medical observation and , were isolated at home. Guangzhou reported  imported cases of the disease as of midnight on Saturday, according to Mayor Wen Guohui. Of the  imported cases,  concerned foreigners and  were Chinese. As of Friday, , foreigners live in Guangzhou, mostly from the Republic of Korea, Japan, the United States, Canada and Russia. Almost  percent of foreigners in the city are from African countries. Wen promised to further expand Sinoforeign cooperation with major cities around the world to fight the pandemic, share the citys experience and provide procurement convenience in the months ahead. Guangzhou has  monitoring and inspection centers for COVID where foreigners and others returning from highrisk nations are guided to report their health condition and undergo nucleic acid testing, Wen said. Liu said city departments have established a task force of senior medical experts and doctors to offer medical treatment to all patients in the city. All patients, no matter where they come from, are treated equally in the city, he said. Xinhua contributed to this story. zhengcaixiongchinadaily.com.cn ?       ? ?