Guangdong virus situation stable after  cases Friday
2020-08-17 08:24
Customs workers check an inbound passengers health information card in Shenzhen Bay Port in Shenzhen, South Chinas Guangdong province, on April , . PhotoXinhua    The novel coronavirus situation remains largely stable in South Chinas Guangdong province, with no new local infections reported after six domestically infected cases were announced on Friday, according to a provincial health official. A yearold woman, who worked at a Hema Fresh supermarket in Shenzhen, was confirmed as having COVID after she returned to her hometown in Shanwei, Guangdong. Three of her family members and two of her coworkers at the supermarket tested positive for the virus but had no symptoms. The six became the first domestically infected people in the province since April only imported cases were reported before them since that date. The epidemic situation remains largely stable in Guangdong, but epidemic control remains grave and complicated as the risk of infections imported from other parts of the country and world remains, said Duan Yufei, director of the provincial health commission, at a news conference on Sunday. The risk of scattered new cases still exists. Workplaces and residences in Shenzhen and Shanwei related to the new cases were put under strict management. Cinema operations in Shanwei were suspended. Since the new infections were found, , samples in Shanwei and , samples from people and the environment in Shenzhen have been tested, Duan said. Daily testing capacity in Shanwei has been boosted from , to ,. Shenzhen has a daily testing capacity of ,. A daily capacity of more than , tests can be shifted to places in need in Guangdong, Duan said. The incubation period of coronavirus is generally three to seven days. Early detection and isolation are the most effective methods to curb the virus spread, prominent infectious disease expert Zhong Nanshan said in a media interview on Sunday. A massive spread of the virus is not possible in Guangdong, he said. A total of , samples had been tested from  Hema Fresh supermarkets and  businesses related to the chain in Guangdong, with the focus placed on imported frozen meat and aquatic products, said Mai Jiaomeng, director of the provincial administration for market regulation. The province has stepped up testing at produce markets, supermarkets, food companies, cold storage facilities and coldchain logistics firms. Three samples from frozen chicken wings imported from Brazil and stored in a facility in Longgang district, Shenzhen, tested positive. The virus on the chicken wings was not active and could not infect humans, said Deng Huihong, director of the provincial Center for Disease Control and Prevention. The produce market in Guangdong remains safe and under control, Mai said. ?