Greater Bay Area seen as strategic step
2021-04-24 07:05
Chinese Vice Premier Han Zheng, also a member of the Standing Committee of the Political Bureau of the Communist Party of China Central Committee and head of the leading group for developing the GuangdongHong KongMacao Greater Bay Area, presides over a meeting of the group in Guangzhou, capital of South Chinas Guangdong province, April , . PhotoXinhua    VicePremier Han Zheng calls for promotion of regional cooperation VicePremier Han Zheng has called for earnest efforts to advance the building of the major cooperation platform for the GuangdongHong KongMacao Greater Bay Area to push for new and greater progress in promoting regional cooperation. Han made the remarks at a meeting of the Leading Group for Development of GuangdongHong KongMacao Greater Bay Area in Guangzhou, capital of Guangdong province, on Thursday. The meeting was attended by relevant senior officials including Carrie Lam Cheng Yuetngor, chief executive of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region, and Ho Iatseng, chief executive of the Macao Special Administrative Region.       He stressed that developing the GuangdongHong KongMacao Greater Bay Area is a major strategic step made by the central government, a major innovative move to implement the one country, two systems and to further deepen reform and expand openingup, and it helps support the two special administrative regions better integrating into overall national development. Han recognized the active efforts made by Guangdong province and the two SARs as well as the achievements they have made in recent years, and urged them to take a targetoriented approach, and identify and solve the problems in the process of advancing regional cooperation. Concrete efforts should be made to promote the development of the GuangdongMacao Intensive Cooperation Zone in Hengqin, a district of Zhuhai city in Guangdong province neighboring Macao, to help the SAR to develop a moderately diversified economy, he said. Han called for efforts on developing new industries in the advantageous fields and build a new integrated system of higherlevel openingup between Hengqin and Macao.       In terms of cooperation between Hong Kong and Shenzhen in Guangdong province, Han spoke of the development of the Qianhai ShenzhenHong Kong Modern Service Industry Cooperation Zone. He said relevant supportive policies should be leveraged to enhance intensive cooperation between Shenzhen and Hong Kong. Efforts should be made to advance institutional reform and innovation, advance the innovative development of a modern service industry, step up institutional reforms in developing science and technology and create a marketoriented, lawbased and international business environment, Han said. He also called for advancing highlevel openingup and intensifying service trade liberalization in the Greater Bay Area. Also on Thursday, Han met with Lam and Ho in Guangzhou. He fully recognized the recent work of the governments of the Hong Kong and Macao special administrative regions, and said they should continue to give priority to epidemic prevention and control as part of their efforts to recover the economy and improve peoples livelihoods.