Govt steps to encourage steady growth momentum
2020-05-25 07:26
Ning Jizhe, deputy head of the National Development and Reform Commission, interacts with reporters while wrapping up a news conference on May ,  in Beijing. Photo by Zou HongChina Daily    Chinas economy is gradually recovering with steady growth momentum despite disruptions from the COVID outbreak, while it will take further steps to maintain economic stability and promote sustainable growth, according to the countrys top economic regulator. Ning Jizhe, deputy head of the National Development and Reform Commission, said that while the novel coronavirus pandemic severely disrupted the Chinese economy, the countrys business is getting back to normal. It is doing so with the help of government measures in an orderly resumption of work and production as well as epidemic prevention and control, he added. In the next step, the government will make a big push to ensure six priorities and stability in six areas for steady economic momentum, with a key focus on creating jobs, using policy tools, expanding domestic demand, resuming work and production, deepening reforms and openingup, Ning said at a news conference on Sunday in Beijing. China has decided not to set a target for this years economic growth after full consideration of the uncertainties from the pandemics effects. Its not the first time that China has set no specific target for economic growth, Ning added, saying government work reports for ,  and  also did not mention the GDP growth target. In fact, the economic indicator tasks have been broken into related indicators for other economic and social development goals, and we will work hard to achieve those goals, he said. Yang Ruilong, an economics professor at Renmin University of China, said that amid the globally raging pandemic and its disruptions of foreign trade, setting a high growth target will result in an excessively strong economic stimulus plan, which might severely disrupt future economic development. But setting a relatively low growth target means China might lose some development opportunities, Yang said. Not setting a specific growth target is not equal to abandoning the pursuit of growth, he said during a recent China Macroeconomy Forum. We need to maintain sustainable growth to meet a series of specific targets in the annual Government Work Report. Yang expected China to see  percent GDP growth this year, saying the government needs to adopt more proactive fiscal policies and more flexible monetary policies as well as further deepening of reforms and openingup to release new impetus for growth. The NDRC said China will continue to open up its economy to more foreign investment, and a number of key, foreignfunded projects are expected to be launched this year in fields such as electronic information, new materials and advanced manufacturing. Particularly, China will resolve any issues that foreign companies may face in resuming work and production, and probusiness policies for domestic enterprises will apply equally to foreign firms. In the next step, the government will shorten the negative list of areas off limits to foreign investorsall other areas are presumed to be openand release a new version for , pursuing higherlevel openingup in services, manufacturing and agriculture. Dan Cotton, managing director for AsiaPacific of global businesstobusiness media company Ascential plc, said the company had accelerated its investment plans in China, as it sees strong growth momentum. Our businesses in China showed remarkable resilience to COVID, Cotton added. Of course, business was affected in Q and early Q. But the insight our companies provide to help customers has never been more relevantto understand how consumers will behave after COVID, what products they will buy, how to market to them and how to optimize sales on digital commerce platforms. Ascential has invested in launching and acquiring such services for customers in China and it has never been more important to do that more and faster.