Govt payments, not infra stimulus, may shape recovery
2020-05-18 10:15
People work at the construction site of the second phase project of Harbin Polarland in Harbin, Heilongjiang Province, on May , . PhotoXinhua    Despite the prevalent view that China will launch a strong infrastructure stimulus package, government payments to lowincome individuals and hardhit businesses may instead hold the key to the postepidemic economic recovery. China has preapproved a total of . trillion yuan  billion worth of local government special bonds mainly to fund infrastructure projects and create demand. The market expects that the total quota of the year, which is to be unveiled at the upcoming annual gathering of the nations top legislature, may reach . trillion yuan or more. Government spending in infrastructure investment is indeed of great efficacy in stimulating demand. Each  yuan spent in investment, accompanied by the additional loan funding from banks, could create demand worth more than that  yuan. Otherwise, if the amount is used for cash payments to lowincome people, the induced consumer spending should be less than  yuan as people tend to save some of the money received. But lets see how the COVID pandemic has hurt the economy before finding cures. COVID has dealt a blow to aggregate demand, while the shock was more overwhelming for services than for goods. Particularly, it is the lowerend, laborintensive services sector, which employs less educated and cheaper labor, that bore the brunt, such as offline retail, warehousing, tourism, catering and hospitality. Data from the National Bureau of Statistics showed that the price rise in home services, provided mostly by lowerend labor force such as plumbers and nannies, slowed down much more quickly than the topline consumer prices during the first quarter of the year. As changes in home services prices closely correlate with wages of lowerend labor, the numbers have pointed to a heavier risk of shrinking income of the group than others amid the COVID shock. Demand for lowerend labor has contracted more than the supply. Owing to the relatively high cash flow pressure on lowerend labor force, the blow to income could swiftly transform into a drastic decline in consumption and inflict a secondary damage on the economy. Transfer payments from the government to those lowincome people will help them maintain their living standards and prevent the contraction in aggregate demand. Indeed, payments to individuals may not be the most efficient way to stimulate demand, but it would reflect societys intent to care for the hardhit, ordinary people amid the crisis. This should also apply to the mosthit sectors and corporates. Although payments to these businesses may not shore up demand as strongly as infrastructure investment, society should be responsible for these groups that got hurt. From the economic perspective, those businesses, particularly small and mediumsized enterprises, hold a great amount of social capital, such as the networks of clients, management skills and brands. Therefore, transfer payments to the hardhit businesses will help retain the existing social capital, helping the economy to recover swiftly. Moreover, bailing out the virusstricken services businesses will also help stabilize employment. Over the past few years, the services sector has been the main source of new job opportunities as employment in the secondary sector shrank. The services sector employed more than  million as of the end of , or almost half of total employment.