Global integration of Chinas drug development accelerates, White Paper says
2020-12-11 13:20
Global pharmaceutical company GSK has entered a string of partnerships with Chinese medical institutions, nonprofit organizations and internet healthcare enterprises at the third China International Import Expo. Photo provided to chinadaily.com.cn    China will play a key role in accelerating and upgrading the integration of the global industrial chain for drug development as the COVID pandemic continues to evolve in many parts of the country, according to a white paper published by the special committee of public health and epidemic prevention, part of the enterprise alliance at the third China International Import Expo CIIE. Joint efforts by worldwide scientists to uncover the pathogenic mechanism of a disease and discover appropriate molecules for drug development have become irreversible trends in todays world with a shared future, the white paper stated. Meanwhile, Chinas performance in new drug research and development in recent years has been eyecatching, the paper added. Revealed by the world map of pharmaceutical RD institutions in , we could see that they have moved eastward and China has become the largest new drug RD base in Asia, the white paper stated. In terms of innovation, China has quickly risen in the global ranks to close the gap with Japan, the United Kingdom, and Germany, with its contribution rising to between  and  percent of the worlds total, according to the report. An obvious trend since  was that multinational pharmaceutical companies have collaborated with earlystage, smallsized RD enterprises, both local and foreign, to boost the RD efficiency. Such models have released much potential and achieved results in the development of antitumor immunesuppressive therapies, cell therapies, gene editing, and bispecific antibodies, the white paper stated. Such RD investment is a reflection of Chinas industrial chain in innovative medicines as well as global integration process in new drug development.The committee also made suggestions in the white paper that drugs and diagnostic techniques related to public health should be involved in the countrys priority approval and review channel. The committee added that China should be part of the global multicenter clinical trials for preventive vaccines and that the country should allow vaccines not yet registered in the country to be imported under emergency or other special circumstances.Members of the committee said that they will continue to respond to the Health China  Initiative and be committed to sustainable development of Chinas public health causes and the construction and optimization of the global public health system. We believe that, in the upcoming one to two decades, sustainable development in Chinas ecosystem of pharmaceutical innovation will attract more capital and highend RD talent to the market, supporting Chinas leading role in this realm worldwide, the report stated. The third China International Import Expo Enterprise Alliance consists of  exhibitors, all of which are Fortune  companies or industry leading enterprises. They have established seven special committees at the CIIE across different sectors  public health and epidemic prevention, dairy, industrial digital transformation, auto innovative development, smart supply chain, daily consumer products, and sports. Nine sessions of activities, such as policy exchange conferences, roundtable talks, and subforums were held by the special committees at the CIIE, during which relevant industrial reports were published and the CIIE will share here to better serve our professional exhibitors and visitors. The special committee of public health and epidemic prevention at CIIE is an initiative to discuss and showcase internationally advanced products, technologies and services in public health and epidemic prevention. It is also an effort to showcase the industrys latest developing trends and promote its continuous growth. Source China International Import Bureau