Global food, agricultural product companies to seek opportunities at CIIE
2020-10-23 17:19
Visitors try out Greek food during an expo in Shanghai last month, which is a warmup event for the upcoming rd CIIE. PhotoXinhua    SHANGHAI  Global food and agricultural product companies are looking to partake in the opportunities of the upcoming rd China International Import Expo CIIE, making the exhibition more appetizing with offerings like civet coffee, plantbased meat, and soy sauce ice cream. Consisting of three pavilions, the exhibition area for food and agricultural products will draw over , companies from nearly  countries and regions, including industryleading firms and some  Fortune  enterprises. Many exhibitors have showcased their CIIE exhibits in advance through offline promotional activities. French food giant Danone introduced  star products to China at the last CIIE and is bringing in the region of  products to this years expo, said Zhou Zhigang, vicepresident of Danone China, noting that the CIIE has greatly improved the efficiency of Danones product launches and opened up its sales channels. Having inked . billion yuan about . billion worth of deals at the last CIIE, New Zealandbased multinational dairy cooperative Fonterra will debut several new products at this years CIIE, including an Anchor probiotics product developed for Chinese consumers. Fonterras performance in China has grown against the trend amid the epidemic, said Han Li, vice president of Fonterra China. Nie Qin, a senior executive with the sales strategy department at Kirin China Investment Company Limited, said Kirins beer sales through catering channels have declined due to the epidemic, but online sales have more than doubled. The Japanese brewery will showcase more products at this years CIIE. Increased epidemic prevention and control measures concerning food safety will be taken during the event, such as the closedloop management of coldchain exhibits, and tasting exhibits will be required to fully cook their food, according to the expos exhibition department. The rd CIIE will be held from Nov  to  in Shanghai this year.