General Secretary Xi Jinping Chairs Meeting to Assess Epidemic Situation and Work out Priorities for Epidemic Control
2020-02-27 00:00
The Standing Committee of the Political Bureau of the CPC Central Committee met on  February to hear a briefing from the Central Leading Group on Responding to the Novel Coronavirus DiseaseCOVIDOutbreak, take stock of the epidemic situation, and work out plans for key aspects of epidemic control. General Secretary Xi Jinping of the CPC Central Committee chaired the meeting and made important remarks.In response to the call of the CPC Central Committee to all Party members, Comrades Xi Jinping, Li Keqiang, Li Zhanshu, Wang Yang, Wang Huning, Zhao Leji and Han Zheng made cash donations to support the fight against the COVID outbreak.Xi noted in his remarks the growing positive momentum of epidemic control across the country and the accelerated resumption of economic and social development. That said, the situation in Hubei Province in general and the city of Wuhan in particular remains complicated and grave, and risks of a resurgence in some regions must not be underestimated. At such a critical moment, it is all the more important to give the right guidance and help all sectors gain a full understanding of and act on the decisions and plans of the CPC Central Committee. While epidemic control remains a continuing priority, efforts must be stepped up to ensure economic and social development.Party committees and governments at all levels must coordinate epidemic response and socioeconomic development, fully grasp the evolving situations on both fronts, and focus on the main tasks and their key aspects. We must win this allout, peoples war against the epidemic and at the same time attain the goal of building a moderately prosperous society in all respects and eradicating poverty.The meeting emphasized the need to pool the efforts and resources from across the nation to strengthen epidemic response in Wuhan and in Hubei at large. Prevention and control in Beijing and other major provinces must be intensified to resolutely cut off all potential sources of infection. Efforts must be made to resume work and production in a calibrated and prudent way. Party committees and governments at all levels must take concrete measures to support the resumption of work and production, restore and stabilize the job market, and ensure unimpeded transportation and market supply.The meeting described Chinas efforts to promote international cooperation on epidemic response as a major embodiment of Chinas role as a responsible major country and Chinas pursuit of building a community with a shared future for mankind. It is important to continue to work closely with the World Health Organization, keep in close contact with relevant countries to share experience and coordinate measures on prevention and control, strengthen public diplomacy and communication of Chinas efforts, and work with other countries to uphold regional and global public health security.