Gates foundation to assist coronavirus fight in China
2020-01-27 10:24
Bill Gates speaks during an interview with Chinese media in Beijing, on Nov , . Photo provided to chinadaily.com.cn    The Bill  Melinda Gates Foundation Sunday announced that it is immediately committing  million in emergency funds and corresponding technical support to help frontline responders in China accelerate their efforts to contain the spread of nCoV. The foundation is already working with a range of Chinese public and private sector partners to accelerate national and international cooperation in areas of critical need, including efforts to identify and confirm cases, safely isolate and care for patients, and accelerate the development of treatments and vaccines. Partners include the National Health Commission and Chinese Center for Disease Control and Prevention, the National Natural Science Foundation of China and various research institutes affiliated with the Chinese Academy of Sciences, Xiamen University and Sinopharm China National Biotec Group. We are deeply concerned about the development of the current epidemic and express our high respect to those who are fighting on the front lines, said Yinuo Li, director of the Gates Foundation China. It has always been our focus to improve the level of infectious disease prevention and control, as well as to strengthen global health and safety. We look forward to working with our partners to meet the challenges. The foundation is also immediately committing  million to assist the Africa Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in scaling up public health measures against nCoV among African Union member states. These measures will include technical support to implement the screening and treatment of suspected cases, laboratory confirmation of nCoV diagnoses and the safe isolation and care of identified cases. Based in Seattle, Washington State, the foundation is led by CEO Sue DesmondHellmann and cochair William H. Gates Sr, under the direction of Bill and Melinda Gates and Warren Buffett.