Funds allocated for teacher training and flood relief
2020-07-14 09:49
A number of ministrylevel departments, including those responsible for finance, national development and reform, and emergency management, have responded recently to issues of public concern. Teachertraining program receives .b yuan The central government has allocated . billion yuan . million to provide training for primary school, middle school and kindergarten teachers in central and western regions, the Ministry of Finance said in a notice released on Thursday. The teachers will be encouraged to receive training through various channels, including outside training, online study and visiting scholarship programs at elite schools, it said. Areas of extreme poverty should be given priority when distributing the funds, the ministry said. China launched a national training program for teachers at primary and middle schools and kindergartens in . In the past decade,  billion yuan has been allocated for the program and more than  million teachers and school principals have received training, the ministry said. Guideline to boost private sectors transport role No restrictive thresholds shall be set to prevent private companies participation in the construction and operation of transport infrastructure, a guideline published on Wednesday said. The guideline, aimed at encouraging the private sector to fund transport infrastructure, was jointly issued by  departments, including the National Development and Reform Commission. It said barriers to market access should be made equal to ensure fair competition. For example, private enterprises should not be restricted from bidding for projects by local rules that require them to set up subsidiaries in places where the projects take place. Private enterprises will also be encouraged to participate in the construction of major railway projects, and the operation and development of railway passenger and freight stations, mobile internet services and express logistics, it said.