Full Text Resolution of the CPC Central Committee on the Major Achievements and Historical Experience of the Party over the Past Century
2021-11-16 20:39
Resolution of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of Chinaon the Major Achievements and Historical Experience of the Party over the Past CenturyAdopted at the Sixth Plenary Session of the th Central Committee of the Communist Party of China on November , PreambleSince its founding in , the Communist Party of China CPC has remained true to its original aspiration and mission of seeking happiness for the Chinese people and rejuvenation for the Chinese nation. Staying committed to communist ideals and socialist convictions, it has united and led Chinese people of all ethnic groups in working tirelessly to achieve national independence and liberation, and then to make our country prosperous and strong and pursue a better life. The past century has been a glorious journey.Over the past hundred years, the Party has led the people to a number of important milestones achieving great success in the newdemocratic revolution through bloody battles and unyielding struggles achieving great success in socialist revolution and construction through a spirit of selfreliance and a desire to build a stronger China achieving great success in reform, opening up, and socialist modernization by freeing minds and forging ahead and achieving great success for socialism with Chinese characteristics in the new era through a spirit of selfconfidence, selfreliance, and innovating on the basis of what has worked in the past. The endeavors of the Party and the people over the past century represent the most magnificent chapter in the millennialong history of the Chinese nation.A review of the Partys major achievements and historical experience over the past century is necessary for the following purposesstarting a new journey to build China into a modern socialist country in all respects in the historical context of the Partys centenaryupholding and developing socialism with Chinese characteristics in the new erastrengthening our consciousness of the need to maintain political integrity, think in bigpicture terms, follow the leadership core, and keep in alignment with the central Party leadershipenhancing our confidence in the path, theory, system, and culture of socialism with Chinese characteristicsresolutely upholding Comrade Xi Jinpings core position on the Party Central Committee and in the Party as a whole and upholding the Central Committees authority and its centralized, unified leadership to ensure that all Party members act in unisonadvancing the Partys selfreform, building all Party members fighting capacity, strengthening their ability to respond to risks and challenges, and maintaining the Partys vigor and vitality anduniting and leading all Chinese people in making continued efforts to realize the Chinese Dream of national rejuvenation.All Party members should uphold historical materialism and adopt a rational outlook on the Partys history. Looking back on the Partys endeavors over the past century, we can see why we were successful in the past and how we can continue to succeed in the future. This will ensure that we act with greater resolve and a stronger sense of purpose in staying true to our Partys founding mission, and that we more effectively uphold and develop socialism with Chinese characteristics in the new era.The Party adopted the Resolution on Certain Questions in the History of Our Party at the seventh plenary session of its Sixth Central Committee in  and the Resolution on Certain Questions in the History of Our Party since the Founding of the Peoples Republic of China at the sixth plenary session of its th Central Committee in .These two resolutions embody a factsbased review of major events in the Partys history, as well as important experience gained and lessons learned. These documents unified the whole Party in thinking and action at key historical junctures and played a vital guiding role in advancing the cause of the Party and the people. Their basic points and conclusions remain valid to this day.I. A Great Victory in the NewDemocratic RevolutionIn the period of the newdemocratic revolution, the main tasks of the Party were to oppose imperialism, feudalism, and bureaucratcapitalism, seek national independence and the peoples liberation, and create the fundamental social conditions necessary for realizing national rejuvenation.With a history stretching back more than , years, the Chinese nation is a great and ancient nation that has fostered a splendid civilization and made indelible contributions to the progress of human civilization. After the Opium War of , however, China was gradually reduced to a semicolonial, semifeudal society due to the aggression of Western powers and the corruption of feudal rulers. The country endured intense humiliation, the people were subjected to untold misery, and the Chinese civilization was plunged into darkness. The Chinese nation suffered greater ravages than ever before.To save the nation from peril, the Chinese people rose to fight back, and patriots of high ideals sought to pull the nation together, putting up a heroic and moving struggle. The Taiping Heavenly Kingdom Movement, the Westernization Movement, the Reform Movement of , and the Yihetuan Movement rose one after the other, and a variety of plans were devised to ensure national survival, but all of these ended in failure. The Revolution of  led by Dr. Sun Yatsen brought down the absolute monarchy that had reigned over China for thousands of years, but it failed to change the semicolonial and semifeudal nature of Chinese society and to alter the bitter fate of the Chinese people. China was in urgent need of new ideas to lead the movement to save the nation and a new organization to rally forces of revolution.With the salvoes of Russias October Revolution in , MarxismLeninism was brought to China. The May th Movement of  spurred the spread of Marxism throughout the country. Then in July , as the Chinese people and the Chinese nation were undergoing a great awakening and MarxismLeninism was becoming closely integrated with the Chinese workers movement, the Communist Party of China was born. The founding of a communist party in China was an epochmaking event, and from then on the Chinese revolution took on an entirely new look.The Party was keenly aware that the conflicts between imperialism and the Chinese nation, and those between feudalism and the people constituted the principal contradiction in modern Chinese society. To realize national rejuvenation, it would be essential to initiate an antiimperialist and antifeudal struggle.In the early days of the Party and during the Great Revolution, the Party formulated the program of the democratic revolution, launched movements of workers, youths, peasants, and women, promoted and supported the reorganization of the Chinese Kuomintang KMT and the founding of the National Revolutionary Army, and led the great antiimperialist and antifeudal struggle across the country, bringing about a surge in the Great Revolution.In , the reactionary clique within the KMT betrayed the revolution, brutally massacring communists and other revolutionaries. Meanwhile, the Right deviationist ideas within the Party represented by Chen Duxiu grew into Right opportunist errors and came to dominate the Partys leadership. The Party and the people were unable to mount an effective resistance, resulting in a disastrous defeat for the Great Revolution under the surprise attack of a powerful enemy.During the Agrarian Revolutionary War, the Party realized in light of harsh realities that without revolutionary armed forces, it would be impossible to defeat armed counterrevolutionaries, win the Chinese revolution, and thus change the fate of the Chinese people and the Chinese nation. The Party would need to fight armed counterrevolution with armed revolution.The Nanchang Uprising of  fired the opening shot of armed resistance against KMT reactionaries. This marked the start of the Communist Party of Chinas journey to lead the revolutionary struggle independently, build the peoples armed forces, and seize state power by force. Soon afterwards, the policy of carrying out agrarian revolution and organizing armed uprisings was established at the August th Meeting. The Party led the Autumn Harvest Uprising, the Guangzhou Uprising, and uprisings in many other areas. Due to the great disparity in strength between the enemy forces and our own, most of these uprisings ended in failure. The fact of the matter was that in view of objective conditions at the time, the Chinese communists could not follow the example of Russias October Revolution and win nationwide revolutionary victory by taking key cities first. The Party urgently needed to find a revolutionary path compatible with Chinas actual conditions.The shift from attacking big cities to advancing into rural areas was a new starting point of decisive importance in the Chinese revolution. Led by Comrade Mao Zedong, soldiers and civilians established the first rural revolutionary base in the Jinggang Mountains, where the Party led the people in overthrowing local despots and redistributing the land. The Gutian Meeting of  established the principles of strengthening the Party ideologically and the military politically. As progress was made in the struggle, the Party established the Central Revolutionary Base as well as the Western HunanHubei, HaifengLufeng, HubeiHenanAnhui, Qiongya, FujianZhejiangJiangxi, HunanHubeiJiangxi, HunanJiangxi, ZuojiangYoujiang, SichuanShaanxi, ShaanxiGansu, and HunanHubeiSichuanGuizhou bases. In addition, the Party also set up Party organizations and other revolutionary organizations in KMTcontrolled areas and launched revolutionary mass struggles.However, the fifth counterencirclement and suppression campaign in the Central Revolutionary Base ended in failure as a result of the misguided leadership of Wang Mings Left dogmatism within the Party. The Red Army was forced to make a strategic shift, and arrived in northern Shaanxi Province after enduring the extraordinarily bitter and arduous journey of the Long March. The errors of the Left line caused enormous losses to revolutionary bases as well as revolutionary forces in KMTcontrolled areas.In January , the Political Bureau of the Central Committee convened a meeting in Zunyi on the Long March, at which Comrade Mao Zedong was confirmed as the de facto leader of the Central Committee and the Red Army. The meeting laid the groundwork for establishing the leading position within the Central Committee of the correct Marxist line chiefly represented by Comrade Mao Zedong, as well as for the formation of the first generation of the central collective leadership with Comrade Mao Zedong at its core. The meeting opened a new stage in which the Party would act on its own initiative to address practical problems concerning the Chinese revolution, and saved the Party, the Red Army, and the Chinese revolution at a moment of greatest peril. It also subsequently enabled the Party to defeat Zhang Guotaos separatism, bring the Long March to a triumphant conclusion, and open up new horizons for the Chinese revolution. The Zunyi Meeting is therefore considered a pivotal turning point in the Partys history.After the September th Incident in  during the War of Resistance against Japanese Aggression, the conflict between China and Japan gradually overtook domestic class conflict as the issue of primary importance. As Japanese imperialists intensified their aggression against China, the country was plunged into an unprecedented national crisis. The Party was the first to propose that China should fight Japanese aggression with armed resistance, and launched extensive resistance movements. It also facilitated a peaceful settlement of the Xian Incident, thus playing a historic role in promoting a second period of cooperation between the KMT and the CPC and the united resistance against Japanese aggression.Following the July th Incident in , the Party implemented the right policy on the Chinese united front against Japanese aggression, and adhered to the line of allout resistance. It devised and executed the strategic guidelines for a protracted war as well as a whole set of strategies and tactics for a peoples war, opened up vast battlefronts behind enemy lines, and developed bases for the resistance. The Party led the Eighth Route Army, the New Fourth Army, the Northeast United Resistance Army, and other forces of the peoples armed resistance in brave fighting, and they were the pillar of the entire nations resistance until the Chinese people finally prevailed. This marked the first time in modern history that the Chinese people had won a complete victory against foreign aggressors in the war of national liberation, and was an important part of the global war against fascism.During the War of Liberation, as the KMT reactionaries flagrantly launched an allout civil war, the Party led soldiers and civilians in gradually shifting from active defense to strategic offensive. It secured victories in the LiaoxiShenyang, HuaiHai, and BeipingTianjin campaigns as well as the CrossingtheYangtze Campaign, advanced triumphantly into the centralsouth, northwest, and southwest, and wiped out eight million KMT troops, thus overthrowing the reactionary KMT government and the three mountains of imperialism, feudalism, and bureaucratcapitalism. With the support of the people, the Partyled peoples army demonstrated heroic mettle and unyielding resolve as they fought to the last against these fierce enemies, making a historic contribution to the victory of the newdemocratic revolution.In the course of the revolutionary struggle, Chinese communists, with Comrade Mao Zedong as their chief representative, adapted the basic tenets of MarxismLeninism to Chinas specific realities and developed a theoretical synthesis of Chinas unique experience which came from painstaking trials and great sacrifices. They blazed the right revolutionary path of encircling cities from the countryside and seizing state power with military force. They established Mao Zedong Thought, which charted the correct course for securing victory in the newdemocratic revolution.In the course of the revolutionary struggle, the Party carried forward its great founding spirit comprised of the following principles upholding truth and ideals, staying true to its original aspiration and founding mission, fighting bravely without fear of sacrifice, and remaining loyal to the Party and faithful to the people. The Party initiated and advanced the great project of Party building, introduced the principle of focusing on strengthening the Party in ideological terms, and upheld democratic centralism. It stuck to the three fine styles of conduct, namely combining theory with practice, maintaining close ties with the people, and conducting criticism and selfcriticism it developed the three important tools of the united front, armed struggle, and Party building, as it strived to build a national Marxist party of the people, which was fully consolidated in ideological, political, and organizational terms. The rectification movementa Partywide Marxist ideological education movementwas launched in  and yielded tremendous results. The Party formulated the Resolution on Certain Questions in the History of Our Party, which helped the entire Party reach a common understanding of the basic questions regarding the Chinese revolution. At the Seventh National Congress, the correct line, principles, and policies were formulated for building a newdemocratic China, and as a result the Party became united as never before in ideological, political, and organizational terms.On October , , the founding of the Peoples Republic of China was proclaimed after  years of bitter and courageous struggle carried out by the people under the leadership of the Party and with the active support of other political parties and democrats without party affiliation, thus realizing the independence of the Chinese nation and the liberation of the Chinese people. This put an end to Chinas history as a semicolonial, semifeudal society, to the rule of a handful of exploiters over the working people, to the state of total disunity that plagued the old China, and to all the unequal treaties imposed on our country by foreign powers and all the privileges that imperialist powers enjoyed on our land, marking the countrys great transformation from a millenniaold feudal autocracy to a peoples democracy. This also reshaped the world political landscape and offered enormous inspiration for oppressed nations and peoples struggling for liberation around the world.It has been proven through practice that history and the people have chosen the Communist Party of China, and that without its leadership, it would not have been possible to realize national independence and the peoples liberation. Through tenacious struggle, the Party and the people showed the world that the Chinese people had stood up and the time in which the Chinese nation could be bullied and abused was gone and would never return. This marked the beginning of a new epoch in Chinas development.II. Socialist Revolution and ConstructionIn the period of socialist revolution and construction, the main tasks of the Party were to realize the transformation from new democracy to socialism, carry out socialist revolution, promote socialist construction, and lay down the fundamental political conditions and the institutional foundations necessary for national rejuvenation.After the founding of the Peoples Republic, the Party led the people in surmounting a multitude of political, economic, and military challenges. It cleared out bandits and remnant KMT reactionary forces, peacefully liberated Tibet, and unified the entire mainland. It stabilized prices, unified standards for finances and the economy, completed the agrarian reform, and launched democratic reforms in all sectors of society. It introduced the policy of equal rights for men and women, suppressed counterrevolutionaries, and launched movements against the three evils of corruption, waste, and bureaucracy and against the five evils of bribery, tax evasion, theft of state property, cheating on government contracts, and stealing of economic information. As the stains of the old society were wiped out, China took on a completely new look.Meanwhile, the Chinese Peoples Volunteers marched valiantly across the Yalu River to fight alongside the Korean people and troops. They ultimately defeated a powerful enemy that was armed to the teeth, demonstrating the gallantry of our army and our country, and the unyielding spirit of our people. Chinas resounding victory in the War to Resist US Aggression and Aid Korea safeguarded the security of the nascent Peoples Republic, and testified to its status as a major country. The new China thus gained a firm foothold amid complex domestic and international environments.Under the Partys leadership, a government of peoples democratic dictatorship was established and consolidated, which was led by the working class and based on an alliance of workers and peasants. This created the conditions necessary for the countrys rapid development.In , the Common Program of the Chinese Peoples Political Consultative Conference CPPCC was passed at the CPPCCs first plenary session. In , the Party officially set forth the general line for the transition period, namely gradually realizing the countrys socialist industrialization and socialist transformation of agriculture, handicrafts, and capitalist industry and commerce over a fairly long period of time. In , the Constitution of the Peoples Republic of China was adopted at the first session of the First National Peoples Congress. In , China basically completed the socialist transformation of private ownership of the means of production, and put into practice public ownership of the means of production and distribution according to work, thus marking the establishment of the socialist economic system.Under the Partys leadership, China established the system of peoples congresses, the system of CPCled multiparty cooperation and political consultation, and the system of regional ethnic autonomy, providing institutional guarantees for ensuring that it is the people who run the country. Under the Partys leadership, China also forged and strengthened unity among people of all ethnic groups, established and developed socialist ethnic relations based on equality and mutual assistance, and achieved and cemented unity between workers, peasants, intellectuals, and people from other social strata across the country. As a result, a broad united front was consolidated and expanded. The establishment of the socialist system laid the foundation for all of Chinas subsequent progress and development.In light of the domestic situation following socialist transformation, the Party propounded at its Eighth National Congress that the main contradiction in China was no longer the contradiction between the working class and the bourgeoisie, but rather that between the demand of the people for rapid economic and cultural development and the reality that the countrys economy and culture fell short of the needs of the people. Therefore, the major task facing the nation was to concentrate on developing the productive forces and realize industrialization in order to gradually meet the peoples growing material and cultural needs. The Party called on the people to redouble their efforts to build China step by step into a strong socialist country with modern agriculture, industry, national defense, and science and technology, and it led them in carrying out largescale socialist construction across the board.Through the execution of several fiveyear plans, an independent and relatively complete industrial system and national economic framework were established, the conditions of agricultural production were markedly improved, and impressive progress was made in social programs such as education, science, culture, health, and sports. With continuous breakthroughs in cuttingedge technologies, including nuclear weapons, missiles, and satellites, Chinas defense industries underwent steady growth after starting from scratch. The Peoples Liberation Army continued to grow in strength, expanding from ground forces alone into a composite military force comprised of the navy, air force, and other specialized units. This provided firm support for the Peoples Republic to consolidate the newborn peoples government, establish Chinas position as a major country, and defend the nations dignity.The Party adhered to an independent foreign policy of peace, championed and upheld the Five Principles of Peaceful Coexistence, and firmly defended Chinas independence, sovereignty, and dignity. It provided support and assistance for other oppressed nations in seeking liberation, for newly independent countries in their pursuit of development, and for various peoples as they put up just struggles, and stood opposed to imperialism, hegemonism, colonialism, and racism. The humiliating diplomacy of the old China was put to an end.The Party adjusted its diplomatic strategies in light of evolving circumstances, worked to restore all lawful rights of the Peoples Republic of China in the United Nations, opened up new horizons for Chinas diplomacy, and fostered commitment to the oneChina principle among the international community. The Party put forward the theory of the differentiation of the three worlds and made the promise that China would never seek hegemony, earning respect and acclaim from the international community and developing countries in particular.The Party fully foresaw the new challenges it would face after assuming power over the whole country. As early as at the second plenary session of its Seventh Central Committee which was held shortly before nationwide victory was attained in the War of Liberation, the Party called on all members to remain modest, prudent, and free from arrogance and rashness in their work, and to preserve the style of plain living and hard struggle. After the founding of the Peoples Republic, the Party focused on the major issue of Party building in the context of governing, and worked to strengthen the Party and consolidate Party leadership ideologically, organizationally, and in terms of conduct. The Party bolstered efforts to encourage officials to study theory and increase their knowledge, improved its capacity for exercising leadership, and demanded that all members, especially highranking officials, act with a greater sense of purpose to safeguard Party unity and solidarity. Rectification campaigns were carried out throughout the Party to strengthen education within the Party, consolidate primarylevel organizations, raise membership requirements, and oppose bureaucratism, commandism, graft, and waste. The Party was on high alert against corruption, worked hard to prevent degeneracy among officials, and responded to corruption with firm punishment. These important measures strengthened the integrity of the Party and the solidarity of all Party members, built closer ties between the Party and the people, and accumulated essential starting experience for building a governing party.During this period, Comrade Mao Zedong proposed a second round of efforts to integrate the basic tenets of MarxismLeninism with Chinas realities. Chinese communists, with Comrade Mao Zedong as their chief representative, enriched and developed Mao Zedong Thought by taking stock of new realities, and put forward a series of important theories for socialist construction. These included recognizing that socialist society was a long historical period strictly differentiating between two types of contradictions, namely those between the people and the enemy and those among the people, and properly dealing with these contradictions handling the ten major relationships in Chinas socialist construction appropriately finding a path to industrialization suited to Chinas realities respecting the law of value implementing the principle of longterm coexistence and mutual oversight between the Communist Party and other political parties and applying the principle of letting a hundred flowers blossom and a hundred schools of thought contend to scientific and cultural work. These creative theoretical achievements maintain important guiding significance to this day.Mao Zedong Thought represents a creative application and advancement of MarxismLeninism in China. It is a summation of theories, principles, and experience on Chinas revolution and construction that has been proven correct through practice, and its establishment marked the first historic step in adapting Marxism to the Chinese context. The living soul of Mao Zedong Thought is the positions, viewpoints, and methods embodied in its constituent parts, which are reflected in three basic pointsseeking truth from facts, following the mass line, and staying independent. These have provided sound guidance for developing the cause of the Party and the people.Regrettably, the correct line adopted at the Partys Eighth National Congress was not fully upheld. Mistakes were made such as the Great Leap Forward and the peoples commune movement, and the scope of the struggle against Rightists was also made far too broad. Confronted with a grave and complex external environment at the time, the Party was extremely concerned about consolidating Chinas socialist state power, and made a wide range of efforts in this regard. However, Comrade Mao Zedongs theoretical and practical errors concerning class struggle in a socialist society became increasingly serious, and the Central Committee failed to rectify these mistakes in good time. Under a completely erroneous appraisal of the prevailing class relations and the political situation in the Party and the country, Comrade Mao Zedong launched and led the Cultural Revolution. The counterrevolutionary cliques of Lin Biao and Jiang Qing took advantage of Comrade Mao Zedongs mistakes, and committed many crimes that brought disaster to the country and the people, resulting in ten years of domestic turmoil which caused the Party, the country, and the people to suffer the most serious losses and setbacks since the founding of the Peoples Republic. This was an extremely bitter lesson. Acting on the will of the Party and the people, the Political Bureau of the Central Committee resolutely smashed the Gang of Four in October , putting an end to the catastrophic Cultural Revolution.From the founding of the Peoples Republic to the eve of reform and opening up, the Party led the people in completing the socialist revolution, eliminating all systems of exploitation, and bringing about the most extensive and profound social change in the history of the Chinese nation and a great transformation from a poor and backward Eastern country with a large population to a socialist country. Despite the serious setbacks it encountered in the process of exploration, the Party made creative theoretical achievements and great progress in socialist revolution and construction, which provided valuable experience, theoretical preparation, and material foundations for launching socialism with Chinese characteristics into a new historical period.Through tenacious struggle, the Party and the people showed the world that the Chinese people were not only capable of dismantling the old world, but also of building a new one, that only socialism could save China, and that only socialism could develop China.III. Reform, Opening Up, and Socialist ModernizationIn the new period of reform, opening up, and socialist modernization, the main tasks facing the Party were to continue exploring a right path for building socialism in China, unleash and develop the productive forces, lift the people out of poverty and help them become prosperous in the shortest time possible, and fuel the push toward national rejuvenation by providing new, dynamic institutional guarantees as well as the material conditions for rapid development.After the end of the Cultural Revolution, the Party stood at a crucial historical juncture in which it was confronted with the question of which course the Party and the country should take. The Party came to recognize that the only way forward was to launch a program of reform and opening up otherwise, our endeavors in pursuing modernization and building socialism would be doomed to failure. In December , the th Central Committee held its third plenary session. At the session the Party decisively abandoned the policy of taking class struggle as the key link, and initiated a strategic shift in the focus of the Party and countrys work, thereby ushering in a new period of reform, opening up, and socialist modernization. This marked a great turning point of farreaching significance in the Partys history since the founding of the Peoples Republic of China. The Party also made the momentous decision to completely renounce the Cultural Revolution. Over the more than  years that have passed since then, the Party has never wavered in following the line, principles, and policies adopted at this session.After the third plenary session of the th Central Committee, Chinese communists, with Comrade Deng Xiaoping as their chief representative, united and led the whole Party and the entire nation in conducting a thorough review of the experience gained and lessons learned since the founding of the Peoples Republic. On this basis, and by focusing on the fundamental questions of what socialism is and how to build it and drawing lessons from the history of world socialism, they established Deng Xiaoping Theory, and devoted their efforts to freeing minds and seeking truth from facts. The historic decision was made to shift the focus of the Party and the countrys work onto economic development and to launch the reform and opening up drive. Chinese communists brought the essence of socialism to light, set the basic line for the primary stage of socialism, and made it clear that China would follow its own path and build socialism with Chinese characteristics. They provided sensible answers to a series of basic questions on building socialism with Chines