Full Text Employment and Labor Rights in Xinjiang
2020-09-17 13:01
The State Council Information Office ofthe Peoples Republic of ChinaSeptember ContentsPrefaceI.Employment in XinjiangII.Proactive Employment PoliciesIII.Full Respect for Workers Job PreferencesIV.Labor Rights ProtectionV.Better Jobs for Better LivesVI.Application of International Labor and Human Rights StandardsConclusionPrefaceWork creates the means of existence and is an essential human activity. It creates a better life and enables allround human development and the progress of civilization. The Constitution of the Peoples Republic of China provides that all citizens have the right and obligation to work. To protect the right to work is to safeguard human dignity and human rights.China has a large population and workforce. Employment and job security are key to guaranteeing workers basic rights and wellbeing, and have a significant impact on economic development, social harmony, national prosperity, and the nations rejuvenation. China is committed to the peoplecentered philosophy of development, attaches great importance to job security, gives high priority to employment, and pursues a proactive set of policies on employment. It fully respects the wishes of workers, protects citizens right to work in accordance with the law, applies international labor and human rights standards, and strives to enable everyone to create a happy life and achieve their own development through hard work.In accordance with the countrys major policies on employment and the overall plan for eliminating poverty, the Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region takes the facilitation of employment as the most fundamental project for ensuring and improving peoples wellbeing. It has made every effort to increase and stabilize employment through various channels encouraging individual initiative, regulatory role of the market, and government policies facilitating employment, entrepreneurship, and business startups. Through its proactive labor and employment policies, Xinjiang has continuously improved the peoples material and cultural lives, and guaranteed and developed their human rights in every field. This has laid a solid foundation for ensuring that the people of all ethnic groups in Xinjiang have the opportunity to enjoy moderate prosperity in all respects and achieve longterm social stability together with their fellow countrymen and countrywomen in other parts of China.I. Employment in XinjiangXinjiang is located in the northwest of China. For historical and a range of natural reasons, it has long lagged behind other parts of the country in development, and there is a large impoverished population. The four prefectures in southern Xinjiang, namely, Hotan, Kashgar, Aksu and Kizilsu Kirgiz, in particular have a poor ecoenvironment, weak economic foundations, and a serious shortfall in employment carrying capacity. They are identified as areas of extreme poverty. In addition, terrorists, separatists and religious extremists have long preached that the afterlife is fated and that religious teachings are superior to state laws, inciting the public to resist learning the standard spoken and written Chinese language, reject modern science, and refuse to improve their vocational skills, economic conditions, and the ability to better their own lives. As a result, some local people have outdated ideas they suffer from poor education and employability, low employment rates and incomes, and have fallen into longterm poverty.Employment and job security carries great significance for ensuring peoples right to work, improving their living standards, and promoting social harmony and stability. Especially since the th National Congress of the Communist Party of China CPC in , Xinjiang has vigorously implemented employment projects, enhanced vocational training, and expanded employment channels and capacity. Thanks to these efforts, the employment situation in Xinjiang has continued to improve, peoples incomes and quality of life are rising, and their sense of gain, happiness and security has significantly increased.Policies have further improved. In recent years, to implement the national policies and strategies for stabilizing and facilitating employment and respond to calls from the public and local conditions, Xinjiang has successively formulated the Opinions of the CPC Committee and the Peoples Government of the Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region on Further Facilitating Employment and Business Startups, the Opinions of the Peoples Government of the Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region on Facilitating Employment and Business Startups Now and in the Future, and the th FiveYear Plan of the Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region for Facilitating Employment. Systematic arrangements have been made in the areas of economic development, governmental financial guarantees, tax incentives, support from the financial sector, and overall planning of urban and rural areas, different regions, and diverse groups, as well as in supporting flexible employment and helping groups in need to find jobs. All these provide a solid institutional guarantee for facilitating employment and safeguarding the rights and interests of workers.The scale of employment has expanded continuously. Xinjiang focuses on areas of extreme poverty and key groups with difficulty finding work. It guides people of all ethnic groups to find work nearby, or to locate jobs or start their own businesses in cities, and encourages the impoverished workforce to seek employment outside their hometowns. From  to , the total number of people employed in Xinjiang rose from . million to . million, an increase of . percent. The average annual increase in urban employment was more than , people , in southern Xinjiang, accounting for . percent and the average annual relocation of surplus rural labor was more than . million people, of whom nearly . million, or over  percent, were in southern Xinjiang.The employment structure has become more rational. Xinjiang considers supplyside structural reform as a key priority, and endeavors to raise the level of the primary industry, focus on key projects in the secondary industry, and boost the tertiary industry. It nurtures and strengthens industries with distinctive strengths and laborintensive industries, and guides the orderly flow of labor to the tertiary industry. In terms of workforce distribution across the three industries, the ratio in  was .  .  ., which evolved to .  .  . in . The tertiary industry saw an increase of . percentage points, making it the most jobintensive sector. In terms of workforce distribution in urban and rural areas, surplus rural labor is increasingly moving to cities and towns, and the ability of these places to absorb workforce has been strengthened. The number of people employed in cities and towns increased from . million in  to . million in , accounting for . percent of the total.The quality of the workforce has improved significantly. Thanks to the governments education projects, enrollments in preschool education, nineyear compulsory education, senior high school education, higher education and vocational education in Xinjiang have all reached the highest level in history. In , there were , fulltime students studying at universities and colleges an increase of , over , and . million students studying at secondary schools an increase of , over . Through vocational training, Xinjiang has built a large knowledgebased, skilled and innovative workforce that meets the requirements of the new era. Every year from  to  Xinjiang provided training sessions to an average of . million urban and rural workers, of which , were in southern Xinjiang. The trainees mastered at least one skill with employment potential, and the vast majority of them obtained vocational qualifications, skill level certificates, or specialized skill certificates, allowing them to go on to find stable employment.The income of residents and workers has increased steadily. From  to , the per capita disposable income of residents in Xinjiang increased as follows urban residents from RMB, to RMB, an average annual nominal growth of . percent rural residents from RMB, to RMB, an average annual nominal growth of . percent urban residents in areas under the administration of Xinjiang Production and Construction Corps a special entity entrusted by the state to cultivate and guard Chinas border area in Xinjiang from RMB, to RMB, an average annual nominal growth of . percent residents of the company residence areas of the Corps from RMB, to RMB, an average annual nominal growth of . percent average annual salary of employees in nonprivate sectors in cities and towns from RMB, to RMB, an annual growth of . percent average annual salary of employees in private sectors in cities and towns from RMB, to RMB, an annual growth of . percent.From  to , , people from registered poor households in southern Xinjiang and in four impoverished regimental farms of the Xinjiang Production and Construction Corps found employment outside their hometowns and subsequently emerged from poverty.The above statistics show that, in recent years Xinjiang has achieved remarkable results in providing employment services and job security to the residents, and the overall situation is good. However, it should be noted that Xinjiang is still faced with difficulties and challenges including a weak foundation for economic development, a large labor surplus in rural areas, and a low level of vocational skills. To solve its problem of employment in the long term, Xinjiang must further optimize the industrial structure, improve the quality of the workforce, and change peoples outdated mindset.II. Implementation of Proactive Policies on EmploymentIn recent years, Xinjiang has formulated and put in place economic and social development strategies conducive to expanding employment, and has improved various policies to facilitate employment, with the goal of helping local people achieve stable, continuous, and longterm employment.Upgrading the industrial structure to increase employment. Xinjiang has seized the development opportunities brought by the Belt and Road Initiative to diversify its industrial structure, promoting capital, technology and knowledgeintensive advanced manufacturing industries and emerging industries, boosting laborintensive industries such as textiles and garments, shoes and accessories, and consumer electronics, and encouraging modern service industries such as ecommerce, cultural and creative businesses, allareaadvancing tourism, health care, and elderly care, all with a view to expanding the capacity and scale of employment.In , Xinjiang Zhundong Economic and Technological Development Zone was established, utilizing competitive resources to develop six pillar industries, including new materials and new energy. By the end of , the development zone was providing employment for more than , people. Since , the state has given strong support to Xinjiangs textiles industry, which created , new jobs from  to .Prioritizing the development of agroproduct processing and electronics assembly, Kashgar Prefecture has attracted related enterprises to its industrial development zones IDZs and helped them expand their production to rural areas. By the end of , the prefecture had  agroproduct processing enterprises providing , jobs, and , industrial enterprises located in the various IDZs providing , jobs.Aksu Prefecture has been integrating industry and vocational education, offering joint education programs by textile and garment enterprises and vocational schools, and has facilitated employment for , people.Assisting key groups to obtain stable employment. Xinjiang has adopted a policy to encourage surplus rural labor to work in or near their hometowns, developing satellite factories and poverty alleviation workshops in light of local conditions to create jobs, supporting rural organizations for labor service cooperation to facilitate employment, promoting IDZs to stabilize employment, and developing tourism to boost employment.Xinjiang has launched a threeyear program to intensify its poverty alleviation efforts in  extremely poor counties in its south and  extremely poor regimental farms under the Xinjiang Production and Construction Corps. From  to June , the local government helped , people from registered poor households in southern Xinjiang to find work outside their hometowns. In Kashgar and Hotan prefectures, a threeyear relocation assistance program from  to  for both urban and rural surplus labor helped , people to find jobs outside their hometowns.Xinjiang has provided dynamic, categorized and targeted assistance to people having difficulty finding work and to zeroemployment households in the entire autonomous region  having each and every one of them identified, registered, assisted, and ensured stable employment. From  to , Xinjiang provided jobs for , urban residents having difficulty finding work, and ensured that zeroemployment households found jobs within  hours once they were identified.For university graduates, Xinjiang has implemented a number of plans to facilitate employment and the creation of new businesses, to guide them to work and grow at primarylevel organizations, to encourage them to take up primarylevel posts in education, agriculture, health care, and poverty alleviation in rural areas, and to help longterm unemployed youth find jobs. In , the employment rate of university graduates in Xinjiang reached . percent, and the employment rate of ethnic minorities who graduated from universities in other parts of China and returned to Xinjiang reached . percent, both figures representing record highs.Encouraging innovation and entrepreneurship to generate employment. Xinjiang promotes innovation as a new engine for creating jobs, and advances reform to streamline administration, delegate power, improve regulation and upgrade services. To encourage people who are eager and eligible to start their own businesses, the local government eases market access, improves policies in support of business startups, and sees to it that guaranteed loans, interest subsidies, allowances and tax breaks for startups are implemented. Xinjiang fosters platforms for innovation and entrepreneurship, improves capacity building for startups, and develops makerspaces which are marketoriented, professional, integrated and networked, to provide young entrepreneurs with more platforms and equal access to services.Currently, Xinjiang has  business incubation demonstration bases at national level and  at provincial and equivalent level, which have fostered , micro and small businesses and created more than , jobs. Xinjiang supports innovationdriven startups and entrepreneurs as capable job creators, and encourages Internet plus entrepreneurship to multiply employment opportunities.In , Hotan Prefecture alone issued RMB million guaranteed loans for business startups, which helped , people to start businesses, including university graduates, rural workers and people having difficulty finding work. Xiao Min and five other women from Changji City, Changji Hui Autonomous Prefecture founded a human resources service company. It has become a leader of the local labor supply chain, integrating human resource services, dispatch of labor, logistics outsourcing, policy consultancy, and IT application. It has more than , employees from various ethnic groups and serves  enterprises and public institutions across the whole of Xinjiang. It has provided jobs for more than , unemployed and surplus rural laborers, and has created a total value of RMB million.Providing vocational training to facilitate employment. Based on the market demand for labor, Xinjiang focuses on improving employability of workers and promoting stable employment. It has developed a complete system of vocational education and training, including colleges for higher vocational and technical education, secondary technical schools, technical institutes, job placement training centers, employee training centers, and vocational education and training centers, with the goal of raising the basic quality of trainees and organizing training oriented to specific demands, jobs and employers. In , Hotan Prefecture alone provided vocational training for , farmers and herders, of whom , found work, with an employment rate of over  percent.Leveraging institutional strengths to expand employment channels. China has institutional strengths that promote equality and mutual assistance among all ethnic groups towards common development and progress. It has also formed a mechanism in which betterdeveloped provinces pair up with and provide assistance for various parts of Xinjiang. Fully leveraging these strengths and this mechanism, Xinjiang coordinates jobs in and outside the autonomous region, to create favorable conditions for its local residents to work in other parts of China.Since , , people in Xinjiang have achieved employment with higher income in other parts of the country. Following the principle of providing training according to market demand and before dispatching workers, Xinjiang has organized employmentoriented training on standard spoken and written Chinese, relevant legal knowledge, general knowhow of urban life, and labor skills. Recipients of relocation assistance are provided by their employers with daily necessities and proper accommodation. In some provinces, enterprises provide them with public rental housing, lowrent housing, or housing for couples. Xinjiang provides timely registration and certification services for those who find employment through relocation assistance, to facilitate their medical care in their host provinces. Employers and host provinces help guarantee their childrens access to kindergartens and schools, and help them integrate into local life and share local resources.Securing employment and public wellbeing in the face of Covid. In response to the impact of Covid, Xinjiang has coordinated epidemic prevention and control with social and economic development. It has worked hard to stabilize employment, finance, foreign trade, inbound investment, domestic investment, and market expectations, and has put in place measures to guarantee jobs, daily living needs, food and energy, industrial and supply chains, the interests of market players, and the smooth functioning of grassroots government. The local government has taken multiple measures to alleviate economic difficulties and stabilize and boost employment, and adopted policies offering periodical and targeted cuts in taxes and other employer contributions, aiming to facilitate the resumption of production and business activities, and increase employment generated by investment and industries.Through all these measures, Xinjiang has achieved significant progress in increasing employment and ensuring public wellbeing while implementing Covid control on an ongoing basis. This can be exemplified by the following statistics as of the end of June  cuts of some RMB. billion to oldage insurance, unemployment insurance, and workrelated injury compensation insurance paid by enterprises, which represents a  percent reduction of RMB. billion for large enterprises, and a complete exemption of RMB. billion for micro, small and medium enterprises. approval to , enterprises in difficulties to postpone the payment of their social insurance premiums, totaling RMB million. reimbursement of unemployment insurance premiums of RMB million to , enterprises, benefiting . million employees. provision of various employment subsidies totaling about RMB. billion to , people. creation of , new jobs in cities and towns, , new businesses hiring , employees, and jobs for , people with difficulty finding work. placement of . million surplus rural workers through relocation, a yearonyear increase of . percent.III. Full Respect for Workers Job PreferencesWorkers job preferences have always served as an important reference for the local government of Xinjiang in designing its employment policies, expanding employment channels, creating jobs, organizing vocational training sessions, and providing placement services. This ensures that the people can make their own choices about work and enjoy a happy life.Forming a comprehensive picture of the local labor resources. The local government has constantly improved the statistical indicators for measuring employment and unemployment. It has put in place systems for monitoring labor resources in rural areas, employment in enterprises, and supply and demand on the human resource market, and has set up an unemployment monitoring and alert mechanism accordingly. Based on the labor offices at townshipsubdistrict and villagecommunity levels, local authorities have established basic information on the number, age, gender, education level, and employment status of the workforce in their respective jurisdiction. The monitoring and survey results serve as reference for formulating employment policies and plans. Surveys show that by the end of , Xinjiang had a surplus rural workforce of . million people, among whom . million were in southern Xinjiang, accounting for almost twothirds of the total.Keeping track of the job preferences and needs of workers. The local government conducts regular surveys of the job preferences of workers, to keep track of their expectations in terms of location, position, salary, future prospects, and working and living environment. This allows the provision of more targeted services, aiming for the best possible match between employees and positions and promoting longterm stable employment. According to a survey in early , with a population of ,, the Aybagh Village in Gulbagh Town, Shache Yarkant County, Kashgar Prefecture, had a workforce of , people, of whom ,, or  percent, were interested in working outside their county. Among these people,  wished to do factory work in the expectation of an average salary of about RMB,  preferred to make a living by making naan bread, engage in catering or the dried fruit business, or pursue a career in the performing arts.In , a survey in three villages of Baghchi Town, Hotan County, Hotan Prefecture counted a total population of ,, with , people capable of work, of whom, ,, or  percent, were keen to work outside their home villages. Of the remainder,  preferred to work locally in township enterprises, village factories, or povertyrelief cooperatives offering an average monthly salary of RMB, the other  wished to start businesses locally, engaging in transport and logistics, property management and household services, construction, hairdressing, catering or retail stores. These indicators give the government a clearer understanding of the job preferences of workers so it can better satisfy their individual needs, effectively promote the orderly flow of the workforce, and improve employment stability and job satisfaction.Building employment information platforms. The local government has built an extensive contact network with employers to collect and collate job information, which is released timely with the help of information technology through the human resource market, public placement agencies, online service platforms, radio, TV, village and community bulletin boards, enabling people to look for the jobs that suit them best.For example, the Aksu Prefecture has released job and candidate information on its public placement service portal and its WeChat account, to build twoway selection platforms for employers and employees. Since , it has organized  job fairs, attracting , companies, providing over , job opportunities, and helping , people to find work. A poor villager named Habibulla Mamut from Aykol Town of Aksu City applied for a position with an electrical appliance company in Hangzhou at a local job fair, was offered the post, and earned RMB, that year, raising himself and his family out of poverty.Bolstering public employment services. The local government has built a welldefined, dynamic, fivetiered public employment service system for employers and employees, which is wellcoordinated at all levels and covers every part of Xinjiang. It has also expanded its services in areas such as policy advice, employment and unemployment registration, career guidance and recommendation, and skills and business startup training. By the end of , there were  human resource markets at the county level or above,  job placement agencies on the farms of the Xinjiang Production and Construction Corps, and , primarylevel labor offices across Xinjiang, providing employment services to more than . million people that year.Preventing and punishing any incidents of forced labor. Chinas Criminal Law, Labor Law, Labor Contract Law, and Public Security Administrative Punishment Law all stipulate that the following actions are strictly forbidden and will lead to administrative punishments forcing a person to work by means of violence, threat, or illegal limitation of personal freedom or affronting, physically punishing, beating, illegally searching or detaining an employee. Should it be established that a crime has taken place, the perpetrator will be subjected to a criminal investigation. Xinjiang strictly observes the relevant laws and regulations of the state, providing information on the law through education campaigns, strengthening the legal awareness of employers and employees, and conducting routine inspections to ensure that labor laws are enforced. The goal is to bring the establishment, management, supervision and arbitration of labor relations under legal scrutiny, and take resolute action to prevent or punish any incidents of forced labor.IV. Labor Rights ProtectionThe Chinese government is committed to respecting citizens right to work, safeguarding their legitimate labor rights and interests, and ensuring them a decent job. Strictly following the above principles as embodied in the Constitution of the Peoples Republic of China and relevant national laws, including the Labor Law, Labor Contract Law, Employment Promotion Law, Social Insurance Law, Law on the Protection of Womens Rights and Interests, and Law on the Protection of Persons with Disabilities, Xinjiang has formulated and implemented a series of autonomous regional regulations based on local conditions, including measures for implementing the national Employment Promotion Law, Regulations on Labor and Social Security Supervision, Law on the Protection of Womens Rights and Interests, and Law on the Protection of Persons with Disabilities, as well as the Regulations of the Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region on the Protection of Labor Rights and Interests. These laws and regulations provide a solid legal guarantee for citizens in Xinjiang to enjoy equal rights to work.Guaranteeing workers equal right to employment. In accordance with the principle of equal protection of civil rights, Xinjiang ensures that there is no discrimination against workers on the basis of ethnicity, region, gender, and religious belief, and that no individuals rights are restricted because of their urban or rural status, profession or position. In ensuring womens rights, Xinjiang strives to remove barriers to employment and formulates policies to support women in starting their own businesses. In , , new jobs were created in cities and towns , of these were for women, accounting for  percent of the total. To protect the labor rights of persons with disabilities, Xinjiang puts in more efforts on their vocational training, promotes their employment at public welfare enterprises and institutions, offers them flexible and less demanding jobs and public service positions, and advances their proportional employment. It also supports them in finding work through selfemployment, starting new businesses or other flexible ways of employment. By the end of , , of them were employed  almost  percent of the total workforce of persons with disabilities in Xinjiang.Guaranteeing workers right to remuneration. Xinjiang fully applies the countrys policy requirements on establishing a dynamic salary growth mechanism for enterprise employees, and improves the salary guidance systems for enterprises and for the labor market respectively. Each year from  to , it released a salary growth guideline for enterprises. It established and improved the minimum salary adjustment mechanism, raising the minimum salary by almost  percent from RMB, per month in  to RMB, per month in , which was at a high level in the country. Xinjiang has issued the Regulations of Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region on Collective Salary Negotiation of Enterprises and other regulations to promote and steadily expand the coverage of collective salary negotiation. The local government has also improved the system for guaranteeing salary payments. It punishes illegal and criminal acts of withholding labor remuneration, and thus ensures that workers receive their salaries in full and on time.Guaranteeing workers right to rest and leisure and to occupational safety. Xinjiang strictly applies relevant state regulations and adopts the system of the eighthour workday and hour workweek. If an employer wishes to extend working hours for operational reasons, it must consult with the trade union and the employees in accordance with the law, and arrange for compensation in the form of additional time off or remuneration. Workers are guaranteed the right to time off on weekends and statutory holidays including the Spring Festival, Roza Festival Eid alFitr and Corban Festival Eid alAdha. Xinjiang also strictly applies the national occupational safety and health regulations and standards, consistently improves the responsibility system for workplace safety and occupational disease prevention, and carries out inspections over occupational health law enforcement. As a result, the autonomous region has succeeded in preventing or reducing to a minimum all kinds of workplace safety incidents, and established fundamental control over or eliminated occupational disease hazards.Guaranteeing workers right to participate in social insurance. Xinjiang has fully implemented the national plan to ensure that everyone has access to social security and all those in need are covered. Workers in micro, small and mediumsized enterprises, and key groups including migrant workers, the selfemployed, and people engaged in new forms of business are encouraged to participate in social insurance. By the end of , more than  million people were participating in basic pension, unemployment, and workrelated injury insurance. Labor and social security supervision bodies at all levels continue to step up law enforcement, address reports and complaints about violations of relevant laws, regulations, and rules in a timely manner, and investigate and correct in accordance with the law illegal acts where employers fail to register for or contribute to social insurance, resolutely safeguarding the legitimate rights and interests of workers.Guaranteeing workers freedom of religious belief and the right to use their own spoken and written languages. Xinjiang strictly applies the Constitution and relevant national laws and regulations, including the Law on Regional Ethnic Autonomy, the Law on the Standard Spoken and Written Chinese Language, and the Regulations on Religious Affairs. The local government fully respects and guarantees the right of workers of all ethnic groups to freedom of religious belief, and ensures that no organization or individual interferes with this freedom. While promoting standard spoken and written Chinese in accordance with the law, Xinjiang fully respects and protects the rights of ethnic minority workers to use their own spoken and w