France holds delayed municipal elections, Macrons party faces challenge
2020-06-29 09:39
French President Emmanuel Macron enters the car as he leaves after casting his ballot during the second round of French municipal elections, in his home town of Le TouquetParisPlage, France June , . PhotoAgencies    PARIS  As COVID epidemic indicators keep improving in France, some . million voters are called to cast ballots on Sunday in the second round of municipal elections under strict health protocol. Of Frances , cities, towns and villages, about , had already elected their mayors in the first round held on March . The second round of mayoral elections was originally planned for March , but the worsening coronavirus outbreaks and the antivirus lockdown had forced the French government to postpone it. Sundays voting is taking place in , municipalities, as well as in the districts of Paris, Lyon and Marseille, where the councils were not elected in the first round. For the voting, the French Interior Ministry recommended voters should keep a safe distance from each other, wear a mask at polling stations and bring their own pens to sign off their vote. At a polling station in Paris northern suburb of Parmain, staff workers are wearing face masks. Stickers on the ground mark out where people should stand while waiting for their turn, and hand gel is provided upon entry. I am going to carry out my civic duty. This time, the context is different owing to the epidemic but it does not prevent me from doing what must be done. Certainly, we should adapt to this situation but we keep on living, Mathilde, a yearold pensioner, told Xinhua. Another voter, who gave her name as Nathalie, abstained in the first round due to concerns over the COVID pandemic. In the second round, things are improving, and the situation is better even if the virus still circulates. But Im not afraid. With my gloves, mask and pen, I think I can vote in security, she said. Since early March, , people in France had succumbed to COVID, the disease caused by the novel coronavirus. As of Friday, , COVID patients were still hospitalized, of whom  were in intensive care units. Since May , France has eased restriction measures step by step after a monthslong nationwide lockdown. The turnout is the main unknown of this election. It is difficult to know what will happen. The campaign, the longest in the th Republic of France, had low intensity and struggled to gain momentum due to economic concerns and renewed health concerns, said Frederic Dabi, director of the IFOP opinion institute. What is certain is that we will not be at the same level of , he added, estimating Sundays turnout to be at  percent. In the first round elections, only . percent of voters came to polling stations due to the risk of contamination, as against . percent in . Facing his first domestic midterm vote challenge, President Emmanuel Macron had bet on his La Republique en Marche LREM party  which he created in   to win control of major cities to anchor power at local levels, and offset losses in the rural zone where his party faces criticism of doing little for the working class, local media reported. Efforts by LREM to build grassroots support have fallen short, with most of its candidates failing to make it past the first round of voting on March , said stateowned international news television network France . The good news was that Prime Minister Edouard Philippe finished first in the port city of Le Havre, winning . percent of the vote and consolidating his chance to win the runoff. Philippe, whose popularity has soared over his handling of the COVID crisis, also faces a close fight to regain his mayors seat in the port of Le Havre. A loss by Philippe would almost certainly force Macron into a broad reshuffle of his cabinet, France  said. Opinion polls projected that the ruling partys candidates would fail to reconquer any big city, which would be a blow to Macrons plan to build a local power base he needs to extend his stay at the Elysee Palace for another fiveyear term. With  percent of vote intentions, the incumbent Socialist Mayor of Paris, Anne Hidalgo, had been viewed to be comfortably ahead of conservative rival Rachida Datis  percent. Macrons official candidate and former health minister Agnes Buzyn was deemed to be in third place with  percent, a recent Elabe survey showed. Candidates from the European Ecologists and the Greens EELV are expected to gain control of key cities, such as Lyon and Bordeaux, after a surge in the support they reported in the first round.