Foreigners reflect on Partys success over past century
2021-07-01 06:49
Two Chinese medical team members and local health workers pose for a photo during the COVID pandemic in Brazzaville, capital of the Republic of the Congo, on May  last year.?PhotoXinhua    Overseas friends of CPC laud multiple achievements Before he died in , Hans Muller repeatedly told his wife, Never leave China. Fiftyfive years earlier, when World War II broke out, Muller, a young German with a medical degree from Switzerland, arrived in Yanan, Shaanxi province. He fought side by side with the Communist Party of China and the Chinese people in the War of Resistance Against Japanese Aggression , and later in the War of Liberation in the late s. After the founding of New China in , he devoted himself to the countrys socialist construction. Since the CPC was founded in , it has attracted many foreign friends such as Muller during different periods of revolution, construction and reform. Their interactions with Chinese Communists over the past century have opened a window through which the world can better understand the Party. Today, the CPC is the worlds largest political party, with more than  million members. Over the past century, it has led the Chinese people to achieve national independence, end a humiliating history of being arbitrarily exploited by foreign powers and transformed China from an impoverished country into the worlds secondlargest economy, which enjoys allaround moderate prosperity. The CPC, which celebrates its centenary on Thursday, is leading the worlds most populous country toward the goal of the Chinese nations great rejuvenation. In , United States journalist Edgar Snow journeyed to northern areas of Shaanxi province to find out what Chinese Communists are like. In a cave dwelling, Mao Zedong and Snow had many lengthy discussions. Over a period of about four months, Snow also interviewed Peng Dehuai, Xu Haidong and other senior CPC officials and ordinary soldiers, and also experienced life in the Red Army. In his book Red Star Over China, Snow mentions the tenacity with which the Chinese Communists clung to their principles, as well as the invincible, incredible soldiers led by the CPC and the indestructible energy behind them. George Hatem, a US doctor known in China as Ma Haide, visited northern Shaanxi with Snow. Moved by the bravery of the Red Army, he decided to stay on at the end of his tour, joining the CPC in the first Westerner to gain Party membership. To make a contribution, one must have strong spiritual support, Hatem said late in life. Over the past  years, the CPC has stayed true to its founding aspiration and mission, leading the Chinese nation in a tremendous transformation. It has stood up, become better off and grown in strength. The nation has achieved two feats rarely seen around the worldrapid economic growth and longterm social stability. According to British political scholar Martin Jacques, the CPC has arguably been the worlds most successful political party over the past century.