Foreign brands stand out at consumer goods expo
2021-05-07 17:37
People visit the Hainan exhibition area of the first China International Consumer Products Expo in Haikou, South Chinas Hainan province, on Friday. PhotoXinhua    Foreign brands comprise the largest proportion of those at the consumer goods expo which opened Thursday in Haikou, South Chinas Hainan province, showing the potential of the Chinese market and the consumption upgrading trend, Workers Daily reported on Thursday. Covering , square meters, the China International Consumer Products Expo will be the largest consumer goods expo in the AsiaPacific region, the organizers said. The international exhibition area of the expo covers , square meters and has attracted  overseas companies and , brands from  countries and regions. The Chinese market serves as the dual engine of development and innovation for Johnson  Johnsons global business, said Farrell Wang, managing director of consumer health at Johnson  Johnson China. We are looking forward to making full use of our professional advantages as well as various supportive policies from Hainan province to better serve consumers via more innovative and highquality healthy consumer products, said Wang. Kentaro Fujiwara, Shiseido China CEO, said the company has fully felt the huge potential of the Chinese cosmetics market as Shiseido previously participated in the China International Import Expo held in Shanghai in  and . China has maintained order thanks to the governments normalized epidemic prevention and control measures amid the global COVID pandemic, and the stable social environment gives companies confidence in continuing to develop their businesses in China. With the help of open and highquality government platforms such as the consumer products expo, the company hopes to keep up with the pace of Chinas economic development and continue to take root in the Chinese market. Wang Yichuan, general manager of Swiss dietary supplements and functional foods maker Kingnature in China, said Chinese consumers have a deeper understanding of the concept of preventive health amid the global pandemic, and they are paying more attention to the raw materials, craftsmanship, quality and reputation of the products. During the expo, the company will release a variety of rehabilitation programs in professional fields. As a public service platform, the consumer goods expo can not only stimulate consumption demand, and further improve consumption levels, but also promote mutual learning, exchanges and cooperation between domestic and foreign counterparts to achieve higherquality development, according to Wang Bingnan, viceminister of commerce.