Food and drug safety crackdown nets , offenders
2021-02-19 15:33
PhotoIC    More than , people nationwide were prosecuted for food and drug safety crimes following a month joint crackdown, the Supreme Peoples Procuratorate said on Friday. The SSP, the State Administration for Market Regulation and the National Medical Products Administration conducted the operation from September  to December last year to combat crimes involving food and drug safety breaches and to promote adequate management procedures in the area.? Market regulators across the country investigated , cases involving food safety violations, while authorities overseeing medical products handled , drug cases during the operation.? In May, the peoples procuratorate in Yongxing county, Hunan province, filed a case against the local market supervision administration for failing to perform its duties in a fake infant milk powder case, which resulted in babies contracting rickets.? From December  to August , a chain selling products for infants misled parents into buying the fake milk powder. The chain operator was fined  million yuan ,, following a recommendation from the local procuratorate. After the COVID outbreak, the three departments cracked down on the production and sale of counterfeit and substandard protective products and medicines to ensure the quality and safety of drugs and medical equipment, said an SPP official.? The State Administration for Market Regulation strengthened supervision and law enforcement to ensure the price, quality and safety of epidemic prevention supplies. It also acted to maintain the quality and stable supply of peoples daily necessities. The National Medical Products Administration organized largescale inspections of medical devices used for epidemic prevention and control and promoted the research and development of vaccines.? Two vaccines have been conditionally approved, while  other types have been given the green light for clinical trials. Of those,  vaccines are undergoing phase III clinical trials, according to the administration.