Firms turn factory lines to maskmaking units
2020-02-10 17:43
In Changyuan, near Xinxiang in Chinas Henan province, face mask factories are working around the clock to increase output. Photo provided to chinadaily.com.cn    Several Chinese automobile makers, smartphone assemblers and baby care product producers are starting to churn out medical masks at their revamped factories, as part of the nations broader fight against the novel coronavirus outbreak. Under strict standards, these companies are either purchasing new production lines, or temporarily transforming their existing dustfree assembly lines to produce crucial medical equipment, so as to meet the surging demand for medical masks and protective suits in China. Foxconn Technology Group, the worlds largest contract electronics manufacturer and a key Apple supplier, for instance, said a unit of the company has purchased production lines in an industrial park to produce masks. The company said it is applying for relevant certificates needed to make masks and by the end of February, its daily production volume of masks is expected to hit  million pieces. Harbin Pharmaceutical Group Holding Co Ltd, better known as Hayao, is also joining the push. It has purchased two N facial mask production lines, which arrived on Friday, with a passenger train carrying the manufacturing equipment from Guangdong province. One production line has been assembled overnight in our factory, said Sun Jintao, director of equipment management at the companys factory. It is expected to start production next Monday, with a daily output of , to , pieces. In Liuzhou, Guangxi Zhuang autonomous region,  production lines, including four for N facial masks and eight for surgical masks, will be put into operation by the end of February after reconstruction in a ,squaremeter dustfree workshop in SGMW, a joint venture between General Motors and Liuzhou Wuling Motors founded in . Daily output can reach more than . million pieces, which will greatly help relieve the shortage of medical supplies in Guangxi for epidemic prevention and control. In Fujian, workers of the famous diaper manufacturer Daddy Baby are busy revamping their original production lines for mask production. By midFeb, the first production lines can provide . million masks per day, said Lin Yanting, deputy general manager. And daily output can reach . million pieces by the end of March with expanded production lines. After the epidemic passes, the modified mask production line cannot be reinvented, he said. At that time, we may face the problem of overcapacity. However, we believe each mask we produce may save one more person, he said. Under such situations, demand is also soaring for specialized nonwoven fabric, the essential material needed for making masks and protective medical clothing. As a major producer of polypropylene, the raw material for nonwoven fabric in the country, Hohhot Petrochemical Company in North Chinas Inner Mongolia autonomous region has put in great efforts to produce polypropylene under strict standards. The company plans to produce , metric tons of polypropylene. Each ton of the raw material can be used to produce about , protective masks. Smartphone vendors including Oppo and Vivo, are also helping produce masks, in the hope of meeting the publics massive demand for medical equipment. Lian Weiliang, deputy head of the National Development and Reform Commission, said during a recent media conference that enterprises should not worry about overcapacity problems after the epidemic. The government will purchase the remaining masks as reserves, he said. As long as the enterprises meet the production standards, they can start at full capacity. Yang Jun in Guiyang, Yuan Hui in Hohhot and Shi Ruipeng in Nanning contributed to this story.