Fight against virus continues in Dalian
2020-01-29 23:13
A police officer in protective gear is seen aboard a flight at Putuoshan Airport in Zhoushan, Zhejiang province, Jan , . Photo by Zou Xunyongfor China Daily    All  members of a tour group to Japan from Dalian, which was reported to have been driven by a person confirmed on Jan  to have the novel coronavirus, were traced and given medical attention, local authorities said. The Japanese bus driver was reported to have driven the Dalian group after driving groups from Wuhan in Central Chinas Hubei province, the epicenter of the novel coronavirus outbreak. The group, organized by a local travel agency in Dalian, departed from the city on Jan  and returned on Jan  from Kansai International Airport in Osaka by Spring Airlines flight C. The citys headquarter office on joint prevention and control of the novel coronavirus suggest other passengers on this flight pay close attention to their own health condition. They are suggested to go to the fever clinic of the medical institution immediately if they have any fever, cough or other symptoms. A total of five cases of the novel coronavirus have been confirmed in Dalian. The first patient recovered from the infection and was released from hospital at  pm on January . Liaoning province activated a LevelI alert for a major public health emergency and carried out stringent control and prevention measures on Jan . The CPC Dalian Committee and Dalian Municipal Peoples Government also took intensified prevention and control efforts in an orderly way. On Jan , city headquarters issued its first order to government institutions and related units, taking prevention and control of the epidemic as the current top priority. According to the order, relevant personnel should immediately stop vacations the Spring Festival holiday was set from Jan  to  and has now been extended and return to the post to perform their duties grassroots institutions should monitor the health status of residents, migrants and returnees every day every district should set up an isolated place with separate facilities for meals, toilets, necessary daily necessities and security facilities and prepare a spare location. All those who have been to Wuhan since Jan  or Hubei province since Jan  must register with their community and monitor body temperature for further treatment. Other measures include postponing the spring semesters of schools and universities, and adopting transport restrictions. We must strictly implement the order, said Tan Zuojun, Party chief of Dalian, during the meeting held on Tuesday by city headquarters. Fully implement all measures for joint prevention and control, build a tight defensive line for mass prevention and control, ensure that we keep our responsibilities and resolutely win the battle against the contagion, he said. In a letter to foreign friends in Dalian released on Tuesday, the citys foreign affairs office suggests closely following official releases about the citys designated medical institutions, epidemic control and prevention measures and other important information. It reads in part Cut down on outdoor activities, avoid crowded venues. Largescale public activities such as parties or dinners should be suspended. Take body temperatures at regular intervals. In case of such symptoms as fever, cough, chest distress or fatigue, do wear medical protective masks and get checked at the citys designated medical institutions ASAP.