When chickens arrived, people prospered
2020-11-18 18:10
Workers perform various jobs for Xinjiang Meibit Group Co Ltd, a major chicken production company in Moyu county, Xinjiang Uygur autonomous region. About half the companys employees come from poor families. Photo by Mao Weihua  for chinadaily.com.cn    Gulbakram Kadir, , burst into tears when she received the first salary in her life, saying she never thought she could make money by her own hands. Now a worker at Xinjiang Meibit Group Co Ltd, a major chicken production company in Moyu county, Xinjiang Uygur autonomous region, she gets paid more than her peers because of her hard work. As with most of women from the Kashboy village in the county, she once relied on her husband for a living. He worked far from home. I had nothing to do besides taking care of the children, she said, adding that she seldom left the village and didnt think of having her own income stream. After her divorce, she had to move to the house of her grandfather. She felt hopeless and embarrassed. My parents died long ago. Though relatives treated me nicely, I felt ashamed every time they gave me living expenses, she said. Before long she went to a training school and applied for a job at Meibit. Moyu, a povertystricken county, brought in the company in April  to reduce poverty. The company now has  chicken production raising centers in  surrounding villages and towns, which can ship  million to  million chickens a month. Its workshops can slaughter , chickens daily, and its deepprocessing workshops can produce , metric tons of chicken meat annually. Products are sold in  provinces and regions across the nation using coldchain logistics. Annual output reaches  billion yuan  million. Zheng Hailong, CEO of the company, said more than half of its about , workers come from poor families and the average monthly salary reaches about , yuan. Abdukeram Kadir, who is from a poor family, said he was promoted to head of a workshop after about a year and can now earn , yuan a month. He was even happier when his wife was also employed by the company recently. Led by the local government, the company and cooperatives, families were offered chicks, fodder, technical guidance and epidemic prevention classes, free of charge. They then sell adult chickens to the company. The program has benefited , poor families so far. Besides, the company has set up  dining cars in Moyu, to offer , jobs. Ayxam Turniyaz, who works in the dining cars, said she used to plant grapes at home. Since May , she began to cook and sell food to customers, earning a salary of , yuan a month. She said she likes her new job. Besides chicken, Moyu also deals in sheep, rabbits, pigeons, ducks and geese by linking leading companies with poor families. Zheng said the local government helped the company select locations, build factories, recruit workers and get loans from banks during the difficult times of the COVID pandemic.