FAWVolkswagen eyes huge potential of China auto market
2021-05-21 09:44
FAWVolkswagen employees work on an assembly line at the automakers Tianjin plant. Provided to China Daily    CHANGCHUN  SinoGerman joint venture FAWVolkswagen continues to hold a leading position in the worlds largest auto market and eyes a rosy future. Dr Andre Stoffels, FAWVolkswagen first vicepresident Finance, made the remarks during a recent exclusive interview with Xinhua. This year marks the th anniversary of the companys establishment in Changchun, capital of Chinas Jilin province. Over the past decades, FAWVolkswagen has grown into one of the bestselling passenger vehicle manufacturers in China. Stoffels attributed the companys booming development to the sound business environment in Jilin. A stable industry and supply chain, a great number of talent and a friendly auto ecosystem in Changchun rendered it much easier to set up auto manufacturing plants here, he noted. In , the companys vehicle sales rose . percent yearonyear to over . million units. In the first quarter of , its vehicle sales soared  percent yearonyear to , units, according to the company. China is already the leading auto market and will continue to be the worlds largest auto market in the future, said Stoffels. In recent years, the market share of new energy vehicles NEVs is expanding in China. In , sales of NEVs in China went up . percent yearonyear to . million units. In Stoffelss opinion, the betterthanexpected NEVs sales came amid the countrys efforts to encourage their use and ease pressure on the environment, which has enhanced the market enthusiasm for ecofriendly cars. FAWVolkswagen is actively promoting carbon emissionfree production in its manufacturing sites in China, he said. Stoffels spoke highly of Chinas openingup policies, saying that opening up has not only brought foreign capital but new ideas and concepts into China. Stoffels also praised the efficient epidemic prevention and control measures against COVID taken by Chinas central and local governments. As a big company, FAWVolkswagen has not reported any infection of COVID among its employees, he said, adding that Chinas epidemic prevention and favorable financial measures support us during this time of crisis. We were among the first companies to ramp up production after the epidemic, said Stoffels, adding that as global auto brands are turning their eyes to the booming Chinese auto market, FAWVolkswagen will strive to keep its leading position in China. Chinese automaker FAW Group sold over  million vehicles in the first quarter of this year, a . percent yearonyear surge. Founded in  in Changchun, FAW Group is seen as the cradle of Chinas auto industry.