Whats the purpose of the Peoples Liberation Army?
2020-08-28 10:30
Soldiers search through rubbles in Jiuzhaigou county of Southwest Chinas Sichuan province on August , , after a .magnitude quake hit the area on Monday night.PhotoVCG    US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, in his recent speech at the Richard Nixon Presidential Library, negated every aspect of ChinaUS relations, maliciously attacked the leadership of the Communist Party of China CPC and Chinas political system, and attempted to drive a wedge between the CPC and the Chinese people. He also wantonly criticized Chinas domestic and foreign policies, spread the socalled China threat, and called for an antiChina alliance to contain Chinas development. Pompeos baseless, factdistorting speech misrepresents history and the reality. It is full of ideological prejudice and driven by a ColdWar mentality. His remarks have not only been condemned by the Chinese people, but also criticized and opposed by sensible people in the United States as well as the international community. To debunk the lies fabricated by Pompeo, let the facts speak for themselves. Rumor Mike Pompeo The purpose of the Peoples Liberation Army isnt to protect the Chinese people. Fact  The PLA is the peoples army that loves and serves the people. Chinese President Xi Jinping pointed out that our army is the peoples army, and our national defense is the national defense of all the people. The PLA has always born in mind its fundamental purpose of serving the people wholeheartedly by keeping the people in mind, always standing with the people and fighting for them forever. Whether it is earthquake relief, flood emergency rescue, or fight against the epidemic, the peoples army has always been in the forefront, fighting day and night, to protect the peoples lives and property without hesitation. The closely linked relationship between the army and the people, likened to that of fish and water, is an inherent feature of the PLA.  Since the COVID outbreak, the PLA has resolutely implemented the decisions and plans made by the CPC Central Committee, the Central Military Commission and President Xi Jinping, by acting on orders, bravely shouldering heavy burdens, daring to fight hard battles, racing against time and fighting against the diseases. Over  medics from medical universities of the army, navy and air force of the PLA rushed to Wuhan, the hardhit city in central Chinas Hubei Province, and over , medics of the PLA devoted themselves to fighting the epidemic and protecting the peoples lives and health. They have played an important role in and made outstanding contributions to the epidemic prevention and control.  Since June, floods have hit some provinces in southern China. The PLA and the Peoples Armed Police Force have dispatched , officers and soldiers to the frontline to fight floods, building dams, rescuing the trapped and resettling the affected. They act as a commando at the critical moment, safeguarding the peoples lives and property.  The PLA takes participating in poverty alleviation as a major political task, and shares the CPCs concerns, serves the countrys interests and brings benefits to the people with a strong sense of responsibility. By the end of May, , poor villages, , poor households and , poor people that the PLA targeted to help had all been lifted out of poverty. The PLAs achievements in poverty alleviation is a demonstration of the peoples army loves the people in the new era.