Eyes in the sky helping fight pandemic
2020-04-16 10:07
A disinfection squad uses a drone to spray disinfectant in the streets of Cannes, France, on Friday. PhotoAgencies    Chinese drone makers leverage cuttingedge tech to assist in global battle against COVID Chinese drone manufacturers are leveraging their technological prowess in helping other countries combat the novel coronavirus pandemic as infection rates and death tolls around the world continue to increase dramatically. Shenzhen, Guangdong provincebased DJI, the worlds largest commercial drone manufacturer by market share, said its drones have been used in some European countriessuch as France, Spain and Italyto effectively enforce lockdowns or spray disinfectant in residential areas as part of a broader drive to contain the spread of the contagion. Drone technology has emerged as a key tool to support frontline staff who are at high risk as they work to keep communities safe. Police in Nice, France, with the help of Dronea French company specialized in shooting aerial pictures and acquiring geospatial datahave deployed DJIs Mavic  Enterprise drones with its mounted loudspeaker to enforce lockdown measures, according to DJI. The drones fly around the city center and areas prone to mass gatherings to broadcast standard precautions like keeping a safe distance or traveling only when purchasing necessities. Nice was the first French city to adopt such measures, paving the way for more cities to follow suit. Spain is the first European country to use DJIs agricultural drones to spray disinfectant over large areas. Both Italy and Spain also have used DJIs technology to monitor peoples movements in public places to reduce infections during the ongoing battle against the deadly virus. DJI is also rolling out a set of initiatives to aid qualified police, health departments, the Red Cross and fire and rescue service agencies across Europe. Our experience working with public health and safety stakeholders in China since the early days of this pandemic has given us valuable insights and understanding that we can expand across the globe, said Romeo Durscher, DJIs senior director of public safety integration. As the fight against coronavirus moved to Europe, we have seen police using drones for similar tasks, from identifying large gatherings in Italy to warning beachgoers to go home in France, Durscher said. Moreover, a police department in the US state of California is set to use drones equipped with loudspeakers and cameras to enforce coronavirus lockdown. It bought two , DJI drones, doubling the size of its small fleet, and rigged them with speakers and night vision cameras. Drones are playing a critical role in improving the efficiency of antipandemic activities and reducing the burden of frontline service personnel. This experience is beginning to be valued by European countries and the US, said Xie Tiandi, DJIs director of communications. The company is mobilizing resources and providing equipment, technical training and aftersales services to pandemicstricken countries around the world, Xie said. Founded in , DJI has a share of almost  percent of the consumer drone market worldwide, with Europe and North America its biggest customers. It is ramping up efforts to expand its product portfolio. The UK government has decided to use Chinese drones for disinfection operations to fight the contagions spread in the country. Chinas largest agricultural drone maker, XAG Co Ltd, is prepared to provide technical support to  British police drone teams and  similar operations in the countrys fire service. Its drones have also been applied in Italy to disinfect trash collection stations and parking lots in a bid to reduce infections. XAG has also teamed up with local authorities in South Korea and Vietnam to use drones to disinfect schools and government office areas, the company said. We are fully committed to supporting drone disinfection operations and pandemic prevention programs by governments and providing technical support to our overseas partners, said Justin Gong, cofounder and vicepresident of the Guangzhoubased company. Depending on our accumulated experience in China, we can provide customized solutions for different scenarios, including schools, business districts, garbage disposal sites and hospitals, Gong added. Yang Jincai, director of Shenzhen Unmanned Aerial Vehicle Industry Association, said drones are playing a vital and positive role in the international fight against the spread of coronavirus, including monitoring crowds, spraying disinfectant and delivering critical supplies. In the past, drones were rarely used in the prevention and control of epidemics overseas. Now, more people are learning about the cuttingedge technologies and wide application scenarios, which will be beneficial for the rapid development of Chinese drone makers in the future, Yang said. Drones have been used in China as key tools for responding to the COVID outbreak via aerial disinfection, medical sample transport and delivery of other goods. XAG allocated  million yuan , for voluntary drone disinfection operations in China to fight the outbreak. The company said more than , agricultural drones have been donated to join disinfection work, covering an area of  million square meters across China since the COVID outbreak. DJI has deployed its agriculturaluse drones in certain areas to spray disinfectants. Target areas include factories, residential areas, hospitals and waste treatment plants. Its drones have been used for measuring body temperatures from a distance in many communities and at road checkpoints.