Express delivery helps flow of goods rebound
2020-05-12 09:27
An express worker processes packages at a delivery station in Qinhuangdao, Hebei province, on Feb . Photo by CAO JIANXIONG  for CHINA DAILY    The flow of delivered goods, once interrupted by the COVID outbreak, has notably recovered in Beijing. More people can receive goods at their doorstep or downstairs, since Beijing said at the end of April that express delivery workers can enter residential communities with greencode registrationa verification system for entering and leaving residential areas or densely populated public places. The goods ordered by our clients have further diversified from packed rice, vegetables, toilet paper, edible oil, snacks and ethanol for disinfection during the FebruaryMarch period, to sun cream, summer clothing, books, electronics, fresh fruit and wine in April, said Li Jie, a yearold delivery worker at a Beijing service depot of logistics company ZTO Express. To prevent infection, the company has given Li and his colleagues sufficient protective supplies such as masks and gloves. It has also required them during the outbreak to sterilize their electric vehicles and goodsdistribution areas within or outside residential communities at least three times a day. In contrast to exportoriented companies that have been hit hard by declining global demand during the first quarter of the year, the rise of ecommercebased platforms, express delivery, takeaway and related industries has become a symbol of Chinas highly mobilized, dynamic economic forms amid the COVID outbreak, said Liao Tao, general manager of China Post Groups delivery branch. Couriers and takeaway riders these days are often called the capillaries of the city, he said, adding that these industries have been helpful in creating jobs during the tough period. By supporting peoples daily lives and helping businesses resume operations over the past three months, Wang Xingting, a delivery rider at an SF Express service depot in Beijings Haidian district, said his depots workload surged since the Spring Festival period. He said a number of former fitness instructors and employees of nightclubs and restaurants have joined his company due to the temporary shutdown of their work sites after the Spring Festival holiday. Thanks to the countrys continuous effort to effectively contain the spread of the virus, Chinas average daily express shipment volume had exceeded  million pieces in late April, returning to the normal operational level before the COVID outbreak, according to data released by the State Post Bureau. Online retail sales of physical goods currently account for onefifth of the total retail sales of the countrys consumer goods, said Bian Zuodong, deputy directorgeneral of the bureaus department of market supervision. He said the government, which is eager to upgrade the sectors earning strength, will encourage ecommerce and logistics service providers to expand three sectorsrural, manufacturing and international marketsto further stimulate domestic consumption and facilitate the resumption of production and exports.