Exports still going strong despite pandemic
2021-06-01 14:52
Aerial photo shows a cargo ship pulling out at the Qianwan Container Terminal in Qingdao, East Chinas Shandong province. PhotoXinhua    Chinas foreign trade is expected to maintain doubledigit growth in May, said the Securities Daily, citing some experts on Tuesday. The countrys exports will continue to grow at a high rate in May, due to the global economys recovery and Chinas strong production capacity, although renminbi appreciation will pressure exports, said Securities Daily, citing Luo Zhiheng, chief macroeconomic analyst at the research institute of Yuekai Securities. Moreover, imports in May will also maintain a high growth rate amid the domestic demand to overseas products, said Luo. Aiming to realize carbon neutrality goals and production limitation for environment protection, the countrys demand for highcarbon products from overseas will increase, as well as the products price, which will also drive up imports, Luo added. Thanks to the effective prevention and control of the COVID pandemic, China took the lead in resuming work and production, which supports the foreign trade recovery, said Liu Xiangdong, a researcher with the China Center for International Economic Exchanges, to the Securities Daily. With the recurrence of the COVID pandemic in other countries, the overseas demand to medical protection and vaccine supplies remains strong, result in Chinas foreign trade continues grow in doubledigit, Liu said. The countrys foreign trade will enter to an accelerated growth phase, because due to COVID global production capacity cant be released, and China has shaken off the impact of the epidemic and accelerated the recovery of production capacity which can quickly fill both the global supply and demand market, said Song Xiangqing, deputydean of School of Government at Beijing Normal University, said to Securities Daily. According to the General Administration of Customs, Chinas foreign trade expanded . percent yearon yearto . trillion yuan . trillion in the JanuaryApril period as global recovery picked up and pentup demand was unleashed. In April, the figure reached . trillion yuan, a surge of . percent from a year earlier.