Experts voice optimism for economic recovery
2020-03-09 09:11
A shipbuilding factory in Nantong, Jiangsu province, in full operation. Photo by?Xu CongjunFor China Daily    National resilience tipped to overcome crisis Editors Note Nations are collaborating with each other on the fight against the novel coronavirus pneumonia outbreak to control the damage to peoples health and the impact on the global economy. Here, in the first part of a series titled One World, One Fight, we look at how countries can work together. The Chinese economy could be poised for a strong recovery in the second quarter as the nation gets back to work, according to experts. Businesses, particularly small and mediumsized enterprises in the service sector, including shops and restaurants, have been hit hard by the novel coronavirus pneumonia outbreak as people have stayed at home. The extent of Chinas recovery may yet also depend on how badly affected the global economy is by the virus, with increasing numbers of cases, including fatalities, being reported worldwide. JP Morgan Research, the research arm of the investment bank, is predicting that the Chinese economy will grow by  percent quarteronquarter from April to June after contracting by . percent in the first three months of this year, compared with the final quarter of . Jing Ulrich, the banks vicechairman of global banking and AsiaPacific, believes such a rebound would demonstrate the core strength of the countrys economy. Chinas ability to overcome the current crisis and continue with longterm plans will demonstrate national resilience, she said. Although the resumption of work has been slower than anticipated, we expect that economic activities will rebound from late March and into the second quarter. The first quarter has been dominated by protracted factory shutdowns, with many businesses not opening after Spring Festival, which has severely impacted global supply chains. Last month, Chinas manufacturing purchasing managers index slumped to ., the lowest level on record, down from a neutral  in January, according to data released by the National Bureau of Statistics on Feb . Businesses are gradually returning to some level of normality. More than  percent of companies with annual revenue of more than  million yuan . million in Zhejiang province, which is renowned for its entrepreneurial culture, have resumed operations, according to provincial government data released on Feb . In Guangdong province, the countrys manufacturing hub,  percent of such companies are now up and running. Corresponding figures elsewhere are Shanghai,  percent Jiangsu province,  percent Fujian province,  percent and Beijing,  percent. The average rate of resumption nationwide stands at  percent. On Feb , President Xi Jinping said in a speech in Beijing that there needed to be an orderly resumption of work without compromising the unremitting efforts to prevent and control the spread of the virus. Imogen PageJarrett, a research analyst in Beijing for The Economist Intelligence Unit, predicts that the Chinese government will bring the virus under control by the end of this month. At that point, the authorities will be able to lift quarantine measures and economic activity will begin to normalise. Factories will return to full output levels and all employees will return to work, she said. However, should a largescale outbreak occur in another province outside Hubei, where the outbreak emerged, it would take longer for the authorities to manage. There is also a risk of it being reimported from countries like South Korea the nation other than China worst affected by the virus. PageJarrett said not all sectors of the economy will have been damaged by the epidemic. Firms offering online services, such as gaming, education and ecommerce, are likely to see a strong pickup in their business, given that people are staying at home and spending more time on their phones, she said. She added that many smaller companies in badly affected sectors, such as bricksandmortar retail, catering and accommodation, could go out of business, while larger companies will likely have the resources to overcome the crisis.