Experts paper warns of possible epidemic rebound
2020-02-17 20:34
Staff members work in a laboratory in Wuhan, Central Chinas Hubei province, Feb , . PhotoXinhua    China needs to prepare for a possible rebound of the novel coronavirus disease COVID epidemic in the coming weeks and months, said a newly published paper by the Novel Coronavirus Pneumonia Emergency Response Epidemiology Team. The paper was published on Monday on the website of China CDC Weekly, organized by the Chinese Center for Disease Control and Prevention. The epidemic has spread very quickly, taking only  days to expand from Hubei to the rest of mainland China, the paper said. It added that China needs to prepare for a possible resurgence of the epidemic because huge numbers of people will soon be returning to work and school after the extended New Year holiday. The paper, titled Vital Surveillances The Epidemiological Characteristics of an Outbreak of  Novel Coronavirus Diseases COVID  China, , is about an epidemiological study based on the first , cases of COVID found on the Chinese mainland from the first recognition of the outbreak on Dec  to Feb . The , patients are confirmed cases, suspected cases, clinically diagnosed cases  only in Hubei province, and asymptomatic cases, it said. Patient numbers and information are from Chinas Infectious Disease Information System which records all cases with their national identification numbers. But the study has stripped all personal identifying information during its research. A main finding of the study is that this novel coronavirus is highly contagious. But, it is fortunate that COVID has been mild for  percent of patients and has a very low overall case fatality rate of . percent, the paper said. The massive vigorous actions taken by the Chinese government have slowed down the epidemic in China and curbed spread to the rest of the world,  the paper said. To date, there is no evidence of a superspreader event occurring in any of the Chinese health facilities serving the COVID patients. However, we do not know whether this is due to the nature of the virus itself or whether these events have been successfully prevented. According to statistics in the paper, as of Feb , a total of , confirmed cases were reported from , counties of  provinces, autonomous regions and municipalities across China. Among them, confirmed cases in Hubei accounted for . percent. A total of , deaths occurred among the , confirmed cases, thus the overall case fatality rate was . percent, while the case fatality rate was much higher  . percent for the group that are  years of age or above, which is also the highest. According to an epidemiological curve in the study, which is the first such description in history, the peak onset of symptoms for all cases overall occurred on Feb , after which time onsets of symptoms have declined. The study showed that . percent of confirmed cases were aged between  to  and . percent of confirmed cases were diagnosed in Hubei. About  percent of confirmed cases had Wuhanrelated exposure while . percent of them were mild cases, it said. By gender, the case fatality rate for males was . percent, and . percent for females.