Expert Yingkou may be origin of COVID clusters
2021-05-17 07:58
A man gets vaccinated for COVID at a community healthcare center in Shenyang, Liaoning province, on Sunday. Liaoning reported one new confirmed locally transmitted COVID case in the first  hours of Sunday in Shenyang.?LIU BAOCHENGCHINA NEWS SERVICE    A new case of COVID in Liaoning province was confirmed on Sunday by disease control authorities, who suspect the woman was infected in the port city of Yingkou over the May Day holiday. The patient, , had traveled from Shenyang to Yingkou with  people between May  and May , according to the Shenyang Center for Disease Control and Prevention. She was given a nucleic acid test for COVID on Saturday after coming into contact with a patient from Anhui province who was confirmed to have the virus, said Wang Ping, deputy director of the Shenyang CDC. The womans son, , tested positive for coronavirus on Saturday. The two infections in Shenyang were not listed in the priority group for COVID vaccination, which covers people ages  to .And they are now in good condition, both physically and psychologically, said Wang. Anhui province reported a COVID case on Thursday in the city of Luan. By Saturday, it had confirmed five cases two in Hefei, the provincial capital, and three in Luan. Luan has conducted citywide nucleic acid testing and by Sunday afternoon, more than . million samples had been tested, China Central Television reported. Wu Zunyou, chief epidemiologist at the Chinese Center for Disease Control and Prevention, said on Saturday that the resurgence of COVID may have originated in Yingkou and be linked to imported cases. Although Luan reported the first confirmed case in the current cluster, Wu said the onset of the Yingkoulinked cases was earlier. Yingkou is a major port, which sends and receives cargo to  ports in more than  countries and regions. Usually, it has been either imported cases or items that have resulted in new cases in China, Wu said. As an inland province, its less likely that Anhuis resurgence resulted from imported cases. Chinas National Health Commission has sent working groups to Liaoning and Anhui to guide the prevention and control work of the COVID epidemic. As of Sunday morning, there had been  mediumrisk regions relating to the resurgence of sporadic COVID cases on the Chinese mainland. Ten are in Liaoning and three in Anhui.