Expats resume work in China as business reboots
2020-08-25 09:25
TIANJINWith various events lined up this month, Angiola Rucci, a senior manager at Triumph Asia Co, an Italybased event planning company, has been busy shuttling between exhibition venues in Shanghai.Exhibition projects of many companies at home and abroad got postponed or canceled due to the COVID pandemic. However, our business in China has been back on track. In August alone, we have five projects in Shanghai, said Rucci, who had to undergo a day quarantine upon arrival in Tianjin.In compliance with Chinas epidemic control regulations, Rucci and some  passengers on flight NO from Italy to Tianjin underwent quarantine after arriving at the Tianjin Binhai International Airport. She said many of the passengers on board were foreign employees returning to work in China.As soon as she finished the quarantine on Aug  and tested negative on her nucleic acid test, she left for Shanghai. A day later, she made her way to the launch venue of a motorcycle.Maria Criscuolo, chairwoman and CEO of Triumph Group International, the parent company of Triumph Asia Co, said the companys employees are returning to China. She added that she is confident about the Chinese market and the companys business in the country since measures have been taken to control COVID.Rucci agreed. China has done a great job in epidemic prevention and control, she said. Special entrances and lounges have been assigned for inbound passengers at the airport. We were picked up by designated vehicles upon arrival.Rucci, mother of a yearold baby, has been able to attend online meetings while looking after her child during the quarantine.In addition to three meals a day, we were provided with abundant fruits and vegetables. They also prepared a baby bed for me, she added. I could not see their faces under the hazmat suits, but I could feel they were considerate and thoughtful.Elena Faoro, , who was on the same flight with Rucci, said in fluent Chinese that she has been working and living in China for  years. She volunteered as an online interpreter for other inbound passengers and helped them communicate with medics at the quarantine site.The attendants and medics always responded promptly to our requirements, and tried their best to help everyone solve problems, Faoro said. She said quarantine staff took their temperatures, helped them buy daily necessities, delivered three meals a day on time, disinfected the corridors and regularly removed garbage.I read books, did indoor exercises and dealt with the companys business during quarantine, said Faoro, who has returned to her clothing materials production company in Jiangsu province.We are determined to continue developing the Chinese market and seeking new business partners in China, Faoro said.