European nations call for sticking to restriction measures
2020-04-12 07:25
Customers wearing protective masks practice social distancing while waiting in line to enter a supermarket, during the coronavirus disease outbreak, in Barcelona, Spain, on April , . PhotoAgencies    BRUSSELS  Lots of European countries on Saturday urged the public to stick to restriction measures during the Easter holiday as British Prime Minister Boris Johnson continued his coronavirus recovery in hospital. Consecutive drops Spain and France, which are among the hardesthit European countries, embraced some signs of hope on Saturday in their fight against the coronavirus. The number of deaths in a hour period from COVID fell for the third consecutive day in Spain, according to data collected by the countrys Ministry of Health, Consumer Affairs and Social Welfare by  hours on Friday and made public on Saturday. The total number of people who have succumbed to the viruscaused disease in Spain rose by  to ,, fewer than the  new deaths in the previous hour period and the  confirmed on Thursday. It was the fewest daily number of COVID deaths since March . However, the data should be treated with caution due to the fact that Thursday and Friday were public holidays, which could have led to delay in reporting data. Spains tally of infections stood at , by Saturday. In neighboring France, , patients were hospitalized in the last  hours, bringing the countrys total hospitalized COVID patients to ,, including , in intensive care units ICUs. The number of patients in ICUs was down by  on a daily basis, a thirdday consecutive decline. It is another very slight decrease in the need of intensive care place, which will relieve our caregivers, especially in intensive care, said Director General of Health Jerome Salomon. Across the English Channel, British Prime Minister Boris Johnson is making very good progress as he continues his coronavirus recovery in hospital, Downing Street said Saturday. Johnson was moved to a general ward on Thursday evening after spending three days in intensive care. He was taken to the hospital on Sunday,  days after testing positive for the virus. The death toll of those hospitalized in Britain who tested positive for the novel coronavirus has reached , as of Friday afternoon.