European businesses, overseas Chinese give to help fight virus
2020-01-30 18:04
Workers unload aid materials from a cargo plane of China Postal Airlines at the Wuhan Tianhe International Airport in Wuhan, Central Chinas Hubei province, Jan , . PhotoXinhua    Overseas Chinese communities and business groups in Europe have joined the fight against the outbreak of the new coronavirus in China. Chinese Students and Scholars Association in the United Kingdom, the largest community for Chinese students and scholars in the country, has opened an online channel on Wednesday to raise funds for medical supplies in Wuhan City, where the outbreak is most severe. We learned hospitals in Wuhan and other places were extremely short of medical supplies and the situation was very grim, the statement said. We decided to launch this donation campaign and it is hoped that all local branches of our association and the Chinese students in Britain will actively participate in donations and work together to overcome difficulties. Their fundraising goal to purchase , N masks, , disposable pieces of medical protective clothing, , disposable medical gloves and other medical supplies in the UK and send them to China. The statement said this fundraising campaign has been reported to and received full support from the education section of the Chinese embassy in the UK. At least two UKbased logistics companies, STO Express and Parcel, which specialize in UKChina routes have issued statements that they will mail donated materials to China for free until the epidemic is over. When our country has difficulties, as a Chinese logistics crossborder company in the UK we will do everything in our power to help the country, STO Express said. French fashion giant LVMH Moet Hennessy, parent company of luxury brands including Fendi, Celine and Christian Dior, said in its statement on Monday they have donated  million yuan about . million to the Chinese Red Cross Foundation to help alleviate the urgent shortage of medical supplies in Wuhan. The statement added the company is dedicated to acquire and provide critical medical supplies throughout France and Europe. We hope to work together to fight and defeat this new coronavirus. France was the first European country to report imported cases of the new coronavirus and currently has four confirmed cases in total. Gucci, Saint Lauren and Balenciaga owner Kering has made donations of . million yuan about . million to the Red Cross Society of China Hubei branch. The aid, the international luxury group said on Chinas social media platform Weibo on Tuesday, will be used for prevention and treatment of the virus in the epidemic area, including humanitarian assistance and life care for medical staff and patients, as well as training and promotion of public health knowledge and management.