Europe struggles with sharp rise in COVID infections despite vaccines
2021-11-06 11:19
People wearing face masks walk on a street in London, Britain, on Oct , . PhotoXinhua    BRUSSELS  Europe is once again at the epicenter of the COVID pandemic after . million new cases and , new deaths have been registered in the region last week, the World Health Organization WHO has warned. The transmission rate across the  countries of the WHO European Region is of grave concern and Europe is now at another critical point of the resurgence of the pandemic, Hans Kluge, WHOs regional director for Europe, said Thursday. Amid the sharp increase in infections, some countries in the region are now taking new measures to slow the spread of the virus that causes COVID. Sharp increase During the past four weeks, the WHOs European Region has experienced a startling plus percent increase in new COVID cases, and it now accounts for  percent of all cases globally and  percent of all reported deaths. Several countries have seen daily infections reach record highs over the past few days. Germany on Friday recorded an alltime high of , new infections within one day. The countrys sevenday COVID incidence rate rose to . cases per , inhabitants from . cases on the previous day and . cases one week ago. We are now noticing that this fourth wave is coming with full force, that it has clearly picked up speed with record infection figures for Germany in the last  months, Germanys Health Minister Jens Spahn said after a conference with the federal state health ministers. In neighboring France, the national public health agency reported , new cases and  deaths in a hour span, while , patients are currently hospitalized, including  new admissions. Poland has recorded , new cases and  deaths over the past  hours to Friday morning. And in Romania, the number of COVID related deaths reached , on Friday, putting the eastern European country with a population of about  million among the hardesthit nations. The Netherlands recorded more than , new infections in one day, the first time since July , official data showed Thursday. Insufficient vaccinations The unprecedented increase in Europe, according to Kluge, is mainly due to insufficient vaccination rates and the relaxation of preventive public health and social measures. On average, only  percent of people in the European Region have completed a full vaccination series. While eight countries have now exceeded  percent coverage, in two the rate remains below ten percent, he said. To contain the spread of the virus, current vaccination rates are not sufficient even among those European Union EU countries which have achieved high rates of vaccination for both their adult population and older teenagers, experts suggest. Seventy percent is nowhere near enough. We need to get rates up to more than  percent, Martin McKee, professor of European public health at the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine LSHTM, told Xinhua. We need a vaccine plus strategy, which combines high rates of vaccination with continued mitigation measures, in particular improved ventilation and face masks, he said. Finland, for example, is half a percentage point away from reaching its target of  percent vaccination coverage among those over . But the countrys minister for family affairs and social services Krista Kiuru said Friday that Finland was among the countries where the epidemic is not in control, noting that percent coverage is not sufficient to keep society open. It would be desirable to reach up to  percent or more in vaccine coverage. We want vaccination coverage to be constantly increased, Finnish Prime minister Sanna Marin told national broadcaster Yle. New measures As Europe is struggling with rising infections, some countries have announced or are considering new restrictive measures to try to curb the surge. In Croatia, which reported the highest daily tally of , on Friday, the government announced several new measures, effective on Nov. . Interior Minister Davor Bozinovic said these will include the ban to hold public events and gatherings attended by more than  people, unless it is attended by people with EU digital COVID certificates. At all public events, wearing a medical mask would be mandatory. Moreover, COVID certificates would be applied to all civil servants and employees, as well as companies founded by the state or local government, as a condition of performing duties, the minister said. Starting Saturday, wearing a face mask will be mandatory again in public indoor places in the Netherlands. The requirement of a corona pass that has been mandatory for access to restaurants, cafes, theaters and stadiums, will also be extended to museums, zoos, amusement parks, gyms, swimming pools, terraces and sports events outside and indoors. In neighboring Belgium, where an average of , people were infected with COVID daily between Oct.  and Nov. , Health Minister Frank Vandenbroucke said Friday that it was urgent to take measures to slow the spread of the virus.