Europe new epicenter of pandemic, WHO says
2020-03-16 04:00
A man reading the newspaper is seen in Venice on Sunday with an unprecedented lockdown across of all Italy imposed to slow the outbreak of coronavirus, in Venice, Italy, March , . PhotoAgencies    Countries around the world strengthened their prevention and control efforts over the weekend as the novel coronavirus continued its global spread, especially in Europe, the new epicenter of the outbreak. The World Health Organization said on Friday that Europe has become the epicenter of the COVID pandemic, as more cases are being reported on the continent every day than were reported in China at the height of its epidemic. Following Italy, Spain on Saturday announced a neartotal nationwide lockdown, that starting on Monday bans people from leaving home except to go to work, get medical care or buy food. Prime Minister Pedro Sanchez announced the restrictions on movement following a huge spike in the number of infections in the nation of  million people. They are among the measures introduced as part of a day state of emergency declared by the Spanish government. All stores except pharmacies and supermarkets will close nationwide, and police would ensure the restrictions on peoples movements are obeyed, according to the restrictions. The number of confirmed cases in Spain has spiraled to over ,, with an increase of around , in just  hours, according to the Ministry of Health, Consumer Affairs and Social Welfare. The disease has so far claimed  lives in the country. Shortly after the announcement, Sanchezs wife Begona Gomez tested positive for the coronavirus. The couple are following the instructions of medical authorities at their residence, the government said. France drastically stepped up its measures against the spread of the coronavirus on Saturday, ordering the closure of all cafes, restaurants and cinemas. I have decided on the closure until further notice from midnight of places that receive the public that are nonessential to the life of the country, Prime Minister Edouard Philippe said. Shops would also have to close with the exception of essential services like supermarkets and pharmacies, and public transport would continue to run. But Philippe urged the people to limit their movements and avoid intercity travel. The public health authority said  people had died in France and almost , were now infected. Meanwhile, France pressed ahead with plans for nationwide municipal elections on Sunday, but ordered special measures to keep people at a safe distance and to sanitize surfaces.