ETown Financing Guarantee helps NCP prevention, control
2020-02-12 17:39
Beijing ETown International Financing Guarantee Co ?also known as ETown Financing Guarantee ?is supporting the development of companies based in the Beijing EconomicTechnological Development Area that are engaged in the novel coronavirus pneumonia prevention and control, according to BDA officials.Beijing Yuehua International Trade CoBeijing Yuehua International Trade Co is a professional medical equipment manufacturing and sales company. ETown Financing Guarantee has provided financing guarantee amounting to  million yuan . million for the company.Since the outbreak of NCP, Beijing Yuehua International Trade Co?recalled its employees to speed up medical equipment production. It has provided more than  medical devices such as monitors, ventilators, mobile filming machines, with a total value of about  million yuan, to designated hospitals for NCP treatment across the country.Also, the company arranged staff members to go to ?designated hospitals to complete the delivery, installation, commissioning and other tasks as quickly as possible, and make every effort to contribute to the epidemic prevention and control.Beijing Xingshunda Passenger Transport Co?Beijing Xingshunda Passenger Transport Co provides transportation services for residents in the southern part of Beijing. It provides services for more than tens of thousands of passengers daily.ETown Financing Guarantee?has been providing the company with financing guarantees?amounting more than more than  million yuan.After the outbreak of the epidemic, the company made an emergency response plan and arranged  fleets and nearly  frontline crew members,?to ensure the operation of  bus lines during the Spring Festival period.Each operating vehicle is disinfected more than three times a day. The crew members record and report the passengers?with a fever?in a timely manner, to fully ensure the safety of the passengers.Beijing GenomePrecision Technology Co?Beijing GenomePrecision Technology Co?is a national hightech enterprise mainly engaged in the R  D, production and the sales of molecular diagnostic products. It has developed HN virus, SFTV virus and BK virus detection kits and obtained relevant certificates from the National Medical Products Administration.Town Financing Guarantee?provided guarantee support for the companys first loan, helping it to accumulate credit and accelerate?its?development. ?In an effort to help with?NCP prevention and control, GenomePrecision and the Institute of Life Sciences of the Academy of Military Medical Sciences have jointly developed the firstgeneration Novel?Coronavirus Pneumonia Nucleic Acid Detection Kit Fluorescence PCR Method. They are now organizing the production of raw materials and preparing for clinical sample verifications.?The company is currently engaged in developing the secondgeneration of New Coronavirus Nucleic Acid Detection Kit Onestep fluorescence PCR. The kit is fast, easy?and ready?to?use and safe. It is expected to be completed by the middle of this month.