Era of driverless vehicles on the way to reality
2021-10-01 07:09
Unmanned vehicles deliver supplies to residents in a quarantined area in Liwan district in Guangzhou, Guangdong province, during the latest COVID outbreak in June.?SONG JINYUFOR CHINA DAILY    On the campus of Harbin Engineering University in Northeast Chinas Heilongjiang province, a deliveryman wound its way steadily among teachers and students. Upon arriving at a dormitory building, the deliveryman called  students who ordered the food at the same time to pick up their takeout orders. Students were astounded to find that the deliveryman was a yellow unmanned delivery vehicle that stopped right in front of them. With no driver, steering wheel, accelerator or brake pedal, the artificial intelligenceenabled vehicle said Happy Meal and then left for the next station. The unmanned vehicle was the first batch of intelligent vehicles launched by the university to help with deliveries. Due to the COVID epidemic, most Chinese universities have taken semienclosed epidemicprevention measures. This meant visitors, including food deliverymen, cannot get into the campus without strict registration and verification procedures. Since the new semester began in the fall, a large group of universities in Beijing, Shanghai as well as provinces like Shandong, Zhejiang and Jiangsu launched unmanned delivery vehicles, including food delivery vehicles, express vehicles, and minibuses, to help with deliveries amidst the epidemic. Behind this is the broad momentum of large commercialization of unmanned deliveries in the country, where Chinese companies rev up autonomous driving commercialization, after recent increases in driverless applications. To avoid the risk of crowd gathering, we have opened  canteen stalls to offer takeaway services of over , kinds of food for students. It is hard to believe, but the truth is that our unmanned delivery vehicles can take , to , orders on average each day, said Li Bo, deputy head of rear services at Harbin Engineering University. Li said an unmanned delivery vehicle can help with  orders per ride and is able to make  delivery calls in  seconds, the delivery efficiency of which is  times higher than that of a manpower delivery. Aside from the campus scenario, unmanned delivery is speeding up commercialization in a variety of deliveries for districts, factories and industrial parks thanks to the increasingly mature driverless technologies. In Wenzhou, Zhejiang province, unmanned deliveries are no longer limited to vehicles as unmanned aerial drones of SF Express are transporting boxes of bayberries from a mountaintop to a delivery station located far below. For local farmers, the delivery of bayberries has always been a problem, as the fruits bruise easily during overland transport. While it previously took over two hours to deliver the fruit, it now takes only eight minutes using aerial drones, according to SF Express. While players such as United Statesbased Waymo are halting their pilots during the pandemic, over  companies are deploying autonomous delivery solutions in China, said Bill Russo, founder of Shanghaibased consultancy Automobility. A more dynamic system built upon autonomous and robotics technologies will allow economies and businesses to adapt to the rapidly transforming world and the new challenges it brings, such as more flexible and less centralized manufacturing, Russo said. Compared with manpower, unmanned deliveries avoid human contact and potential infection risks. Selfdriving vehicles can also work continuously in all weather conditions to respond to urgent needs, said Zhong Hua, senior vicepresident of engineering at WeRide. WeRide is the first batch of autonomous firms entering the quarantined area of Guangzhou, Guangdong province, to help delivery of urgently needed medical materials during the latest COVID outbreak in the city earlier this year. More than  unmanned vehicles, including passenger cars, small logistics vehicles and heavy trucks, as well as  logistics vehicles, had delivered a total of  metric tons of necessities in June in the recent outbreak in Guangzhou, according to Gao Yuyue, deputy secretarygeneral of Guangzhou municipal government. Unmanned deliveries have become effective supplements to ensuring supplies during the outbreak, and to some extent, are a major force in delivering necessities. They also help with diversified needs for food, milk powder, medicines and other urgently needed materials in the enclosed areas in a timely manner, Gao said. In fact, for some time now, domestic tech companies have been gearing up efforts in unmanned delivery services, which are expected to generate huge commercial value in a variety of businesses like express delivery, food takeaway orders, fresh produce ordering, and retail pharmaceuticals. A report by investment firm Estar Capital said sales revenue of the countrys terminal distribution market is expected to exceed  billion yuan  billion this year. Terminal distribution refers to logistics services that interact with endusers. In China, a sound unmanned distribution business model has been formed with technologies being able to support different needs. The overall industry is expected to eventually enjoy largescale commercial applications, the report said. For these unmanned vehicles, companies also rely on safety control centers to monitor selfdriving vehicles and road conditions in real time and give timely assistance and instructions to vehicles in need. In , China unveiled a blueprint to boost autonomous technologies in the country. According to the blueprint, the country will realize scale production of vehicles capable of conditional autonomous driving and commercialization of highlevel autonomous vehicles in certain scenarios by . Earlier this year, a highlevel autonomous driving demonstration zone in Beijing issued licenses for unmanned deliveries to companies like Meituan and JD. It marked the first time the country granted legal rights for operations by unmanned delivery vehicles. In July, Beijing also issued temporary selfdriving car plates to  vehicles from  companies including online food delivery giant Meituan, selfdriving firms Neolix, and ridehailing platform Didi, which marked a milestone for the commercialization of autonomous driving. The capital city also announced that a kilometer expressway between the citys fifth and sixth ring roads will be opened first to those vehicles. Six other expressway sections will be opened later to add another kilometer stretch to the citys highspeed testing roads for driverless vehicles. Official data showed that the city has  routes for testing selfdriving vehicles, totaling approximately . kilometers. Wu Gansha, CEO of Chinese selfdriving startup Uisee, believes the sector is now ready for takeoff. Investors are more confident about the commercialization of intelligent driving and hence willing to invest. From this year, we could start seeing largescale commercialization of driverless vehicles, Wu said. Weve been seeing a healthy pickup in orders. He Xiongsong, executive president of Estar Capital, pointed out that it will take time for the countrys unmanned delivery industry chain to grow and reduce costs. Autonomous driving is in the process of rapid development. One of the main barriers is that the cost of core components such as lidar are relatively high, He said. At present, some companies can achieve a total vehicle cost of about , to , yuan, but others have to pay over , yuan for a single car. chengyuchinadaily.com.cn ? ? ? ? ? ?