Equipment maker DHHI to increase global market share via sustained innovation efforts
2020-09-11 09:21
A DHHI employee left answers visitors queries about smart robots during a hightech exhibition in Dalian, Liaoning province. LIU DEBINFOR CHINA DAILY    With China on its way to build a group of worldclass, benchmark, Stateowned enterprises that are leaders in highquality development, the countrys SOEs have been accelerating innovation to further compete with established rivals around the world. Dalian Huarui Heavy Industry Group Co Ltd DHHI recently rolled out the worlds first dualuse equipment that can unload cargo from both opentop containers and open wagons. The dualuse unloader was independently developed by Dalian Huarui, a locally administrated Shenzhenlisted SOE. Wang Jinfu, deputy chief designer of DHHI, said the company was the first in the world to master such a maneuver. It has very broad market prospects as it can achieve a low cost transformation of the traditional convertible wagon market in a short period with good operational efficiency and equipment reliability, Wang said. During the research and development process, DHHI solved  design and technological problems, applied for  patents and so far has obtained four authorizations, Wang added. The feasible technical scheme has been widely recognized by authoritative institutions and important customers such as China Railway Rolling Stock Corp, China International Marine Containers Group and CRRC Qingdao Sifang Vehicle Research Institute Co Ltd. Relying on its patented technological advantages and customer confidence, the company signed the worlds first dualuse unloader supply contract for opentop containers and open wagons last year. Cong Hong, president of DHHI, said the dualuse unloader is gradually becoming a new performance growth point for the company. Recently, DHHI successively signed supply contracts for dualuse unloaders with customers from Hebei province and the Xinjiang Uygur autonomous region, and a number of customers have expressed their intention to cooperate in the technical renovation of existing equipment, Cong said. DHHI will continuously consolidate the advantages of its traditional products and accelerate the RD of intelligent, environmentally friendly, energysaving new technologies and products, Cong added. According to the companys semiannual financial report released on Aug , DHHIs main operating indicators, such as operating revenue, new orders and payment recovery, all increased yearonyear as it closely focused on two main tasksepidemic prevention and control as well as production and operations in the first half. The companys firsthalf operating revenue increased by . percent yearonyear and total profit was . million yuan . million. To maintain solid economic fundamentals, the central government has reiterated that policy measures and fiscal funds should be used to ensure the focus remains on the six priorities of employment, peoples livelihoods, development of market entities, food and energy security, stable operation of industrial and supply chains and the smooth functioning of society to ensure stability in the six areas of employment, finance, foreign trade, foreign investment, domestic investment and market expectations. China National Nuclear Corp, a centrally administrated SOE, also announced that it started to load fuel last week at Chinas first nuclear plant with a domesticallydeveloped reactor using Hualong One technology, a selfdeveloped thirdgeneration reactor design, bringing the unit one step closer to operation. Loading began at the No  nuclear power unit in Fuqing, Fujian province, said Beijingbased CNNC. Hualong One reactors were jointly designed by two nuclear power giantsChina General Nuclear Power Group and CNNCand passed inspections by a national panel in August . The nuclear power unit, which began construction in , is expected to start operations this year. The No  to No  nuclear power units of CNNCs Fuqing project entered commercial operations in September , and have generated a total of  billion kilowatthours of electricity to date. Compared with power generation using fossil fuels, the four nuclear power units have cut carbon dioxide emissions by . million metric tons, CNNC said. Eager to boost their earnings, both Stateowned enterprises and private companies have significantly deployed capital and manpower into RD to seize more market share both at home and abroad, said Ning Gaoning, chairman of Sinochem Group Co Ltd, a Beijingbased central SOE. To better optimize the countrys Stateowned assets and build worldclass SOEs that lead in highquality development, Ning, who is also chairman of China National Chemical Corp ChemChinaanother Stateowned companysaid the merger of Sinochem and ChemChina is in progress, and many internal studies and procedures are being undertaken. It is necessary and vital to complete this merger, he said.We will actively promote this matter and continue to focus on developing advanced technologies and service solutions to enhance the countrys competitiveness. Through mergers, acquisitions and restructuring, Stateowned capital should gravitate more toward emerging industries and advanced manufacturing, as well as other sectors that have a bearing on peoples wellbeing and national security, Ning said. In the past, the government paid more attention to the scale of SOE revenues, but in the next stage, more attention will be placed on SOE returns in areas such as net assets, margins, investment into RD and added value so that SOEs will not only be leaders in terms of revenue scale, but stand out for development quality and efficiency, said Weng Jieming, vicechairman of the Stateowned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission.