Eprescriptions set new medical eras pulse racing
2020-06-08 07:08
A doctor gives advice to a patient through an online platform at Peking Union Medical College Hospital in Beijing on May . PhotoXinhua    Amid COVID, online healthcare services acquire dimensions of sunrise industry Influenced by the novel coronavirus pneumonia, Chinas internetbased healthcare services will likely serve over  million users this year with a penetration rate of nearly  percent, and pull in sales revenue in excess of  billion yuan . billion, said a recent industry report. The figure of  million users is a postCOVID update to the previous estimate of  million by Shanghaibased big data institute MobTech. In the past, Chinese patients used to have little trust in internet healthcare. The COVID epidemic has brought many patients who would normally prefer physical hospitals to online medical platforms. By consulting with a doctor online, they had a betterthanexpected user experience, which turned out to be excellent market education for online hospitals, bringing great growth potential to the sector, said the report. At a news conference late last month, Lei Haichao, Party secretary of the Beijing Health Commission, said  hospitals in the national capital alone have jumped on the online services bandwagon. According to Lei, by May , some  medical institutions in Beijing had provided technical assistance via the internet to nearly  medical groups in other regions, including Hebei and Shandong provinces and the Inner Mongolia autonomous region. Liao Jieyuan, founder of WeDoctor Primary Care, told media that his was the first hospital in Beijing to receive license in  for online medical diagnosis and treatment. Patients from across the country now receive services from WeDoctors renowned medical experts and specialists in Beijing. Chen Qiaoshan, a medical analyst at Beijingbased market consultancy Analysys, said that the online doctorpatient relationship based on trust is fundamental to the development of internet healthcare. During the COVID combat, as most of the potential and confirmed cases flocked to physical hospitals, those who planned to see a doctor tried doing it online. As the novel coronavirus outbreak intensified in China in late January, Chinese internetbased medical service providers witnessed rapid traffic growth. Data from app tracker Analysys Qianfan showed that during the Lunar New Year holiday Jan  to Feb , daily active users for single online medical consultation apps peaked at . million, increasing by . million, or . percent, on a yearly basis. The uptrend continued in February. From Feb  to , daily active users on major online medical consultation platforms increased by ,, or . percent. Chen said most of the internet medical companies are now capable of meeting the current requirements by making full use of their unique advantages in rapid response to online consultation, remote isolation and diversion before consultation. Currently, many physical public hospitals are joining hands with internet hospitals by offering official endorsement of online consultation to internet hospitals. This furthermore enhanced consumer trust in online healthcare, she said. Beijing Changfeng Hospital is one of the healthcare institutions authorized to offer online services covered by the national medical insurance. It has cooperated with Dingdang Medicine Express, a popular app, to offer rapid homedelivery of medicines for patients. Dingdang uses more than  smart pharmacies across the national capital and its logistics network to deliver medicines bought online to consumers doorsteps in less than halfhour.