Epidemic pushes online healthcare over tipping point
2020-06-08 10:15
A doctor with the Childrens Hospital of Fudan University displays a prescription for online patients in Shanghai on May . PhotoXinhua    In midFebruary, when the novel coronavirus was ravaging Wuhan, capital of Hubei province and the first epicenter of the COVID epidemic, Wu Hong, a yearold city resident, was getting bogged down with several worries. More than the epidemic itself, her family members dire need for drug refills was causing immense concern. Wus motherinlaw is a breastcancer patient and needs regular medicine. Wus father suffers from chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, and inhalers have been in short supply. As the epidemic grew more serious, Wu was not permitted to take her family to the hospital for drug refills. She found herself in a state of restless anxiety. On Feb , the Wuhan Healthcare Security Administration issued a series of measures to ensure epidemic prevention and control and routine primary care. According to the measures, eligible internetbased medical services were included in the medical insurance system. On March , the National Healthcare Security Administration and the National Health Commission jointly launched a guidance on promoting the inclusion of internetbased medical services into public health insurance, giving the green light to online medical insurance. Wus anxiety was finally relieved. With the new policy, her family could consult with a doctor online, get a prescription for the drugs, have the drugs delivered directly home and get the medical reimbursement. Xie Fangmin, CEO of Jianke, Chinas leading businesstoconsumer pharmaceutical ecommerce platform, said the new policy is especially beneficial to chronic disease patients and those who need a followup consultation. In the past, patients were encouraged to refill their drugs at community hospitals, and the fees were covered by medical insurance. However, problems including long waits and limited onetime medicine supply still bothered the patients, especially the elderly who have some trouble with walking, he said. When online healthcare was included in the medical insurance system, patients started receiving medicines at home. Once online followup consultations were covered by insurance, their need for more convenient healthcare services was finally solved, further promoting the development of the online healthcare sector, Xie said. Data from app tracker Analysys Qianfan showed that in March, the monthly active users of the drug ecommerce sector surged by . percent on a monthly basis to . million. The figure for the same period last year was . million, making it an .percent yearonyear growth in March. Currently, a batch of regions, including Tianjin, Shanghai, Zhejiang, Jiangsu, Sichuan and Guangdong, have already introduced, or are in the process of introducing, online medical reimbursements. On Aug , , the NHSA issued a guideline to improve policies regarding internetbased medical service fees and reimbursement of medical expenses, and many regions, such as Guangdong, Sichuan and Tianjin, have been taking steps since then. Zhang Xiaoxu, a research fellow at VCBeat, an online healthcare website, said that for regions that have introduced online medical reimbursements, a closed loop is formed, from online consultation to drugs, further boosting the development of the sector. In terms of the safety of drugs offered by internetbased companies, Xie from Jianke said that currently, the companys online hospital attracts nearly , doctors from the countrys Agrade hospitals, that offer professional medication directions, to make sure patients get the right medicine and consume it in a proper way. In addition, to guarantee drug safety, every order submitted online will go through an artificial intelligenceenabled audit system. Pharmacists are also engaged in the checking process, offering a double safety for patients, according to Jianke. Speaking of the future trend of the sector, Xie noted that a comprehensive operation system should be established, to optimize the allocation of medical resources, so that more patients from the rural area are able to enjoy the highquality medical services from firsttier cities, such as Beijing and Shanghai, through the internet. More doctors are expected to join the online healthcare system, attracting more patients, gaining their trust and further boosting the development of the sector, he said.