We will always be with the people in Wuhan
2020-02-12 09:15
China Daily reporters from left Meng Zhe, Zhu Xingxin, Wang Xiaodong, Wu Yong, Wang Xiaoying, and Su Feng thumbed up for a photo at the Leishenshan, or Thunder God Mountain, Hospital in Wuhan, Hubei province. Photo provided to China Daily    As more doubts spread over the internet, and various photos and talks make it hard?to?distinguish real or?fake viral information on WeChat, I decided to visit the hospitals and find out what was really going on. On Jan , I arrived at the fever clinic of Zhongnan Hospital of Wuhan University  without any protective wear, misguided by the information of no sustained humantohuman transmission. Two young nurses were talking and laughing as they set up a desk for measuring temperature at the gate. Entering the fever clinic, I saw  some patients  all wearing facial masks. Although the crowd was larger than usual, they all waited in line quietly. However, the medical workers were fully armed wearing protective clothing and masks. There were also two policemen stood in the clinic room. I could feel something different under the calm surface. When I went back, I wrote a story about the prevention and control of the epidemic being upgraded in Wuhan with a picture of the medical staff. In the evening of Jan , three days before the Chinese Spring Festival, all kinds of news and gossip had widely spread, occupying peoples minds. Sitting at home and seeing my cellphone bombarded by the messages, I had a hunch that the control measures would be further upgraded. At  am, the city announced a lockdown. At  in the morning, I walked out onto the street. I walked through the major intersection, which was always busy with cars and pedestrians waiting to go across, and walked on the popular Happy Avenue that leads to the highspeed rail station. The bustling metropolitan became unbelievably quiet, and seemed like an empty city. I tried to calm down and visited two neighborhood supermarkets, a large one, a peddlers market and a pharmacy. The lockdown did spur panic buying, with food and vegetables selling out at the stores. Masks were still out of stock, even cold medications and vitamin C. Then, I went home, turned on my computer, and welcomed a special Spring Festival  working against the clock, covering stories about the fight against the novel coronavirus pneumonia outbreak. The citys epidemic command center issued five announcements on that day and three on the next day, including the lockdown of the city, guaranteeing material supplies, channels to accept donations, suspension of taxi and online carhailing services, as well as plans to build an emergency field hospital like Xiaotangshan Hospital in Beijing, which was constructed in  within just seven days to treat SARS patients. On the night of Jan , the eve of the Chinese Spring Festival when families reunite, the construction of a makeshift hospital later named Huoshenshan, or Fire God Mountain started  with tens of millions of people around the country watching the construction through a livestreaming broadcast. Also on that night, people were moved by the photos and videos of medical staff of the Peoples Liberation Army headed to support Wuhan. It is the army that is always bound to appear at critical moments and the army that people trust in. On the night of Jan , I came back late. When I sent materials to an online working group, it was nearly  am the next day. But my colleagues responded immediately. The working group had never rested since we started the special report on the NCP epidemic  collecting information, selecting topics, submitting and revising manuscripts. Whether it was colleagues at the headquarters in Beijing and other bureaus, or the two groups of frontline reporters sent to Wuhan, they seemed to always be online. On Feb , we were asked to start collecting information on people who are in need of hospital treatment in Hubei province, including confirmed patients, highly suspected cases, and patients with fever from unidentified reasons. Within one day, I answered nearly  calls and heard different stories from a daughter in other provinces who worried about her infected parents, a young man who shoulders the responsibility to take care of his infected parents and younger brother, and many other people. Hearing people telling me what they were experiencing in different voices and tones, I felt the pain of our city. As one video goes, My city is sick. Wuhan, were waiting for you to get better! After I sent the list to the relative department, a patient told me she was finally hospitalized. I also cried hearing that news. In the fight against the epidemic, we the journalists are trying to do more for people. We will always be with the people. The author is director of China Daily Hubei Bureau. Translated by Zhang Xiaomin in Dalian