Enjoying golf and avoiding the epidemic
2020-02-27 17:43
An aerial view of the Sheshan Golf Club at the Shanghai Sheshan National Tourist Resort PhotoWeChat account sheshanlvyoutopnewsThe Sheshan Golf Club, considered one of the best golf courses in China, reopened to the public on Feb .In response to the epidemic and in order to ensure the health and safety of all members and guests, the housekeeping department will disinfect the club and public areas daily in accordance with national disinfection standards.The club also has the following instructions for all visitorsUpon arrival, cooperate with staff as they take your temperature. If your temperature is . C or above, please do not enter Sheshan Golfs premises.Masks must be worn when entering the course driving range and club. If you are not wearing a mask, please do not enter Sheshan Golfs premises in order to prevent cross infection.When booking, please provide the full names and cellphone numbers of all golfers. Please have your ID with you while golfing to facilitate checks. Members and guests who have been in quarantine for less than  days after returning to Shanghai will not be able enter the club.If you or your guests have recently been in Hubei or affected areas, or have symptoms such as flu, fever, or cough, please monitor your health for  days before coming to the club. Please scan the QR code and show the result on your mobile phone to the guard at the clubs entrance.In order to prevent cross infection, the clubhouse restaurant, pro shop, and locker rooms will be closed. The restaurant, private dining rooms, cigar bar, and midcourse kiosks are temporarily closed as well, although the restaurant will provide temporary packaged food and drink services for the club.Due to the day isolation requirement upon arrival in Shanghai, we have a limited number of caddies available. Therefore, we have temporarily stopped our caddie selection service and hole play.Due to the limited number of caddies, please make a reservation in advance so the club can make caddie arrangements for you. Reservations for  or person groups will be grouped with others for caddy rides. Thank you for your understanding.Pro Shop reception services will be moved to the starter desk. Payment via Alipay or WeChat is highly encouraged.The luggage pickup point will be shifted to the carpark. Please try to reduce the number of carryon items. Our caddie will send guests to and from the parking lot and the starter desk.