Efforts for health of economy key to Chinas recovery
2021-08-11 09:50
Containers are loaded onto cargo ships berthed at Zhoushan port in Zhejiang province over the weekend. Photo by Yao FengFor China Daily    Targeted policies, support for SMEs help nation achieve growth amid headwinds Chinas economic data for the first half of this year came out strong in July. Figures from the National Bureau of Statistics in July show that the countrys valueadded industrial output rose . percent yearonyear in the first half, while consumption totaled . trillion in the same period. Meanwhile, the official purchasing managers index, a key indicator of the manufacturing sectors health, came in at . in July, all sending good signs the country is on a gradual yet strong track of recovery since it was hit by the COVID pandemic. Many economists at home and abroad see this as a tremendous achievement. Particularly cheerful are smaller, microsized businesses who were once the most vulnerable group during the outbreak, but have robustly recovered this year. Some of those were on lifelines when the pandemic was severe and business activities basically ground to a halt. Worldwide, government and academics have long been bickering about the policy response toward the pandemic. There has not been much of a conclusion yet. COVIDs economic impact is new to many, and policy turned out to be very different in countries in light of their actual conditions. Looking back, Chinas approach was reckoned as prudent, yet was proved to be targeted and effective. Even in the first quarter of last year, when the pandemics impact was most pronounced, the government did not resort to heavy stimulus measures. Instead, it acted by giving specific liquidity support to businesses and households in a wellcalibrated manner. This includes allowing loan deferrals for smaller businesses, targeted tax and fee exemptions and a new mechanism that helps to directly allocate newly added fiscal funds to primarylevel governments. Many policy tools used by major economies to battle against the pandemic are similar, that is, to inject liquidity into the market and keep businesses afloat. But the steps that China took supported businesses and made sure not to damage the health of the economy, said He Zhiguo, a finance professor at the University of Chicago Booth School of Business, who started to track Chinas policy and draw international comparisons since early . More support and jobs In May , He started to notice the uniqueness of Chinas policy response toward the hit. Before the pandemic, Hes research focus had been mainly on Chinas capital markets and its financial reforms. Served as the Fuji Bank and Heller Professor of Finance and Jeuck Faculty Fellow at Chicago Booth, He said he seldom paid very close and indepth attention to Chinas macro policy stance and relative evaluations. This time, it was the uniqueness of Chinas policy response that caught his attention. Coworking with Liu Bibo, a professor of finance at PBC School of Finance, Tsinghua University in Beijing, they published an article that gave an indepth analysis on Chinas policy response, entitled Dealing with a Liquidity Crisis Economic and Financial Policies in China during the Coronavirus Outbreak. In the essay, the two professors gave a detailed look at Chinas targeted policies, which mainly include extending loan terms and rearranged rollover debts for enterprises, tax and fee exemptions, and special loans for micro, small and mediumsized enterprises. He said that one thing that policymakers across countries were bickering over was whether society will soon recover from the pandemic, or if the COVID situation will remain in peoples lives for a very long time. This prognosis is important because it impacts the countrys employment and liquidity policies, that is, to keep payrolls stable with a minimum wage if the pandemic impact will be timelimited, or to cut payrolls for now and later hire workers back when the COVID situation ends. He and Liu noticed that China resorted to the first approach, with targeted liquidity channeled to specific businesses and sectors. The State Council, Chinas Cabinet, announced in March  a raft of policies supporting employment, particularly for vulnerable sectors, including more valueadded tax relief, providing lowcost lending to smaller businesses, and lowering or waiving employers contributions to oldage pensions, unemployment and workplace safety insurance schemes, exemptions for utility bills and rents and wage subsidies to help businesses keep payrolls stable. Robin Xing, chief China economist at Morgan Stanley, hailed the support for the countrys smaller business communities. While small and micro firms roughly account for  percent of Chinas GDP and  percent of employment, they continue to face structural constraints in obtaining financing, particularly during the heights of the pandemic when creditors tend to be more riskaverse. Targeted measures, especially those that directly address cash flow constraints for SMEs, can therefore be more impactful in sustaining growth momentum and stability in the labor market, he said. A more targeted approach can also limit risks of a rapid buildup in financial instability, compared to a scenario where policy easing is aggressive and indiscriminate, he noted.