Economic challenges call for cautious approach
2021-02-23 07:43
LI MINCHINA DAILY    Editors Note The Chinese economy faces many challenges despite achieving positive growth last year. How can China overcome these challenges and realize sustainable growth in the long run? Three experts share their views on the issue with China Daily. Excerpts follow Higherquality growth should be the focus The COVID pandemic dealt a heavy blow to the Chinese and global economies. Yet thanks to Chinas strict pandemic prevention and control measures and effective fiscal policy, the Chinese economy recovered from the sharp decline in the first quarter of  to achieve . percent GDP growth for the whole of last year, making China the only major economy to register positive growth. For China, achieving sustainable economic growth remains the main task in , and given the low base, the rate of Chinas economic growth this year will be significantly higher than in . However, despite the expected macroeconomic boom this year, at the micro level, many households may face a tough time, which the authorities should pay close attention to. This means China has to deal with multiple challenges at home and abroad. The novel coronavirus isnt likely to be contained globally in a short time, especially because mutating variants of the virus may undermine the efficacy of the vaccines. As a result, the epidemic may continue to impact global demand and, by extension, the Chinese and global economies. Also, if the pandemic is effectively contained across the world, global supply would recover affecting Chinas exports, as some major countries could accelerate production and exports, and more rigorously push their geopolitical agendas, creating new challenges for global trade and the world economy. Besides, the uneven recovery of the global economy could lead to further imbalance in supply and demand, creating more problems for the real economy and financial sector, and widening the profitability gap between Stateowned enterprises and private companies, and between companies of different scales. Another fear is that, in the face of the pandemic, more proactive fiscal and prudent monetary policy, intended to promote steady economic growth, could increase the nonfinancial sectors debt. Which the authorities need to be mindful of. First, the fact that local governments rising debts could result in more insolvency cases remains a major concern, so the authorities should strengthen supervision on debts. Also, China should take advantage of its fast economic recovery and positive GDP growth just as it did in the wake of global financial crisis. Second, the authorities should follow proactive fiscal and prudent monetary policy in the long run while being open to making necessary changes. Third, economic growth shouldnt be the only focus of SOEs and private companies instead they should try to achieve sustainable, higherquality development. And fourth, the government should ensure better coordination between fiscal policy and monetary policy, so as to provide the needed support for small and mediumsized businesses and boost the real economy. Yan Yan, chairman of China Chengxin International Credit Rating Co Ltd China must not lower guard against epidemic Despite the pandemicinduced global economic recession and the trade war triggered by the previous United States administration, the Chinese economy has performed better than expectation on multiple fronts including GDP growth, employment and inflation. In particular, China achieved two landmarks last yearit crossed the  trillion yuan . trillion GDP mark, accounting for about  percent of the world economy, and realized the goal of eradicating absolute poverty a decade ahead of the poverty alleviation goal of the United Nations  Agenda for Sustainable Development. But given the slow global economic recovery and the unpredictability of the virus, China should not let its guard down against potential risks, in order to achieve sustainable economic growth, especially because  marks the beginning of the th FiveYear Plan  and the new journey toward modernization. On the demand side, since domestic consumption has lagged behind production, China should promote new forms of, and higherquality consumption apart from boosting trade in bulk commodities. And on the supply side, the authorities should expedite the building of selfdependent supply chains and promote technological breakthroughs in key fields. In short, China should further deepen reform and openingup to achieve sustainable development. Wang Yiming, vicechairman of the China Center for International Economic Exchanges Rising risks despite positive growth Although the Chinese economy grew by . percent last year, there was a . percent shortfall in output because of the pandemic. This shortfall has had a huge impact on Chinas financial market thanks to the underpinning of fiscal policy and monetary policy, and a growing amount of capital chasing profits in the stock market, raising asset prices and creating bubbles in the housing sector. The pandemic has given rise to some new challenges. First, for example, China may be forced to give debt relief to overseas borrowers, as most developing countries have suffered huge economic losses due to the pandemic and may not be able to repay their debts on time. Second, Chinas banking sector is struggling because of the vast amount of nonperforming loans and assetsat the end of March, the debt default is expected to increase from  percent to between  percent and  percent. And third, rising defaults have made the domestic bond market volatile, especially since the fourth quarter of last year, due to a decline in both ability and willingness of the parties to repay their debt. So regulations should be strengthened to ensure debtors dont use the pandemic as an excuse to evade paying their debt. Zhang Anyuan, chief economist at China Securities The views dont necessarily reflect those of China Daily.