East China Fair turns to online to build on top trade platform
2020-07-14 17:15
Exhibitors who took part in more than  ECF sessions receive the rewards as ECFs honored exhibitors. Photo provided to chinadaily.com.cn    The East China Fair ECF, the largest regional trade fair annually held in China, launched its th session at the Shanghai World Expo Exhibition and Convention Center on July . In response to the ongoing COVID pandemic, this years event, held from July  and jointly sponsored by the Shanghai Commission of Commerce and other provincial and citylevel commercial bureaus in east China, innovatively collaborates with internets great strength and is expected to inject continuous impetus for the foreign enterprises in China and further boost their confidence in trade and investment. The fiveday event gathered government officials, heads of trading groups, representatives from business associations, ECFs coorganizers and partners including eBay and Google, exhibitors, purchasers and ecommerce platforms such as Pinduoduo and iBailian. Xu Kunlin, vicemayor of Shanghai, addressed the opening ceremony. He said that this year marks the first time for ECF to hold its exhibitions online, which will face a series of unprecedented challenges, and it is also a challenge to test the abilities of holding an exhibition during the epidemic. It is necessary to face the new challenges of international trade, making efforts to stabilize the basic foreign trade and foreign investment, and striving to hold a particularly wonderful online fair, so as to jointly write a new chapter in the history of the development of ECF, said Xu. The theme of  ECF will provide online products display, supply and demand matching, online search, online matchmaking, online contact signing and online customer service. This years fair provides hour online foreign trade platform services, with five professional subexhibitions clothing and garment accessories exhibition, home textile and fabric exhibition, household products exhibition, decoration and gifts exhibition, and modernlifestyletheme exhibition. In response to the current changing of international trade situation, this years fair also set up three new online platforms  export to domestic sales zone, epidemic prevention and control goods zone, and crossborder ecommerce zone, opening up markets at home and abroad for foreign trade enterprises. A total of , exhibitors have been approved by the online fair, , products have been uploaded to the official website, and , purchasers have completed online registration. Additionally, the fair also includes four trade business matchmaking sessions, where exhibitors and purchasers will make appointment for matchmaking, and onetoone video negotiation will be held during the exhibition. Eastbest  Lansheng Group Shanghai International Trade Promotion Co received the award as ECFs excellent organizer. Representatives of purchasers who participated in the fair more than nine times received the award as the best ECFs purchasers, and representatives of exhibitors who participated over  sessions received the rewards as ECFs honored exhibitors. East China Fair features traders from across the world and has the highest turnover. It is held annually in March in Shanghai. It is supported by the Ministry of Commerce and is coorganized by nine provinces and cities including Shanghai, Jiangsu, Zhejiang, Anhui, Fujian, Jiangxi, Shandong, Nanjing and Ningbo.