Drug firms bank on cuttingedge tech for longterm success in nation
2020-03-20 09:45
Employees pack medicines at a production facility in Meishan, Sichuan province, on Feb . Photo by Zhang ZhongpingFor China Daily    One important lesson domestic and foreign pharmaceutical firms in China learned from the nations fight with the COVID outbreak was that cuttingedge technologies and business models are the key to success, and they are still bullish about market prospects in the country, a recent survey said. New Yorkbased business advisory firm Deloitte collected and analyzed a total of  responses to a survey from Chinabased pharmaceutical and healthcare sector operators and investors. Nearly two fifths were wholly foreignowned enterprises, the other twofifths were domestic private enterprises, and the rest consisted of Stateowned enterprises and joint ventures. Some  percent of the pharmaceutical enterprises said that during the epidemic prevention and control period, the biggest challenge they encountered was that market and sales activities could not resume due to several restrictions. Engagements by healthcare providers HCPs, medical and drug presentation events as well as simple physical access to hospitals were nearly impossible. The HCPs were less interested in non crisisrelated activities. Andrew Yu, one of the surveys authors and consulting leader with Deloitte China Life Science and Health Care, said many drug firms quickly adjusted their strategies during the period because normal business activities were affected. To mitigate the shortterm impact on business, the highest priority for those surveyed was strengthening collaboration with local governments and hospitals. Soenke Zornig, vicepresident and head of Product Supply China of Bayer Pharmaceuticals, said to support China in the fight against the virus, ever since Chinese Lunar New Year, Bayer employeesspecifically those working at the pharmaceuticals production siteshave been closely working together with all respective partners to ensure the supply of our medicines. In early February, the companys subsidiary in Pakistan relocated and provided , pieces of Resochin or chloroquine phosphate, an antimalarial drug with broad antiviral qualities, to Guangdong province freeofcharge. Among the , pieces, the first batch was approved within  hours. Inventory accounting and logistics preparation were completed rapidly and the drug arrived in Guangdong as a medical reserve for epidemic prevention and control. On Feb , the National Health Commission issued the sixth edition of the epidemic treatment plan. Chloroquine was referred as a recommended treatment medicine for COVID. Stateowned enterprises also stepped up their efforts. Sinopharm, Chinas largest Stateowned healthcare company, beefed up efforts among its over , subsidiaries by taking advantage of various resources to address urgent issues in a short period of time. To actively offer assistance in epidemic prevention and control, the company relocated and integrated all resources within its system to guarantee medical supply circulation, drug research and development, drug production and medical treatments. Sinopharm said employees from its subsidiaries in the local medical systems, especially the , medical professionals in the six hospitals in Hubei, served people in the frontline throughout the outbreak. Adopting internetbased technologies proved to be the second most favored choice for pharmaceutical companies in China. Deloitte said  percent of respondents said implementing new technologies to sustain client services was a clear focus during this period. The survey demonstrated that despite the epidemic, pharmaceutical companies were basically optimistic about their business revenue this year and their market prospects. Up to  percent said sales would catch up later to meet the target they set in , while  percent indicated their sales should go up given rising medical demand. As long as we strengthen our confidence and work hard, it is completely possible to achieve the goals and tasks of this years production and operations. We will continue to make steady progress in the direction of highquality development. The epidemic wont change the trend of the company toward growth and expansion, said Sinopharm Chairman Liu Jingzhen.