Dozen new cases lowest tally in weeks
2021-02-03 09:06
Staff members disinfect the Shijiazhuang Railway Station West Square in Shijiazhuang, North Chinas Hebei province, Jan , . Local authorities have conducted disinfection work on key public areas such as Shijiazhuang Railway Station to prepare for the work resumption. PhotoXinhua    Four new confirmed infections in Jilin and eight in neighboring Heilongjiang The Chinese mainland recorded  new locally transmitted confirmed cases of COVID on Monday, the first day with less than  since Jan , according to data released by the National Health Commission on Tuesday. Hebei province, which has been severely hit by a cluster infection since the beginning of this year, recorded no new locally transmitted confirmed cases or asymptomatic carriers of COVID on Monday. About  percent of , large enterprises and over  percent of supermarkets and wholesale markets for agricultural products in Shijiazhuang, Hebeis provincial capital, had resumed operation by Tuesday, said Meng Xianghong, the citys vicemayor. All  cases recorded on Monday were in Northeast Chinaeight in Heilongjiang province and four in Jilin provincedata from the commission showed. Jilin has contained the spread of a regional outbreak of COVID clusters in the province, officials said on Tuesday. The province has seen a dramatic decline in newly detected infected cases of the virus since Jan , said Zhao Qinglong, an official with the provincial center for disease control and prevention. And all the cases were found among people under centralized quarantine. The four new cases in Jilin took the provincial total to  as of Monday,  of whom are in serious condition, the provincial health commission said. In neighboring Heilongjiang, samples collected from some frozen foods in a supermarket in Jiamusi during regular screening of frozen food in markets have tested positive for novel coronavirus, the citys epidemic prevention and control headquarters said. The supermarket hid the origin information of the infected frozen food, which was linked to a food company connected to recent cluster infections in Harbin, Heilongjiangs provincial capital. Samples of meat products from Heilongjiang Charoen Pokphand and cooked wheat products from Shandong Tanghe Food tested positive for the coronavirus, the headquarters said. Some of the products were sold between Jan  and . It arranged for the collection of samples from various people and the environment and has collected around , samples so far, with all results coming back negative. Part of Harbin was classified as a highrisk area from noon on Tuesday. As of Monday, there were  confirmed cases and  asymptomatic carriers in the province. Ninetyeight COVID patients had been discharged from hospital, Liu Yancheng, a provincial health commission official, said on Tuesday, adding that they had been transferred to a designated hospital for  days of medical observation before they can go home. After returning home, they will need to monitor their health conditions for  days and avoid outdoor activities, he added. As of Tuesday, there were  highrisk areas across the countryseven in Heilongjiang, one in Jilin, two in Hebei and one in Beijing. Han Junhong in Changchun contributed to this story.