Dont let the guard down this Labor Day
2021-04-23 08:06
Travelers line up at Air Chinas checkin counters for domestic flights at Beijing Capital International Airport. Photo provided to China Daily    The Ministry of Culture and Tourism recently issued a guiding document to ensure safety in Aclass tourism areas, just in time for the approaching Labor Day holiday. The document asked agencies managing some Aclass tourism spots to evaluate risks and adjust their policies to prevent the novel coronavirus epidemic from coming back, and prevent accidents. It mentioned some recent casualties because of safety issues at some tourist spots casting a negative impact on the tourism market. Tourism is a great social activity, giving individuals a break from their tight schedules to rest for a few days. For the country, it means more circulation of money, which is good for the economy. However, when so many people crowd together, it is important to take stronger measures to avoid stampedes and to prevent the virus from spreading again. The document focuses on Alevel tourism areas, but other tourist sites should also take heed and plug loopholes if any, so that tourists have a safe holiday. This years Labor Day holiday promises to be buzzing with activity. With so many people raring to take a break and the novel coronavirus largely under control in the country, the fiveday holiday is the perfect time for people to travel. Not surprisingly, many railway tickets have already sold out, those on popular routes within seconds of being made available. According to an analysis, the number of travelers during this Labor Day holiday might exceed  million, which is the highest since . With so many people traveling, ensuring their safety is going to be a gargantuan task. Those managing tourism areas must ensure there are no accidents while tourists are engaging in any kind of adventure sports. Also, the crowd density must be controlled to avoid risks of a stampede. Most important of all, people must not let the guard down, even if there are no domestic infections right now. They must continue to wear masks and sanitize themselves after touching things to maintain zero infection record. Beijing News