Domestic production underway, measures taken to help those affected by virus
2020-04-02 11:14
After a hiatus of more than a month, Geely Holding Groups facilities in China started to hum as usual on March , designing, developing and producing vehicles for consumers around the globe. Thanks to the concerted efforts of the Chinese people, the coronavirus outbreak has been basically put under control in China, but the Chinese conglomerates effort to deal with its fallout is far from over. Over , Chinese people have died of the coronavirus in China, most of them in Wuhan, capital of Hubei province and Chinas hardesthit city. Many families lost their loved ones to the epidemic and some others found themselves in financial difficulties. Geely has decided to donate the  million yuan ,. it has raised within the company to the Wuhan Charity Foundation, to help tide them over the difficult days. The epidemic has dealt a heavy blow to companies in many parts of the country, especially in Hubei province, and this is very likely to have a negative effect on college students who graduate this summer. To help them out, Geely has decided to roll out a number of measures to streamline the recruitment process. For example, it will hold online interviews for graduates at Wuhans universities, graduates who are from Hubei but studied in nonHubei universities, and sons and daughters of medical workers involved in the fight against the novel coronavirus outbreak. Such graduates also have a better chance of getting recruited by Geely, one of the most popular carmakers in the country. The company has not forgotten about graduating middle school classes who will take exams this summer for college. Hunan Geely Automobile College, financed by Geely, has extended an olive branch to them. Applicants who are from Hubei province or sons and daughters of medical workers will be eligible for a special scholarship if admitted, which is set up as a token of respect and thanks for what they had gone through during the epidemic. Besides the shortterm specific efforts, Geely has designated  million yuan to develop vehicles that are healthy and intelligent, according to the company. It said the move will enrich Geelys understanding of passenger safety and also represents a new direction for automobile research and development for ordinary consumers. The company will make full use of its global research and development system and resources, and work in cooperation with professional medical and scientific research institutions to set up special project teams to work on the research. Geely said cars capable of comprehensive virus protection not only require the capability to isolate harmful substances in the air, they also need to quickly and effectively purify cabin air for occupants.In late February, it started to produce air filters that meet the same standards as N face masks. The product, which is the first result of the project, is the first in China to be certified by the China Automotive Technology  Research Center. The company has design as well as research and development teams in Europe, the United States and China, and they will develop and study new ecofriendly sustainable materials with antibacterial and antiviral properties, which can be used within airconditioner systems and on frequently touched surfaces such as buttons and handles. An Conghui, president of Geely Holding Group, said epidemic prevention is a job that requires the longterm effort of the wider society. As the most common mode of transportation, vehicles are akin to peoples second home. Only by making healthier products can we meet consumer demand for better quality of life, said An. Based on the automotive industrys development direction built around electrified, connectivity, intelligence and shared mobility, auto companies should commit to developing products that help protect the health of drivers and passengers. This will become one of Geely Autos key longterm development objectives.