Domestic consumption spurs economic recover
2021-01-19 09:10
Tourists shop at a dutyfree shopping mall in Sanya, South Chinas Hainan province, on March , . PhotoXinhua    Domestic consumption continued to gather speed as the countrys steady recovery from the novel coronavirus epidemic lent further support to economic growth, officials and experts said on Monday. Consumer spending accounted for . percent of the countrys GDP in , . percentage points higher than the gross capital formation, or the outlays on additions to fixed assets, plus the net change in inventories, Ning Jizhe, head of the National Bureau of Statistics, told a news conference in Beijing. Ning said consumption in  was the highest in recent years, compared with the average . percent consumption rate seen between  and . Consumption is playing an increasingly important role in spurring economic growth quarter by quarter. With the effective control and prevention of the epidemic, the pentup consumer demand will gradually strengthen. According to the NBS, retail sales of consumer goods fell by . percent on a yearly basis in , while consumption upgrades spurred consumer goods sales in the fourth quarter. Total retail sales expanded by . percent in the fourth quarter, . percentage points faster than that in the third quarter. Retail sales of communication appliances, cosmetics and gold, silver and jewelry by enterprises above a designated size rose by  percent, . percent and . percent, respectively, during the fourth quarter, much higher than the levels seen in the third quarter. According to Ning, China has the right conditions to maintain a steady economic recovery in . There is still plenty of room for improvement. Though the final consumption contributed to about  percent of the GDP growth from  to , it is still lower than the  percent to  percent levels seen in developed economies. More efforts are needed to boost the purchasing power of consumers, improve consumption policies and the overall economic environment.