Doctor resolves family versus duty dilemma
2020-04-16 09:43
The novel coronavirus epidemic left Hong Kong doctor Hui Kimming in a quandaryshould he stay with his family in the city or continue attending to his patients in Shenzhen, Guangdong province? For the past seven years, the yearold has spent four hours a day on a roundtrip commute between Hong Kong and the University of Hong KongShenzhen Hospital in Shenzhen, where he runs the Department of Respiratory Medicine. In addition to his normal duties, Hui undertakes clinical work and teaches on both sides of the border. Despite his hectic schedule, Hui still tries to find time for his family. During the day, I belong to Shenzhen. At night, I belong to Hong Kong, he said, half in jest. The epidemic, which erupted in Wuhan, capital of Hubei province, in late December, put Huis daily commute between Hong Kong and Shenzhen on hold after Feb . That was the date the Hong Kong government decreed that everyone who had visited the mainland in the two weeks prior to entering Hong Kong would be subject to a mandatory quarantine period of  days. Hui had to choose between working from home in Hong Kong and staying in Shenzhen to help fight the epidemic with his colleagues. Remaining in Hong Kong would allow him to offer muchneeded care for his family amid the epidemic, while staying in Shenzhen would mean finding lodgings and coping with longer working hours. In addition, he would face a higher risk of becoming infected with the virus. After careful consideration, Hui chose to stay in Shenzhenat least until the Hong Kong quarantine requirement endsbecause his patients are his top priority. To date, the coronavirus has claimed more than , lives globally and infected nearly  million people worldwide. As one of four firsttier cities in China, Shenzhen has been hard hit by the pandemic. Across the border, Hong Kongs tally has also exceeded ,. Since Shenzhens first coronavirus patient was hospitalized in early January, the University of Hong KongShenzhen Hospital, located in the citys Nanshan district, has stepped up the fight against the epidemic. The hospitals outpatient unit that deals with coronavirus patients has admitted , patients since early January. To prevent any crossinfection, the unit has set aside several independent wards for patients with the virus. Hui returned to Shenzhen on Jan , the first day of the Year of the Rat, after spending Lunar New Years Eve with his family in Hong Kong. Carrying little luggage, he didnt intend to stay long in Shenzhenpossibly less than  days. However, he was forced to remain in the city after Hong Kong enforced the mandatory quarantine measure. Hui had to stay in a hotel near the hospital and foot the bill himself, while spending most of his time at work. Overseeing his department, he plays a key role in the efforts to beat the illness, which can cause severe respiratory problems. By early February, the hospital had admitted about  patients suspected of having the illness, who took up almost all the respiratory isolation observation wards in three sections. In addition to implementing the hospitals preventive measures against the disease, Hui monitors the patients health, sometimes working late into the night. There are about  other patients in the hospital with illnesses unrelated to the coronavirus, including seasonal influenza, asthma and lung cancer. There are  doctors in the department and they attend to more than  patients. Despite the heavy workload, Hui is coping well. He believes that his workload pales in comparison to that of frontline nurses, who spend long periods in close contact with potentially infected patients. Doctors are also human beings. They do feel tired and depressed at work and worry about the epidemic. Despite the pressure, they continue to do their job. I think this is professionalism, he said. The  doctors from Hong Kong who work at the hospital are staying in Shenzhen, accounting for about half of the hospitals medical staff members from across the border. Since February, the hospital has provided lodgings for the doctors. Despite the pressure, Hui is positive and confident the nation will ride it out, based on the experience acquired from dealing with the Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome epidemic in  and in light of the control measures in force. We managed to control the SARS epidemic. I believe, this time, we will also make it, he said. Zheng Wanying contributed to this story. ?