Differences melt as Chinese support arrives in Western capitals
2020-03-31 17:20
Despite our worlds political divisions, a time of crisis has let the collaborative spirit of humanity prevail. We have realized the value of global interdependence only when countries started to lock down in the face of the COVID pandemic. Fortunately, the spread of the disease is not simultaneous across the world. A tough situation in one nation is being mitigated by others, and when that nation defeats the contagion it stands up to reciprocate. Right after China was hit with the virus, factories were closed and workers remained stuck in their homes. Production took a huge dip, sending shockwaves through international markets. Subsequently, assistance started pouring in from all corners. Wealthy and developing nations alike played their part in augmenting Chinas efforts to overcome the outbreak. And then China rebounded. Its approach to containing COVID worked. Today, it has one of the slowest rates of new infections and the most extensive experience battling the virus. Its manufacturing industry is whirring into motion, resuming its role in providing medical supplies to the world. The new epicenter of the disease is Europe, as the number of deaths in Italy as well as Spain has surpassed those in China. With most major industries in Western countries now closed, they are in much greater need of external help. China is paying back the support it received during its period of difficulty. When the first batch of Chinese aid arrived in Italy, the Foreign Minister was emotional. While speaking via a live broadcast, he pointed to his laptop showing a group of Chinese getting off an airplane. They were medical professionals who had defeated the outbreak back in their country and set out to help others defeat theirs. Organized by Chinas National Health Commission and the Red Cross Society, the team joined the ranks of Italian doctors and nurses in their fight against the virus. Since then, two more teams of Chinese medical experts, epidemiologists, and Center for Disease Control and Prevention members have also reached Italy. In addition to human resources, Italy has received huge shipments of supplies. Tons of ICU and protective equipment, including ventilators, defibrillators, monitors, suits and respirator masks were shipped along with the specialists. This is what we call solidarity, the Italian Foreign Minister said. Another batch has been dispatched to France, where a fullfledged battle against COVID is raging. The Chinese ambassador in Paris spoke of the precious support and assistance France provided when the epidemic was at its peak in China. Now, he said, China was ready to provide aid as far as possible. Chinese expertise is aiding Frances Pasteur Institute as well, with plans to establish a joint SinoFrench research fund to develop drugs and vaccines. Elsewhere in the European Union, Chinese consignments have arrived in Germany, Spain and Belgium, and many more places. EU President Ursula von der Leyen shared her gratitude and tweeted that we need each others support in times of need. Likewise, Josep Borrell, the EUs high representative for foreign affairs, welcomed the help and asked for strengthening cooperation and multilateralism in facing this threat to mankind. Further west, a slow realization of the need to take a cue from the Chinese strategy in defeating COVID is taking hold in the United States. Despite American leaderships muchcriticized attitude toward China, researchers there are gaining from the Chinese experience. Institutionallevel engagement is in full swing through teleconferencing, and representatives from US states are in China to acquire ventilators. Chinese support to Europe and the recipients acknowledgments in good faith reinforce the idea collaboration between completely different political systems  and not the imposition of a singular approach  can alleviate our problems. A number of models exist that have proven to deliver results and effectively address transnational challenges. Each countrys system comes from its historical experiences, cultural peculiarities and social customs. Acceptance and appreciation of this fact will guarantee the progress of human thought and evolution of global governance for the better. In moments like these, distinct philosophies build upon each others strengths and serve humanity. This is a kind of interaction that has to continue even in times of stability. Rather than looking at others with doubt, governments should be looking for ways to carve out common ground in pursuit of a better future. If, instead of great power competition, preference is given to great power cooperation, we will be able to overcome all calamities. The author is a Pakistanbased commentator on international and commercial affairs. The opinions expressed here are those of the writer and do not represent the views of China Daily and China Daily website. ?