Demand for pet products and services climbs during outbreak
2020-02-21 07:32
A girl walks her dog in Beijing on Jan .?CAI DAIZHENGFOR CHINA DAILY    Owners purchase more as shutdowns keep furry family members indoors While the novel coronavirus outbreak stopped many businesses from resuming work, the extended Spring Festival holiday turned out to be a hectic time for suppliers of key necessities for pets. Villages where most of our food and sanitation stuff were stored or sourced were sealed off because of the novel coronavirus outbreak. Transportation which was key for product delivery in some areas was also halted. Once our customers became aware of this, they resorted to panic buying necessities ... for pets, said Lu Kun, general manager for ecommerce at wecarepet.com. The firm is a technology company focusing on petrelated information sharing, consulting, medical services and ecommerce since its establishment in . Not only us, many pet product stores on Taobao or JD received overwhelming orders for food and sanitation products. Our sanitation products already went out of stock a couple of days ago, Lu said. Consulting on pets health also increased on the companys WeChat subscription account, which has over , followers to date, Lu said. The surge came about just when many local governments urged a shutdown in pet care centers or veterinary hospitals to reportedly prevent the coronavirus from spreading further due to rumors that pets were exacerbating the spread of the disease. Normally we receive about  consulting requests from our WeChat followers on average per day. But during this extended Spring Festival holiday, we have been receiving  consulting requests on a daily basis. Among those, about  percent asked for oneonone consulting with veterinarians who charge from  yuan . to  yuan based on the question, Lu said. The company has recruited nearly  veterinarians to date, both parttime and fulltime and mainly Chinese, from around the world for consultations. We also received questions asking about pets masks, as many dog owners in less severely stricken areas still need to walk their dogs. But we havent started this product line, considering theres no such quality check on producers, no hygiene standards during production procedures, nor a way to prove the masks are effective in preventing infections, Lu explained. Pet masks remain hot words for searches on Taobao and JD. A pet mask seller named Saila on Taobao has sold over , masks for dogs during the recent month, with the mask priced at  yuan each. Another dog mask seller named Langsi on Taobao also sold , masks for dogs last month, with each mask priced between  to  yuan. Pet food, cat litters, dog masks, sanitary products, medical consulting services are ordinary products and services which have seen a surge in demand during the outbreak as people scrambled to care for their furry family members. Aside from those ordinary products, some novel services like training or indoor dog walking and preventing dogs from getting depressed have also seen a spike in demand. Juxiaomeng, an online coaching platform for pet owners, launched a oneonone coaching series on pet training which has been specially designed to deal with the epidemic period. We have specialized lessons to teach owners to walk their dogs indoors. They were welcomed in severely stricken areas. We also have lessons on how to prevent dogs from getting infected while walking them outdoors, said Wen Jianguo, the founder and CEO of Juxiaomeng. The firms oneonone coaching series was priced at , yuan, yuan on Taobao. Wen said the series, especially remote coaching through video chat, sold well during the outbreak. The companys free videos on pet training on social media accounts also saw a sharp increase in viewership. Take its Douyin account as an example. Total displays hit  million for the recent half month on Juxiaomeng, the companys Douyin account with over , followers. The number of displays is much higher than usual, since it was about  million times on average for a half month, according to Wen. Kong Jing, a consultant with the Chinese Pet Products Association, said there is a rocketing demand for pet care, necessity products, and prevention methods during the epidemic, as more owners are taking measures to prevent their pets from being infected, though so far there has been no evidence proving pets can be infected with the virus, as noted by the World Health Organization. Kong said though the booming demand is creating more opportunities for the business, regulators should pay due attention to the market and take measures to safeguard its stability.