Dalian reports no new virus cases since Feb
2020-02-25 19:59
People wear masks at Dalian International Airport in Dalian, Northeast Chinas Liaoning province on Jan , . PhotoSipa    Dalian in Northeast Chinas Liaoning province has taken strict management over people entering the city since Sunday, according to the citys epidemic prevention and control office. According to the new policy, people who come or return to Dalian from outside Liaoning province in China and those from neighboring countries should be under home quarantine or centralized isolation for  days from the date of arrival, and provide information including travel history, place of residence, health condition and contact information. After resuming production, China reported several confirmed COVID cases in office and factory clusters, said Zhao Zuowei, director of the Dalian Health Commission, on Monday. And reported cases in neighboring Japan and South Korea have steadily increased in recent days. Dalian is located on the southernmost tip of the Liaodong peninsula, and is surrounded by Bohai Bay and the Yellow Sea on three sides, facing the Republic of Korea, Democratic Peoples Republic of Korea, and Japan across the sea. But Zhao added migrant workers who have health certificates issued by their local health authorities and received pointtopoint transport service dont need to observe the day home isolation. Zhao said the situation for epidemic prevention and control is still severe and complicated, even though Liaoning province has adjusted the emergency response level of epidemic prevention and control from the top level to the third level. Dalian has reported no new cases since Feb . As of Monday, Dalian has reported  confirmed cases and  suspected cases of novel coronavirus pneumonia, including  cases that were discharged from the hospital. Released from isolation for medical observation are  of the  people who were in close contact with patients. So far, no foreigners in Dalian have been infected with NCP, said Li Baoguang, director of the citys foreign affairs office at the press conference on Monday. Dalian now has about , foreigninvested enterprises, and , permanent foreigners, including more than , overseas teachers and students staying in Dalian during winter vacation, Li added.