Daily life returning in rainhit Shanxi
2021-10-13 08:34
People disinfect a village for epidemic prevention after a flood in Jiexiu, Shanxi province, on Monday.Continuous rainfall made the Fenhe River, which is beside the village, flood, submerging houses and fields.?WEI LIANGCHINA NEWS SERVICE    Fifteen people have died and three are missing after heavy rain in Shanxi province, which witnessed its heaviest downpours ever recorded during the first week of October, provincial authorities said on Tuesday. From Oct  to , the average precipitation across the province reached  millimeters, with cities including Taiyuan, Yangquan, Lyuliang, Jinzhong and Linfen exceeding  mm. Certain areas in those cities saw more than  mm, with the largest amount reaching . mm in Daning county, Linfen,Wang Wenyi, deputy director of the Shanxi Meteorological Administration, said at a news conference held on Tuesday in Taiyuan, the provincial capital. Wang Qirui, director of the Shanxi Provincial Emergency Management Department, said rains have triggered disasters including landslides and flooding that have affected more than . million people in  counties and caused more than  billion yuan  million in economic losses. About , houses have collapsed and around , people have been relocated to safer places. The rain damaged about , hectares of grain crops. Thousands of people from a village near the Yellow River were also evacuated to make room for water diverted from the Fenhe River, a major tributary of the Yellow River,as the Fenhe River overflowed. The diverted water will ultimately flow into the Yellow River. Peoples basic needs are being guaranteed and daily production and order are being restored quickly, officials said at the news conference. Yan Goufeng was greeted by her pet dog when she returned home on Monday after staying outside her village for days after it was flooded during the National Day holiday. The yearold from Yanjiaying village in Shanxis Qingxu county was evacuated to safety along with over  fellow villagers on Oct . Somebody knocked on our door around  pm on Oct  and told us to evacuate. We were told that the Wuma River had breached and water was about to run into our houses, Yan told ThePaper.cn. I have never seen so much rainfall. Fiftysix of the  coal mines that were shut down amid heavy rains have resumed production, and the provinces coal supply will not be affected, said Wang Qirui, the emergency management director. Among the four mines yet to resume operations, three with an accumulated annual production capacity of . million metric tons still have safety risks caused by the rain, and one with an annual production capacity of . million tons will resume operation after transportation is restored. A major coal producer in China,Shanxi signed terms with  provinces and cities on Sept  to provide coal for them in the fourth quarter.