Cui China will  do our best to fight virus threat
2020-02-17 23:31
File photo?Chinese Ambassador to the US Cui Tiankai. Photo  China Daily    China is doing whatever it can to control the new coronavirus despite the high economic cost, Chinese Ambassador to the US Cui Tiankai said, reassuring the world of Chinas efforts to fight the outbreak. Peoples wellbeing, their health, their safety, their life are the most important thing for us. So well do our best to protect peoples wellbeing, in a sense, at whatever cost, Cui said Thursday in an interview with NPRs?Morning Edition. At the same time, people also need economic development and normal social life, so the Chinese government is trying its best to restore normal economic and social activity, said the envoy. Peoples daily necessities have to be provided. And some of the companies and factories have to resume their work after the Lunar New Year holidays and we are looking at when and how schools could be reopened, he said. Cui admitted that the measures taken come with a high economic cost, including shutting down some major cities, especially Wuhan, a city of  million residents, to protect more people. We are doing all this, of course, at a high cost. But we are doing this in the larger interests of the entire world. If we fail to stop the virus, it could spread to other countries. Then this would cause an international crisis, said Cui. So this is, I believe, a real example of oneforall, allforone situation. We are doing this for the world. And we appreciate that the world is helping us. When asked about the concerns for public unrest in China, Cui said?its only natural that some people would be panicking under the circumstances, but the government has always upheld openness and transparency as a basic principle. We believe openness and transparency will give people more confidence, will give them more awareness about the virus, what are the real risks and how to prevent them, he said. The openness and transparency is reflected in the daily update of the numbers of confirmed cases and deaths, which also will help dispel fake news, rumors or the socalled pseudoscience, he added. Acknowledging that the epidemic posing an unprecedented challenge to China, Cui noted that its also a big challenge to the entire international community, which calls for an unprecedented response. The World Health Organization WHO has already sent an advance team to China, and the organization is sponsoring other expert groups to help contain the virus, according to the envoy. The US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has recommended a list of experts to the WHO, and that is under consideration of the Chinese government and the WHO, he said. We welcome experts of all countries to come to help us, said Cui, adding that some American experts, including W. Ian Lipkin, an epidemiologist at Columbia University, have visited China on such a mission. Despite the trade tensions between the US and China, theres a clear need for the worlds top two economies to cooperate because it is a challenge to the entire international community, said Cui. We are so interconnected, so interdependent. This interdependence has worked in the interests of both countries. Both economies, both peoples have benefited a great deal from such growing economic ties, he explained. In the phone call between President Trump and President Xi, they agree that our two countries should really work closely together to combat this virus, he said. Since the outbreak, peopletopeople cooperation between the two countries remains very effective and very genuine, said the ambassador, adding that he was so impressed by the goodwill of the American people. We appreciate very much the support and assistance given to us by American people, American businesses, American nongovernmental institutions and many others, he said. Cui stressed that the phase one trade agreement is part of the achievement of efforts by both sides to develop a stronger and more stable relationship between China and the US. The two sides made genuine efforts to understand the other side, to respect the other sides legitimate needs and concerns, and try to address the issues with a balanced approach and with a good sense of equality. If these principles could be applied in our efforts to address other issues in other areas, we could be equally successful, he said.