Critical moment allows no dropping of guard China Daily editorial
2021-11-01 18:42
A medical worker takes a swab sample from a resident for nucleic acid testing in Heihe, Northeast Chinas Heilongjiang province, Oct , . PhotoXinhua    The National Health Commission on Monday that  new COVIDvirus infections had been reported on Sunday, including  imported cases. This latest wave of infections broke out after the National Day holiday, and is in the stage of fast expansion. New cases are still being reported, particularly in Heilongjiang, Gansu, Hebei and Yunnan provinces and the Inner Mongolia autonomous region. As of Sunday, the country had a total of  cases, among which  are severe cases. Although the number is quite small compared with many other hardhit countries, and the transmission chains are generally clear, there is still the risk of further spread of the virus as most of the infected people traveled across the country. Given that dozens of cities in at least  provinciallevel regions have witnessed new cases over the past two weeks after having not seen local cases for months, governments at various levels have enough reasons to remain on high alert. The virus will certainly stage an even fiercer comeback should vigilance slacken. After checking reappearances of the virus in various places since it was generally tamed nationwide, the country has developed a set of measures  early detection, early quarantine and early treatment  that have proved effective in checking the spread of the virus by cutting the transmission chains. But there is a danger that a warweary feeling may set in allowing the virus to take advantage of lax defenses. Instead of the virus being worn out after rampaging round the world for about two years, more infectious strains have emerged as it has gained more footholds around the world. So any outbreaks need to be pegged back as quickly as possible  before they run wild. As a developing country with such a huge population, having thousands of new cases as seen in other countries is not something the countrys health system could bear. The long lines of people at vaccination stations waiting to get their third jab and the cooperation of residents in communities that are put under closedloop management show that the public on the whole is willing to do its bit. But the epidemic prevention and control work is also a professional and technical task that requires diligence on the part of those tasked with carrying it out, especially with the colder weather being in the virus favor. It is also a test of the governance system and capacity. When the virus pops up again, scientific decisionmaking, efficient organization and strong leadership are all the more necessary to win time and the initiative for the fulfillment of the many prevention and control tasks. The pandemic has accelerated the modernization of the countrys governance system and capacity, and it continues to be an ongoing stress test as the virus is only too willing to exploit any weaknesses it may discover. So it is vital that everyone involved in the prevention and control efforts remains alert so that the latest resurgence of the virus can be controlled as soon as possible.