CPPCC keeps focus on satisfying peoples needs for a better life China Daily editorial
2020-05-27 19:49
The third session of the th National Committee of the Chinese Peoples Political Consultative Conference, Chinas top political advisory body, starts its closing meeting on May , . PhotoXinhua    The th Chinese Peoples Political Consultative Conference National Committee, the countrys top political advisory body, concluded its postponed and greatly shortened annual session on Wednesday. Usually, the CPPCC National Committees annual session lasts around  days, but this year, with impressive efficiency, the national political advisory body drastically condensed its agenda and completed its work in seven days. Despite the disruption caused by the COVID pandemic, and rigid socialdistancing rules, the vigorous CPPCC discourse has maintained its focus on vital issues of most concerns to the people. But judging from what has been heard from their meetings, the representatives have been as dedicated as usual in fulfilling their advisory roles. They have called for reinforcing the countrys epidemic early warning and response mechanisms reiterated the pressing need to cope with the potential negative impacts of the disrupted global industrial supply chains and stressed the importance of the decision not to extend povertyelimination deadline. They offered straightforward assessments of the countrys outstanding weaknesses as well as urging technological selfreliance. The greatly shortened schedule and reduced media coverage have kept some of their concerns and opinions worth broader audiences from the limelight they deserve. But what is clear is that their discussions focused on addressing peoples concerns, and their proposals and suggestions are aimed at enhancing the peoples sense of gain, wellbeing and happiness. This meeting was held at a critical moment for the overall promotion of epidemic prevention and control, and economic and social development. While some annual routines can wait until the political advisers meet next year, matters like these cant. As the COVID pandemic appears to have peaked in most major countries, and many countries are itching to open a postpandemic chapter, the country cant afford entering that brand new stage unprepared. Especially since many of the changes in a postCOVID world may have to do with this country. During the session, President Xi Jinping visited the members of the th National Committee of the CPPCC and participated in a joint group meeting, focusing on major issues and pointing out the direction for the CPPCC members to perform their duties and responsibilities. It was important that the CPPCC members grasped the general trend and pooled their wisdom so that what has been a crisis can be turned into an opportunity. At present, the situation at home and abroad is complicated, and the challenges facing Chinas economic and social development are unprecedented. As the country wades deeper into uncharted waters of a rapidly changing world and increasingly hostile political climate, the political advisers must never hesitate to share their wisdom about what is and what is not the right thing to do, to help the country stay on course to realize a moderately prosperous society in all aspects and fulfill the tasks of the th FiveYear Plan . While political resolve may prove essential in a new world full of changes unseen in a century, the political advisory body, as the session has shown, has unmatched importance for peopleoriented decisionmaking.