CPC praised by foreign parties over sharing Chinas antivirus experience
2020-03-18 10:04
Zhang Boli center from the Chinese Academy of Engineering and president of Tianjin University of Traditional Chinese Medicine Tong Xiaolin right, from the Chinese Academy of Sciences and head researcher of the China Academy of Chinese Medical Sciences and Huang Luqi left, from the Chinese Academy of Engineering and president of the China Academy of Chinese Medical Sciences. Three experts in traditional Chinese medicine area attend a news conference to introduce prescriptions of TCM treatment to patients with novel coronavirus pneumonia, in Wuhan, Hubei province, on March , . Photo by Zhu Xingxin from China Daily    BEIJING  A number of overseas political parties have recently expressed gratitude to the Communist Party of China for sharing Chinas experience and practices in its combat against COVID. While making an effective effort against the novel coronavirus epidemic at home, China has been committed to international collaboration, injecting confidence and strength into the global fight of the disease, they said in messages addressed to the International Department of the CPC Central Committee. Buya Tulga, general secretary of the Mongolian Peoples Revolutionary Party, said the international community should learn from Chinas experience and practices in fighting COVID. At the difficult moment of the virus outbreak, Xi Jinping, general secretary of CPC Central Committee, has made wise decisions that has led to a series of strong measures to be taken in China, and Chinas combat of the disease has set a fine example for the ongoing global fight, he said, adding the CPCs call for countries to make a concerted antivirus effort to handle the current difficulty is warmly responded and supported by the international community. Ace Magashule, secretarygeneral of South Africas ruling African National Congress party, said they are moved by the CPCs timely experiencesharing following the significant progress made in Chinas fight against COVID, which shows the CPCs high sense of responsibility for safeguarding the global public health security as well as building a community with a shared future for mankind. Chinas experience will be instructional to South Africa in its coping with the virus, and the ANC is willing to work with the CPC to jointly safeguard the international public health security, he said. Maria Rizzotti, president of Italys Parliamentary Association Friends of China, said Italy has updated its antivirus measures based on the advice from the Chinese expert team dispatched to her country. The Italian people are grateful for the CPC outlining Chinas antivirus practices in its letter  an embodiment of the notion in Xis proposal of building a community with a shared future for mankind, she said, who meanwhile voiced the confidence that Italy and China will jointly defeat the virus, with their friendship to grow stronger as time goes by. Mohsen Rezaee, secretary of Irans Expediency Discernment Council, expressed his sincere thanks to China for its support for Irans epidemic prevention and control. Saying that enhancing the IranChina friendly cooperation is a significant way to tackle the current challenge, Rezaee said that the Iranian side expects to benefit from Chinas remarkable battle against the coronavirus, and expand cooperation with China in joint antivirus efforts. Yemeni Socialist Party General Secretary Abdulraham AlSaqqaf said that the measures that China has taken embodied its strong governance capacity and the great importance that it has attached to the lives and security of the general public, and demonstrated its extremely high moral standard and tremendous courage. Chinas experience and practice will play an important role in combating the epidemic across the world, he added. Chairman of the EUChina Friendship Group in the European Parliament Jan Zahradil said that at present, Europe has become the epicenter of COVID worldwide, and Chinas experience in carrying out rapid and precise detection of the virus, and providing adequate protection for the medical staff will provide the most efficient help for Europe to combat the epidemic. Zahradil added that Chinas generous help fully proved that China regards the European Union and its member states as its true strategic partners. He expressed his hope that the EU and China could join hands to win the battle against the epidemic, and together usher in a new era featuring a closer EUChina relationship. Iraklis Tsavdaridis, executive secretary of the World Peace Council, said that Chinas epidemic prevention and control has entered a new phase, with the number of confirmed cases decreasing and economic recovery gaining momentum, adding that Chinas professionalism, scientific methods and strong organizational and mobility ability in fighting the virus has won respect globally. Tsavdaridis said that at this critical moment when the epidemic is spreading to other countries and areas, all governments should learn from Chinas experience and outcomes in combating COVID.