Countrys factories hard at work making materials to combat virus
2020-04-15 09:48
Workers make medical protective masks at a factory in Nanchang, Jiangxi province. PhotoHu Guolin for China Daily    Chinese companies are gearing up capacity to meet surging foreign demand for novel coronavirusrelated medical supplies such as protective gowns, noncontact infrared thermometers and surgical masksall of which are urgently needed to save the lives of COVID patients as the pandemic rages overseas. Chinas novel coronavirusrelated medical supply exports last month were worth . billion yuan . million, according to the General Administration of Customs. Jiangsu Yuwell Group, a leading manufacturer of medical products in China, said it had received orders for , noncontact infrared thermometers, , blood oxygen saturation monitors, , ventilators and , oxygen concentrators from  countries and regions as of April . Having bolstered its production capacity and daily output, the company has shipped , noncontact infrared forehead thermometers and , ventilators to more than  countries including Italy, Spain, Germany and France. It has also donated about  million yuan in medical supplies to Chinese provinces and foreign countries severely hit by COVIDincluding Hubei province and Italyto support the global epidemic prevention and control situation, the company said. Zhang Chengyu, deputy general manager of Dishang Group Co Ltd, an apparel company based in Shandong province, said the company has exported protective gowns worth  million to more than  countries and regions, with more than  million of the product exports already shipped. The companys daily output of protective gowns stands at ,. Our factory is at fullload operation round the clock, and we are considering whether to expand capacity and output if the pandemic doesnt ease up within the following days, she said. Zhang said the company never expected the epidemic could be so serious around the world. Though it is the worlds largest producer of protective gowns and surgical masks, China was faced with a massive shortfall of protective gear following the outbreak of the disease. Thanks to efforts of Chinese companies to step up provisions, the countrys acute shortages were soon mitigated. By Feb , more than  percent of medical supply manufacturers in the textile industry had resumed production, according to data from the China National Textile and Apparel Council. During late January and early February, many apparel companies shifted production to protective gowns and even petroleum firms built up new production lines to make surgical masks. Dishang Group, founded in , is one of Chinas largest apparel exporters. In response to the countrys acute need, the company built a protective gown production line in less than  hours on Feb , with daily production capacity reaching , units just three days later. As of early March, the company had produced , protective gowns for the domestic market. Overseas orders began to surge in early March. Increased overseas market demand is a business opportunity for us, but we are also very concerned for the health and wellbeing of people overseas and want to help, because we need to help them in time of need, Zhang said. Besides, the pandemic knows no borders and has severely impacted the global economy. Only with efforts from every country can we restore the normal status of the global supply chain and economic activity as soon as possible. The largest order so far was from Italy, followed by Belgium, Spain, Greece, Denmark and the Czech Republic, while Japan, Africa and Southeast Asia have also ranked on the companys export destinations, according to Zhang. The company is also helping seven producers in Shandong and Henan provinces export protective gowns, masks and face shields worth about  million, using the companys overseas sales and marketing resources, she added.