Countries ramp up measures against COVID
2020-03-05 03:16
Following the outbreak of the coronavirus in Japan, a woman wearing a protective mask is seen at the scramble crossing in Shibuya shopping district in Tokyo, March , .?PhotoAgencies    In their battle against novel coronavirus pneumonia, which has infected over , people worldwide, many countries are looking at proactive measures to contain the spread, including a possible delay of the Tokyo Olympic Games, boosting national budgets or building temporary hospitals. Japans confirmed COVID cases hit , on Wednesday. Five new infections were reported as of Wednesday afternoon, in locations from Yamaguchi prefecture in the west to Hokkaido in the north, underlining the viruss spread and raising questions about whether the Olympics will go ahead. But the governments top spokesman said that Japan would continue to plan to host the Games in July. We will steadily proceed with our preparations while closely coordinating with the International Olympic Committee and the organizing committee, Chief Cabinet Secretary Yoshihide Suga said at a news conference on Wednesday. IOC President Thomas Bach reiterated on Tuesday his backing for this summers Games despite the coronavirus threat, urging athletes to prepare, full steam ahead. Still, commentators have expressed worries that the Games might be postponed or even canceled. Seiko Hashimoto, Japans Olympics minister, said on Tuesday that the contract to hold the Tokyo Games specifies only that the event has to be held in , implying the Olympics could be held later in the year and would not have to start on July  as planned. Meanwhile, South Koreas COVID outbreak, concentrated in the southeastern city of Daegu, showed little sign of a slowdown. New cases identified on Wednesday brought the nations total number of infections to ,, the Korea Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said. Earlier in the day, Daegu reported the nations rd fatality from the virus, a yearold woman who had no underlying illness, according to KCDC DirectorGeneral Jeong Eunkyeong. Seoul said it was seeking an extra budget appropriation of . billion to help fight the virus and mitigate the economic fallout, according to Yonhap News Agency. In the epicenter of the Middle East outbreak, Iran put its armed forces on alert on Tuesday to assist health officials in battling the novel coronavirus, while a special hospital will be built for infected patients. On Wednesday, the country reported  new deaths from COVID and  additional cases, for a total of  dead and , infected. Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei assigned all government entities, including his own office and the armed forces, the task of fully cooperating with the Health Ministry, which is at the forefront of the fight, according to Irans PressTV. Officials previously said they had plans for , soldiers and members of the Basij, the allvolunteer force of Irans Revolutionary Guard, to sanitize public areas, direct traffic and trace contacts that sick people had with others. The Guard already has been spraying down streets in major Iranian cities. A municipal official in the central Iranian province of Yazd said on Sunday that the province would set up a special hospital in the city of Yazd to treat patients confirmed to have novel coronavirus pneumonia and to help contain the deadly virus. The hospital will cover , square meters and include an emergency ward and a warehouse for biohazard management equipment. The government has authorized companies to increase the production of detergents, disinfectants and hygiene products, said Reza Rahmani, Irans minister of industry, mines and trade. Last week, Iran also offered temporary furloughs to over , prisoners, nearly a third of all prisoners held in the country, the judiciarys Mizan news agency reported. With the collection of more data, the World Health Organization said on Tuesday that COVID does not appear to be transmitted as efficiently as influenza. Speaking at a media briefing, DirectorGeneral Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said Evidence from China is that only  percent of reported COVID cases do not have symptoms and most of those cases develop symptoms within two days. COVID causes more severe disease than seasonal influenza, Tedros said, adding while many people globally have built up immunity to seasonal flu strains, COVID is a new coronavirus to which no one has immunity. There is no vaccine and no specific treatment for the new virus. However, clinical trials of medications are now taking place, and more than  vaccine candidates are in development, he said. Of the , people reported infected around the world, more than , cases were from outside China. As one epidemic looks like its ending, another is becoming increasingly complex, he said. The actions these newly affected countries take today will be the difference between a handful of cases and a larger cluster. Contact the writers at liuxuanchinadaily.com.cn