Could China return in shortened  F season?
2020-04-08 14:12
General view during the warm up lap before the race?Formula One F in?Shanghai International Circuit, Shanghai, China, April , . PhotoAgencies    BEIJING  With the global COVID pandemic having halted almost all competitive sport so far in , much attention has turned to when competition might reasonably resume. Motorsport has been equally affected by the global pause on everyday life, and as the Formula  fraternity wrestles with waves of cancellations and postponements, how might the  F season now proceed? Originally slated to contain a record  races, the  campaign has seen its first eight events either canceled or postponed, with the season placed on indefinite hiatus. As things stand, the first race of  will be the Canadian Grand Prix on June , though this timeframe appears optimistic, especially given the postponement of the  Olympic Games originally set to open on July . Assuming that F will not be in a position to resume until then, that would leave the British Grand Prix on July  as the first of an race season. F regulations decree that a season must contain at least eight races to be granted world championship status, so even this hugely truncated version of the campaign would still carry the necessary weight in the record books. However, perhaps mindful of the financial implications of such a curtailed season, F boss Chase Carey has expressed hope that the  season will involve between  to  races. This would likely take into account the rescheduling of earlier postponed rounds and a possible extension of the season into January . With this in mind, could it be that  may yet see a Chinese Grand Prix? Perhaps. The Shanghaibased race was the first of the  F season to be called off back in February, as China grappled with the emerging COVID epidemic. But while cases of coronavirus continue to rise across Fs traditional European heartland, China is now in a state of recovery, with coronavirus cases falling and shops, restaurants and schools beginning to reopen. Reports in the British media last week suggested that the Shanghai International Circuit, which hosts the Chinese GP, is now semioperational, with a round of the China GT championship tentatively scheduled to be held at the track on June . Though the chilly Shanghai winter may prevent a Grand Prix being held there between November and January, the unprecedented nature of the  season will likely see races being rescheduled much more freely than in a regular year, and F teams have waived their rights to consultation on any changes. The Chinese Grand Prix has been everpresent on the F calendar since , and a rescheduling of the  race would make much sense for a sport eager to increase its presence in the worlds most populous country. Fs former commercial director Sean Bratches revealed last April that talks were ongoing with several cities about holding a second Grand Prix in China, and the sport has also revealed plans to open a dedicated office in the capital Beijing. And while Fs first priority will doubtless be ensuring that the season can eventually begin when it is safe and convenient to do so, the notion of a Chinese Grand Prix in  may yet become a reality.