Coronavirus Battle in China Why were mass quarantines exercised on Wuhan and other epidemic areas?
2020-02-03 16:55
Quarantine is a traditional and yet the most effective measure to contain a deadly epidemic, although it may bring unforeseen risks and consequences. Because there is no specific cure or vaccine against viruscaused infections including nCoV,standard public health emergency measures usually prove most efficient, including isolating the sources of infection, cutting off or interrupting transmission routes, and special care for the most susceptible people. Available medical evidence shows that humans, regardless of gender, age, or race, are all susceptible to this deadly new coronavirus thus, in the absence of specific cure or vaccine, source isolation and transmission chain interruption are by far the only reliable and effective methods. The unprecedented exercise of a full quarantine on Wuhan, the heart of the outbreak, reflects Chinas dedication as a responsible great power. In fact, since the quarantine began, the number of confirmed cases in all regions has grown at a much lower speed than that in the epicenter Hubei province and Wuhan remains the only city with concentrated infections. Of all the confirmed cases outside Hubei province, the majority of patients have either lived in or traveled to Wuhan or other areas of Hubei recently, and the rest have been in close contact with the abovementioned patients. So far, there has been no reported incident of local community transmission or any new epicenter of outbreak.?Based on these facts, we can conclude that strict control over population outflows from Hubei province is an effective way to contain the spread of the deadly virus. At present, highlevel emergency alerts have been activated all across China and vigorous public health measures taken to identify, diagnose, and isolate infections or suspected cases at the earliest possible moment. At the same time, the Lunar New Year holidays have been extended to keep the nationwide migration of population at the minimum level and travelers from Wuhan and other epidemic areas are advised to report their travel records and to selfquarantine for two weeks to prevent community transmission. The reportedfive million people who had left Wuhan before the lockdown announcement are not panicky evacuees, but migrant workers seeking family reunions back in theirhometowns or holiday travelers taking their leisure time around China and even abroad.What would happen if China had not closed off Wuhan and other epidemic areas?According to credible analysis, highlyconnected global transport networks may enable contagious pathogens to spread from backwater villages in unknown corners of the world to major cities on six continents in less than  hours and trigger outbreaks or cause epidemics. Yet in China, by January , , more than a month after the first confirmed case was reported and eight days after the Wuhan lockdown, there had been  countries reporting  scattered cases of infection altogetheraccording to the latest WHO report. Had the Chinese government not taken determined efforts to quarantine the places with concentrated confirmed cases, the deadly virus may have spread all overthe world and generated devastating impact on the global economic and public health systems. As WHO DirectorGeneral Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesuson correctly pointed out at a press conference on January , the Chinese government is to be congratulated for the extraordinary measures it has taken to contain the outbreak, despite the severe social and economic impact those measures are having on the Chinese people.Beijing is doing everything possible to ensure sustained supplies of daily necessities and medical materials. Hubei province is abundant in natural resources and basic supplies have never fallen short. The Ministry of Commerce has activated a material supplying mechanism involving nine provincial authorities, through which basic items, including medical materials, steadily flow into Hubei. It is a longrunning tradition for the Chinese to store more than enough food and other items for the Spring Festival season and many households in Wuhan have already accumulated ample supplies before the lockdown. So there is not a general shortage of food or other life necessities. Wuhan citizens are not left in a deserted city to their own devices. Food supplies and?basic social services are fully ensured. Although Wuhans public transport has been suspended, local residents personal freedom has not been restricted and most households have opted for selfquarantine to avoid potential infection. Those who have to travel are offered vehicles by communitylevel organizations. Public mood is improving as local residents lives begin to come back to normal with regular information disclosure and steppedup personal hygienic measures.Hubei province has  gradeA hospitals and  other medical facilities, of which two of Chinas top ten hospitals are located in Wuhan, together with  other medical facilities. Medical institutions across China stand ready to provide assistance to Wuhan at request and groups of medical personnel are arriving at Wuhan to reinforce the local public health system. Following the model of Xiaotangshan Hospital built in  to treat the severe acute respiratory syndrome SARS victims in Beijing, three new hospitals are erected in Hubei, including the ,bed Dabieshan Regional Medical Center in Huang Gang, which was put into full operation on January , as well as the Huoshenshan Hospital with , beds and covering , square meters and Leishenshan Hospital with , beds and spanning , square meters in Wuhan,which are expected to be ready for use on February  and , respectively  within  days after plans for construction were made. Full operation of the three facilities will further enhance the local public health capacities.From Coronavirus Battle in China Process and Prospect, a report written by Shanghai Institutes for International Studies