Cooperation vital to defeat COVID pandemic
2020-04-29 15:12
Shopkeepers gather outside a closed electronics market, to reopen their shops as the lockdown continues during the efforts to stop the spread of the coronavirus disease COVID, in Karachi, Pakistan April , . PhotoAgencies    The COVID pandemic has once again proved that mankind is a community with a shared future, and the international community should make joint efforts to address the challenges and risks brought about by the pandemic. The virus respects no borders, and cooperation is of vital importance to combat this common enemy. China, upholding the concept of building a community of a shared future for mankind, has made herculean efforts to overcome the disease and pointed the way forward for the global fight against the epidemic. Peoples lives should always be the top priority in the building of a community of a shared future for mankind. From the beginning of the epidemic, China has clearly ensured that the safety and health of the people be put first. Over the past few months, China has spared no effort to save lives and treat patients at all costs, and has also spared no effort to do all kinds of prevention and control work to achieve the goal of isolation, collection, inspection and treatment. As the epidemic continues to spread around the globe, more and more countries have become aware that principles such as putting peoples lives first and stay home, save lives are globally applicable. Only by working together toward the common goal of putting peoples lives first, can the international community foster the necessary synergy to win the battle against the virus. In the face of global health crisis caused by COVID, all countries and individuals should take responsibility to contain the spread of the virus as soon as possible. After the outbreak, China, based on its own national situation, adopted strict prevention and control measures, such as standard quarantine measures, as well as the building of new and makeshift hospitals. Chinese people from all walks of life embraced their social responsibilities and played an active part in the battle against the epidemic. They sacrificed their own interests for the sake of the whole country and beyond. The WHO said that China has rolled out perhaps the most ambitious, agile and aggressive disease containment effort in history. If we fulfill our responsibilities, then human beings will win the battle against the virus. Mutual assistance is indispensable in the global fight against the pandemic. Working together for our mutual benefit is a reliable solution for global issues. China will never forget the assistance and support offered by the international community during the outbreak. Guided by the vision of building a community of a shared future for mankind, China has advanced international cooperation, shared its experiences and practices in epidemic prevention and control with the international community, as well as sent medical teams and provided medical supplies and necessities to other countries. Chinese enterprises, civil society groups and individuals have also donated medical materials to other countries and regions. At such a crucial moment, it is important for all the worlds nations to act with unity and work together on a collective response and foster greater synergy, so that human beings can beat this major infectious disease and make the future for mankind better.