Cooperation between major countries an important engine driving global recovery
2021-02-03 17:30
Photo taken on Jan. ,  shows the logo of the World Economic Forum WEF in Davos, Switzerland. XinhuaXu Jinquan    Its a common aspiration of the world that countries, especially major countries, shall uphold the spirit of partnership and work together to recover the global economy. The World Economic Forum WEF Virtual Event of the Davos Agenda was recently held online with the theme A Crucial Year to Rebuild Trust, where global political and business leaders, as well as heads of social organizations gathered to find remedies to the COVID pandemic and downbeat economic data. An uneven economic rebound can exacerbate the inequities in many countries, said the Global Risks Report  recently issued by the WEF. The report believes that leadership and international cooperation are more important than ever in todays world. In the era of economic globalization, countries development is interwoven. No country is able to isolate itself from the rest of the world, and coordination and cooperation remain an inevitable choice. After the outbreak of the international financial crisis in , the Group of  G, working together with the spirit of solidarity, steered the world economy away from a free fall and towards stability and recovery. It was viewed as a pioneering endeavor in the age of globalization where united efforts for winwin outcomes prevailed over division caused by selfish interest. Taking responsible measures, China played an important role in facilitating global recovery. Then US President Barack Obama noted that America needed Chinas support and cooperation to tide over the recession. Then US Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson also believed that cooperation was the only way to make a success in developing relations with China. Since the pandemic broke out, China has effectively coordinated epidemic prevention and control and economic and social development. It was the first country to pick up economic growth, becoming an important engine driving global recovery. It was amid open cooperation that the country stood as the only major economy that secured positive economic growth. Last year, Chinas foreign trade of goods expanded . percent from a year ago, and its paidin foreign direct investment also rose . percent. Bilateral trade between China and the US was up . percent in . Most of the US companies are more optimistic about the Chinese market and are expanding investment in China, hoping to be a part of Chinas economic growth. These facts prove that the two countries share broad common interests and enjoy huge space for cooperation. The true value of ChinaUS cooperation is more prominent amid the current economic downturn. Last year, around , US firms filed lawsuits in the US Court of International Trade against the US government over its tariffs on China. The voice for cooperation with China in the American society surpassed that for decoupling. According to a recent report by USChina Business Council USCBC and Oxford Economics, a significant decoupling of the worlds two largest economies could shrink US GDP by . trillion over the next five years and result in , fewer US jobs in . USCBC President Craig Allen said trading with China is conducive to US economy and employment and helps improve Americas global competitiveness. US business experts and economic scholars are also calling for rebuilding USChina relations and prevent further decoupling of the two largest economies. Chinese President Xi Jinping recently said that Chinas embarking upon the new journey of fully building a modern socialist country will provide broader space for enterprises from across the world, including Starbucks and other American companies, to develop in China. This important statement triggered high attention from the US society, which indicates that cooperation is a common aspiration of the two countries. Openingup is a fundamental national policy of China. By accelerating to build a new development paradigm, China aims to better connect the domestic and international markets and expand openingup on a higher level, in broader fields and on a wider scope. It is foreseeable that as China continues improving the quality of its economic growth and opens wider to the outside world, global enterprises, including the ones from the US, will definitely enjoy more cooperation opportunities. Major country responsibility is vital for promoting global recovery. ChinaUS relationship is way beyond being bilateral. A sound relationship between the two countries will make the world more peaceful, stable and prosperous. At a critical moment when global economy is facing a severe situation with unstable and imbalanced recovery, the world is expecting China and the US to join hands to power the global economy. American media outlets noted that to enhance cooperation with China is beneficial to US and even world economy. An editorial by Japanese news agency Mainichi Shimbun also pointed out that the recovery of cooperation between the two countries is of vital importance for the world when COVID is further dividing the global community. New opportunities for ChinaUS economic cooperation do exist, and whats more important is whether they can be found and grasped. It is noteworthy that as long as the two countries once again make economic cooperation a stabilizer and ballast stone for their relations, eye on the bigger picture and longterm interests, and maintain healthy development of their economic ties, they can enhance the common wellbeing of their people and even the people in the rest of the world. Zhong Sheng is a pen name often used by Peoples Daily to express its views on foreign policy.