Control of imported infections priority now China Daily editorial
2020-03-22 18:53
A foreigner receives a nucleic acid test at a temporary inspection point in Shanghai on March , .? Photo by Gao Erqiangchinadaily.com.cn    That the  new cases of infections from Saturday to Sunday were all imported ones, except for one person who contracted the virus from an imported infection, indicates that the biggest challenge now for the Chinese mainlands prevention and control efforts is to get a grip on imported infections from overseas. Of the  cases,  are in Beijing and  in Shanghai, two international cities, which speaks volumes about the pressure both metropolises are under to mobilize resources to prevent infected patients from cheating the screening at borders and so becoming new sources of transmission of the virus. In a contingency plan, some international flights to Capital International Airport in Beijing are now being redirected to designated entry airports in nearby cities, where all overseas passengers are being thoroughly screened before continuing their journeys to their destinations. Shanghai made the decision on Sunday that all passengers from overseas will receive nucleic acid testing to see whether they carry the virus and all of them have to be quarantined for  days, and Guangzhou has announced that it will do the same. This will undoubtedly result in some inconveniences for those onboard the international flights, but they should understand that it is a contingency plan intended to more effectively prevent and control the spread of the virus and so will also help safeguard their safety. With the rapid increase in the number of infections all over the world, European countries and the United States in particular, if China can do a good job in containing the spread of the virus from imported infections, it will be a great contribution to the global fight against the pandemic. Not the least because China, with its epidemic well under control, will be able to maintain its tremendous capacity of production to produce face masks, protective suits and other products that are in short supply and which other countries badly need for their fights against the spread of the virus. Chinas exports of such products or giving as aid to other countries will make a huge difference to the global fight against the virus. And because Chinese doctors and virologists, released from frontline duties now the virus is under control in the country, will be able to sum up their experiences in dealing with the outbreak and share their experience with their counterparts in other countries and their methods of saving patients infected with the virus. Something, they are doing right now. Vigilance at the gates is therefore essential.