Consumption rebound sees malls packed
2021-02-17 07:43
People buy commodities at the HTDF shopping mall, a duty free outlet in Sanya, Hainan province, on Tuesday. Due to seasonal promotions, Hainan has seen robust consumption demand during the Spring Festival holiday. Photo by Sha Xiafengfor China Daily    Entertainment options help to attract shoppers during Spring Festival break An meterhigh artificial waterfall has become the latest crowdpuller at the Grandview Mall in Guangzhou, Guangdong province, with the shopping complex receiving huge numbers of shoppers during the Spring Festival holiday. Xie Meng, CEO of Grandview Group, said the mall had planned the launch of the waterfall and a series of festive events and cultural activities well ahead of the Lunar New Year due to the local retail markets strong rebound. We have been expecting huge crowds with the general containment of the COVID epidemic in China, Xie said. The Tianhe Road business circle, where the Grandview Mall and  other shopping centers are located, received nearly  million visitors from Thursday to Saturday, the first three days of the sevenday Spring Festival holiday. The figure was close to the number of visitors the area received before the epidemic. The bustling shops are indicative of the Vshaped recovery of Chinas domestic consumption. The countrys retail sales of consumer goods grew . percent yearonyear in the fourth quarter of last yearcontrasting with a . percent fall for the whole year. A recent report by the China General Chamber of Commerce predicted a yearly increase of more than  percent in Chinas retail sales this year, in view of the countrys firming economy and huge consumption market. For Li Mengjie, a Guangzhou resident and a frequent visitor to the Grandview Mall, a packed shopping center during the Spring Festival holiday seemed almost surreal. Last year, my family and I basically spent the holiday at home, considering the grim epidemic situation, Li said. Everything seems to have returned to where it was during the preepidemic days, except for the epidemic prevention protocols at the shopping centers like wearing masks and health code checks. Li said the Grandview Mall has risen from the epidemic stronger, with more entertainment facilities like an aquarium, a cultural museum and a botanical garden. The shopping mall is now more like an amusement park, she said. I can do all sorts of fun stuff here all day. Shopping centers across China have been integrating more forms of entertainment with traditional shopping and dining businesses to attract more customers. In Guangzhous Beijing Road business circle, another popular shopping location in the city, a major upgrade was completed before Spring Festival. Interactive lighting equipment was installed on the shopping centers walls and unmanned vending carts deployed on the roads. Xian Qiuxian, deputy general manager of a shopping mall in the area, said it had been receiving customers till midnight after recently starting to operate roundtheclock on weekends, which was unimaginable in the past. Zhang Ximing, a researcher with the Zhejiang Academy of Commerce, said Chinas offline retailing, one of the industries worst hit by COVID, has basically shaken off the influence of the epidemic thanks to the countrys effective epidemic prevention and control measures. Chinese customers have restored their confidence and are attaching more importance to personal development and enjoyment in consumption, Zhang said. They are willing to spend more on education, entertainment, medical care and immersive experiences. Chinas brickandmortar retailers have ratcheted up their digital transformation efforts during the Spring Festival shopping season as ecommerce continues to reshape the countrys retail landscape. Last year, the countrys online retail sales of goods increased by . percent yearonyear to reach . trillion yuan . trillion, topping the world for an eighth consecutive year, according to data from the Ministry of Commerce. The digital transformation of shopping centers and other brickandmortar stores can help them make better use of their advantage in providing an enriching experience to the customers and help further unlock the growth potential of Chinas domestic consumption, said Zheng Yongbiao, deputy head of the commerce bureau in Hangzhou, Zhejiangs provincial capital. Xinhua