Construction projects restart in Hubei as coronavirus outbreak eases
2020-04-02 11:14
The purchasing managers index PMI for Chinas manufacturing sector rallied to  percent in March from . percent in February, beating expectations for an economy hit by the coronavirus outbreak, the National Bureau of Statistics NBS said on Tuesday.As pandemic prevention and control in China continues to improve, work and production have been gradually resumed nationwide. The NBS data show that as of March , the resumption rate of large and mediumsized enterprises was . percent, an increase of . percentage points from February. Enterprises in the manufacturing sector had a production resumption rate of . percent, up by . percentage points.The PMI is a monthly chain index reflecting economic trends and shortterm changes in the economy, said the head of the Manufactory Survey Center the NBS.The marked increase in March shows that most enterprises have resumed production in an orderly way, and the situation of enterprises production and operation has improved from the previous month, the official added.China Fortune Land Development Co., Ltd. CFLD, a leading New Industry City operator in the country, has already resumed work across the country. More than  companies in the New Industry Cities of Guan county, Langfang city in North Chinas Hebei province and Jiashan county, Jiaxing city in East Chinas Zhejiang province are again in production. In Hubei the New Industry Cities and related businesses have gradually been resuming work in a safe and orderly manner since March .On March , Huanggang city in Hubei held an investment project signing ceremony. The citys Tuanfeng county had eight projects signed at the ceremony, of which five were New Industry City projects with a total investment of . billion yuan . million.Tuanfeng also held a construction kickoff ceremony on March  for six projects with a total investment of  million yuan in various fields including new materials and new energy.He Yonghong, head of the county, said the ceremony was to demonstrate Tuanfengs confidence and determination to do a good job in epidemic prevention and control and to promote economic and social development.To date, Tuanfengs New Industry City has attracted  projects with a total contracted value of about . billion yuan. Ten of them have started construction.