City brain facilitates urban planning, management
2021-02-16 09:29
The cultural square, with a library, an exhibition center, a theater and a leisure square?is a landmark in Jinpu New District, Dalian, in Liaoning province. Photo provided to China Daily    Jinpu New Area in Dalian, Liaoning province, is building the first city brain project in Northeast China in a bid to facilitate city governance. The digital city operation and management center, dubbed the city brain, has completed the construction of hardware facilities and a basic software platform. It is expected to assist in areas such as limiting the flow of people in popular scenic spots during the Spring Festival holiday. Liu Delin, director of Jinpus big data center, said the platform has demonstrated its efficiency and significance in fighting COVID during the latest round of infections in Jinpu last December. Relying on the populationbased database of the city brain, the system added impetus to the nucleic acid testing work, said Liu. When residents swipe their ID cards, the system can collect their basic information and input it automatically. Information such as risk levels of coronavirus infections and prevention and control measures in different places can also be visualized on a big screen monitor. The coronavirus outbreak is a great test of the city brain, said Qian Shigui, director of the integrated services center of Jinpu New Area, adding that it will continue to improve the system based on experience. With a permanent resident population of more than . million, Dalians Jinpu New Area is the th Statelevel new area, like Pudong New Area in Shanghai. It is also the first area in Northeast China to carry out the city brain project. According to a report released in October by the Information and Industry Development Department of the State Information Center of the National Development and Reform Commission and PCISuntek Technology, the city brain has made remarkable achievements in sectors such as epidemic prevention and control, urban traffic management and city governance. The platform in Jinpu was developed by Dalian Jinpu New Area and Stateowned enterprise China Electronics Technology Group. Dong Guocai, operations director of CETCs Jinpu project, said CETC is carrying out major projects to develop nextgeneration information infrastructure across the country. Similar platforms have been developed in a handful of other domestic cities, including Beijing, Shanghai and Guangzhou, said Dong. Dalian is striving to make the city smarter, speed up the construction and application of G, and build a highlevel city brain, Chen Shaowang, the citys mayor, said in his government report during the annual session of the citys Peoples Congress on Feb .