Cities look at longer weekends to boost consumption and tourism
2020-04-28 07:53
Visitors enter the Grand Bazaar Pedestrian Mall in Urumqi, capital of the Xinjiang Uygur autonomous region, on March . PhotoXinhua    Many regions and cities across China have declared a.dayaweek vacation system to boost consumption and tourism now that the novel coronavirus outbreak has been largely controlled in the country. Since March, Hebei, Zhejiang and Jiangxi provinces, Longnan in Gansu province and Lichuan in Hubei province have launched the .dayaweek vacation system, providing residents a longer weekend to spend with their families. The State Council, Chinas Cabinet, had proposed a .day flexible working system as early as August  to promote tourism. But in many regions that became a reality only recently, when the authorities began promoting consumption and tourism, which dropped drastically because of the strict epidemic prevention and control measures. Tourism and transportation industries, particularly the aviation industry, have suffered heavily because of the suspension of business in the past three months. The National Bureau of Statistics data show the countrys total retail sales of consumer goods declined  percent yearonyear in the first quarter of . As the epidemic situation has largely been controlled now, onthespot consumption and tourism activity is recovering gradually. Many regions are looking at the Labor Day holiday to increase consumption. They are also keen on promoting a .dayaweek flexible working system to allow people time to undertake shortdistance selfdriving trips to boost the retail and hospitality sectors. Unlike longdistance public transport trips, shortdistance selfdriving trips reduce infection risk. However, many feel the wellintentioned policy will be difficult to implement in enterprises that cannot even guarantee twoday weekends. The impact of the pandemic on the economy will also make it difficult for some enterprises to sanction longer weekends. It might be easier to introduce extended weekends in government and institutions, but some fear that reduced working hours for government agencies will inconvenience the public. Therefore, this goodintentioned policys future boils down to effective implementation.