CIIE attracts Fortune  companies, industry leaders
2020-07-27 16:24
People visit the Greenland Global Commodity Trading Hub in Shanghai, July , .?PhotoXinhua    The number of Fortune  companies and industry leaders scheduled to participate in the third China International Import Expo has almost equaled that of the previous editions, China Central Television reported. The third CIIE is slated to be held in Shanghai from Nov  to , and Monday marks the day countdown to the expo. Wang Binjie of the CIIE Bureau said many exhibitors are among the worlds top  enterprises and industry leaders, including top  global companies across the pharmaceutical, medical equipment, highend consumer goods, dairy and automobile industries. Some companies will showcase their newest products and technologies at this years expo. The exhibitors association held its first meeting on Sunday. A total of  member enterprises signed threeyear memoranda with the CIIE Bureau, which means these companies will attend the annual event for the next three years. China has shown its open stance via the CIIE, said Paul Washer, CFO of Fonterra Group and a member of the exhibitors association. We hope to participate in the expo, which is an excellent opportunity for foreign companies. We signed a deal to participate in the expo for three consecutive editions. Its a commitment not only for the CIIE, but also for China and the Chinese market. In order to attract more exhibitors and buyers, the General Administration of Customs recently launched a slew of supporting policies to facilitate customs clearance of attendees at the expo. This year, the total planned exhibition area for enterprises is , square meters, , square meters larger than the previous edition, and four new zones for public health and epidemic prevention, energy conservation and environment protection, smart transportation and sports goods and competitions will be set up at the event. The CIIE is the first dedicated import exhibition in the world, and has seen fruitful outcomes in the past two editions. Last year more than . billion in deals were reached, up  percent from the first expo.