CIFTIS to include special healthcare exhibition
2021-08-25 15:45
Workers at the construction site of the  China International Fair for Trade in Services, which will kick off on Sept  in Beijing. PhotoChina News Service    A special exhibition on healthcare services has been included in this years China International Fair For Trade in Services for the first time, and the planned exhibition space has been fully booked, Beijing News reported. Carrying the title Digital health, innovation integration, this special exhibition will showcase innovations in domestic medical technology, pharmaceutical products and medical services, as well as the highquality development of healthcare services. The exhibition, located in the E Exhibition Hall of Shougang Industrial Park, has six sectors epidemic prevention and control, medical services, technological innovation, traditional medicine, elderly care and international healthcare, covering new medicine, highend medical equipment, and commercial health insurance. At present, some wellknown medical organizations, pharmaceutical enterprises, medical equipment companies, insurance and elderly care institutions have signed up for the exhibition. The share of Fortune  companies and industry leaders scheduled to participate in the exhibition has surpassed  percent, with a globalization ratio of  percent. More than  companies will attend the special exhibition offline, including industry leaders Bayer, Genertec, BD, BeiGene and Fosun, as well as medical institutions such as Peking Union Medical College Hospital, Beijing Tiantan Hospital and Beijing Friendship Hospital. A total of  forums will be held during the fair, including public health summits, international health services and pharmaceutical innovation and cooperation. Through both offline and online platforms, the forums will make use of cloud technology for dialogue, negotiation and exhibition. Organized by the Chinese Ministry of Commerce and the Peoples Government of Beijing, this years CIFTIS will be held both offline and online from Sept  to .