Chinese, Russian FMs urge dialogue, not confrontation
2021-03-24 07:26
Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov and Chinas State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi exchange documents after their talks in Guilin, Guangxi Zhuang autonomous region, on Tuesday. PhotoAFP    The foreign ministers of China and Russia jointly lashed out on Tuesday at some Western countries interference in other nations domestic affairs and their imposition of double standards, and they urged dialogue rather than confrontation in handling global affairs. Following their twoday talks in Guilin, Guangxi Zhuang autonomous region, State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi and Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov issued a joint statement on global governance. The statement elaborated on the official understanding of key concepts such as human rights, democracy, international order and multilateralism. This displays the firm will of Beijing and Moscow to jointly safeguard international fairness and justice, Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying commented. In the statement, China and Russia voiced objections to moves that politicize human rights issues and use these issues as an excuse to interfere in other countries domestic affairs based on double standards. Both countries agreed that there are no unified standards for the patterns of democracy, and it is unacceptable to interfere in sovereign nations internal affairs in the name of advancing democracy. Wang said that at the ongoing gathering of the United Nations Human Rights Council, more than  countries stated their support for Chinas position regarding the Xinjiang Uygur autonomous region. The expansive support is adequate to prove that justice will always prevail in the world, and the times have changed for those nations that attempt to arbitrarily intervene in Chinas domestic affairs by fabricating a story or telling a lie, Wang said. On the definition of international order, Wang criticized the ambiguity of the concept of the rulebased international order, which refers only to the rules set by a fraction of countries that do not represent the will of the international community.