Chinese scientists working with intl peers on virus vaccine, cure
2020-02-15 18:00
Members from the World Health Organization and other relevant international experts will arrive in Beijing this weekend. PhotoXinhua    Chinese scientists are actively communicating and engaging with their international peers in finding vaccine and cure for the novel coronavirus pneumonia, experts said on Saturday. Members from the World Health Organization and other relevant international experts will arrive in Beijing this weekend to meet and conduct surveys with Chinese scientists and jointly formulate suggestions to combat the epidemic in China and around the world, according to the National Health Commission. The foreign experts will conduct indepth exchanges with relevant government bodies involved in the joint prevention and control mechanism of the State Council for the novel coronavirus outbreak, Mi Feng, spokesman for the commission, said at a news briefing on Saturday. In addition, the team will also visit three provinces and selected cities, as well as relevant scientific institutions, to learn about current research on the virus and the effects of Chinas epidemic control efforts in both urban and rural areas, he said. The virus knows no borders, and this epidemic is not just a challenge for China but also for humanity as a whole, Wu Yuanbin, the head of the bureau of science and technology for social development under the Ministry of Science and Technology, said at the news briefing. Since the start of the viral outbreak, many countries have joined forces with China in tackling the challenge, he said. In early January, Chinese scientists have isolated and identified the complete genetic sequence of the coronavirus and later shared them with the WHO and rest of the world. This provided conditions for the international scientific community to begin researching the pathogen, and help to create diagnosis kits, medications and vaccines, he said. Last month, WHO DirectorGeneral Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus praised China for identifying the pathogen and sharing the sequence, as well as the swift and sweeping responses to tackling the viral outbreak on a national scale. Wu said experts from Germany and Russia have stayed in touch with their Chinese peers and both sides shared valuable experiences and practices, including knowledge on developing drugs and vaccines, as well as how to treat seriously ill patients. We are very grateful for the help from foreign experts and businesses, and we are willing to maintain an open attitude to conduct exchanges and cooperation with the international community to jointly tackle the epidemic, Wu said.