Chinese movie theaters raise attendance cap before holiday
2020-09-16 13:31
Movie theaters in China will raise their cap on maximum seating capacity from the current  percent to  percent the new attendance cap will take effect on Sept .PhotoXinhua    Movie theaters in China will raise their cap on maximum seating capacity from the current  percent to  percent as in a mark of further recovery of the worlds secondlargest boxoffice market amid the COVID epidemic. The new attendance cap will take effect on Sept , according to the latest version of a guideline for movie theaters to resume business while putting in place COVID control measures, which was issued on Tuesday by the China Film Distribution and Exhibition Association. The move comes as Chinas boxoffice revenue has hit  billion yuan over  million by Monday since theaters reopened on July , following months of closure due to COVID. It has been hailed as a boost to the upcoming October National Day holiday box office market. The sevenday National Day holiday last year proved a lucrative season, contributing  billion yuan to Chinas yearly box office of over  billion yuan. On the long list of movies set to hit theaters during the multiday holiday this year are the Chinese comedy feature My People, My Homeland and the longawaited animated film Legend of Deification. Similar to the  blockbuster My People, My Country that also debuted around National Day, Oct , the upcoming My People, My Homeland adopts a storytelling technique of collective creation  one film contains multiple stories by different directors. Comprised of five stories, My People, My Homeland has one of the best known Chinese filmmakers, Zhang Yimou, as the executive producer, and Ning Hao as the general director. Legend of Deification, a feature from the companies behind last years China box office champion Ne Zha, which grossed more than  billion yuan in China, tells the story of Jiang Ziya, a mythological figure. Jiang Ziya is a genius strategist from the novel Fengshen Yanyi, or The Investiture of the Gods, a Ming Dynasty  book that inspired Ne Zha, the Chinese film about its eponymous hero. The guideline released on Tuesday also says that the attendance cap for a region is subject to adjustment by provinciallevel film authorities under the guidance of local epidemic prevention and control departments. Moviegoers will have their temperatures taken before entering theaters and those who wear no masks or have a body temperature above . degrees Celsius will not be allowed in, adds the document. All tickets must be booked online with real names and sold without contact.