Chinese mainland reports  imported COVID cases,  local infections
2021-10-06 10:37
A staff member checks the personal information of a traveler at Harbin Railway Station in Harbin, Northeast Chinas Heilongjiang province, Oct , . Strict epidemic prevention and control measures have been imposed at the citys main shopping malls, tourist attractions and other sites where mass gatherings take place during the ongoing National Day holiday. Many essential workers stick to their posts to conduct temperature checks, health code checks, and disinfection. PhotoXinhua    BEIJING ?The Chinese mainland reported  imported COVID cases and two locallytransmitted infections on Tuesday, the National Health Commission in its daily report on Wednesday. One of the newly reported local cases was registered in Harbin, Northeast Chinas Heilongjiang province, and the other in Ili Kazak Autonomous prefecture, Northwest Chinas Xinjiang Uygur autonomous region. Of the new imported cases,  were reported in Yunnan, four in Shanghai, two in Guangxi, and one each in Jilin, Heilongjiang, Jiangsu, Fujian, and Shandong. There were no new suspected cases or new deaths from COVID on the mainland, the commission said. A total of , imported cases had been reported on the mainland by the end of Tuesday. Of them, , had been discharged from hospitals following recovery, and  remained hospitalized. No deaths had been reported among the imported cases. As of Tuesday, the mainland had reported a total of , confirmed COVID cases. Of them, , had been discharged from hospitals following recovery, and , had died as a result of the virus. Currently, there were  confirmed cases receiving treatment, two of whom were in severe conditions. A total of  asymptomatic cases were newly reported Tuesday, one of whom was reported in Yunnan while the others were imported. There were  asymptomatic cases, of whom  were imported, still under medical observation as of Tuesday. By the end of Tuesday, , confirmed COVID cases, including  deaths, had been reported in the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region SAR, while  cases had been reported in the Macao SAR, and , cases, including  deaths, had been reported in Taiwan. A total of , COVID patients in the Hong Kong SAR had been discharged from hospitals following recovery, while  had been discharged in the Macao SAR, and , had been discharged in Taiwan.