Chinese firms expected to grow steadily overseas
2020-02-28 04:31
LONGis employees maintain a solar power station at Tongxin county, Ningxia Hui autonomous region in Northwest China, in September . Photo provided to China Daily    Chinese companies will manage to achieve reasonable growth in overseas markets in fields such as project development, manufacturing and services this year, despite the novel coronavirus pneumonia epidemic, said business leaders and officials. The nations pace of outbound direct investment will not be seriously disrupted by the outbreak, analysts said. The Ministry of Commerce and business associations have urged companies operating overseas to prepare adequate protective materials and make emergency plans to cope with risks posed by the epidemic. The Chinese government has also maintained close communication with the host countries to facilitate the entry of project personnel and the clearance of equipment and materials. LONGi Green Energy Technology Co, a major Chinese manufacturer of monocrystalline silicon photovoltaic products, is giving priority to increasing production at its plant in Kuching, Malaysia, to supply clients in China and other parts of the world to offset losses caused by domestic interruptions to production and transportation. Li Feng, brand director of LONGi Green Technology Co, said the outbreak will have a limited impact on the companys operation and productions. At the moment, the company is organizing the gradual resumption of work nationwide. The company, which is headquartered in Xian, Shaanxi province, plans to expand its operations in Malaysia with the construction of a plant to manufacture monocrystalline cells. To avoid possible customs clearance barriers in foreign countries, the China Chamber of International Commerce advised Chinese companies operating overseas to increase their purchases of production materials and machinery parts from thirdparty countries during the outbreak. China Railway Construction Corp, one of the countrys two biggest rail construction contractors by sales revenue, reported that it had successfully installed the main steel frame of Lusail Stadium in Qatar last week for the nations hosting of the soccer World Cup in . CRCC Chairman Chen Fenjian said the group will resume production in an orderly manner at domestic and overseas projects and plants, and encourage local employees and thirdparty contractors in overseas markets to better allocate resources. The company announced that it recently sealed a . million deal to build apartments and supporting facilities in the Genting Highlands of Malaysia. Cooperation projects related to the Belt and Road Initiative are generally running smoothly with no major delays amid the outbreak, said Chu Shijia, directorgeneral of the Ministry of Commerces comprehensive affairs department. Such projects are closely monitored, and a string of measures have been taken to minimize the epidemics impact, he said, adding that strict epidemic case checks and reporting are required among staff working overseas to prevent the viruss spread. To prevent possible infections, the government requires companies either to delay or reduce the number of overseas trips and longterm assignments for their employees, before China officially announces the epidemic is ended. As the epidemic is largely a regional and likely a shortterm event in China, the resumption of production of Chinese companies abroad will not only boost the global economy, but also show the world that Chinas openingup and the pace of outbound direct investment will not be derailed by the outbreak, said Ma Yu, a researcher at the Chinese Academy of International Trade and Economic Cooperation in Beijing. China must continue to enhance ties with global partners to jointly develop projects in fields including leasing and business services, manufacturing, wholesale and retail, and diversify trading channels, especially in economies involved in the Belt and Road initiative, he added. Domestic companies invested . billion in  economies related to the Belt and Road initiative in January, surging by . percent yearonyear, according to data released earlier this week by the Ministry of Commerce. China Railway Rolling Stock Corp, the countrys biggest train manufacturer by sales revenue, has also prioritized exports and overseas operations, as well as ensuring the safety of national rail transportation amid the epidemic. CRRC Qiqihar Co, a CRRC subsidiary in Heilongjiang province, shipped  coal hopper cars to Australia last week. CRRC Zhuzhou Locomotive Co, another CRRC unit, headquartered in Hunan province, has also resumed production to fulfill more than  overseas orders, including supplying metro trains to Mexico, electric multiple unit trains to the Czech Republic and diesel electric multiple unit trains to the Philippines.