Chinese experience can help fight against pandemic
2020-03-13 09:46
A group of Chinese experts pose for a group photo before heading to Italy on Wednesday. PhotoCCTV News app    President Trump announced a ban on travel from most of Europe to the United States for  days, marking one of the federal governments most sweeping measures yet to contain the rapidly spreading coronavirus. The virus has created severe panic in the society. People are stocking up on food and hygienic products at their homes. Some groceries shops have witnessed shortage of supplies. The United States has more than , confirmed cases and upwards of  deaths, with the virus already spreading out to  states and Washington DC. The worry is that the spread is rather rapid. The newly infected patients are increasing exponentially. Coronavirus COVID is an infectious disease caused by a new virus that had not been previously identified in humans. There is no cure or medicines or vaccine for prevention, yet. The virus causes respiratory illness like the flu with symptoms such as a cough, fever and in more severe cases, pneumonia. You can protect yourself by washing your hands frequently and by avoiding touching your face. It spreads primarily through contact with an infected person when they cough or sneeze, or through droplets of saliva or discharge from the nose. The only way out is prevention. Healthy food habits, hygienic lifestyle, and avoiding big crowds and contact with others may be the only solution. Intake of vitamins, especially Vitamin C or any other food supplement to enhance immunity is strongly recommended. The easy victims are weak, or sick persons or old people with little immunity. As per data, most deaths occurred among senior people. Till this moment, there are , cases worldwide, with , deaths, and , recoveries already. This figure keeps changing from moment to moment. The mortality rate is estimated at around  percent. A number of countries reported the confirmed cases has reached around . Unfortunately, many nations were not prepared well or did not have capacity to test or verify. It has been declared a global threat and pandemic. China has almost overcome COVID and reported cases are on the rapid decrease. President Xi Jinping has made his first visit to Wuhan since the novel coronavirus outbreak began more than two months ago. Xis visit to Wuhan  which has been on lockdown for weeks now, with tens of thousands of confirmed cases of the virus and hundreds of deaths  is a major show of confidence in Chinas response to the pandemic, underlining a message which has been building in state media that the country has succeeded in its fight against COVID. How China has overcome, is a great job. It was not an easy task, the whole nation was on the same page with the leadership and joined hands to fight the outbreak. Huge resources were mobilized, hightech and advance technologies were utilized. Health workers fought this war at the risk of their own lives. It was the strength of the Chinese society and governance system, which made it possible to take all possible measures. While China was fighting against the outbreak, most of the international community was extending helping hand. Especially friendly countries supplied medical material, health workers, and political and moral support. But with few exceptions, some nations laughed on China, humiliated Chinese nationals, and passed derogatory remarks regarding China. Some of the media have also behaved immaturely and irresponsibly. But China is a mature and responsible country and kept its focus on fighting against the epidemic. The world has acknowledged Chinese wisdom and commitment. China has emerged as a capable, strong, global power. While it has spread out to more than  countries and kept on increasing, it is time for the rest of the world to learn from the Chinese experience. China is an old civilization and has a big heart. China is willing to assist and advise any other nation, who soever seeks advice. China feels it is his global responsibility to help any other nation in case if they need it. China has dispatched medical teams and supplies to various effected countries such as Pakistan, Italy and Iran. Trust, Chinese experience will be utilized to save humanity globally. Zamir Ahmed Awan is a nonresident fellow at the Center for China and Globalization. The opinions expressed here are those of the writer and do not represent the views of China Daily and China Daily website.