Chinese COVID vaccines, test kits to feature at Beijing fair
2020-08-25 15:26
A woman holds a small bottle labeled with a Vaccine COVID sticker and a medical syringe in this illustration taken on April , . PhotoAgencies    BEIJING  Chinamade COVID vaccines and test kits will be on show at the upcoming  China International Fair for Trade in Services, to be held in Beijing in early September, according to the organizers. Zheng Jinpu, from the Beijing Municipal Health Commission, said global cooperation on epidemic prevention and Chinas scientific and technological achievements in fighting the COVID epidemic will be a highlight at the fair. Zhang Yuntao, vice president of China National Biotec Group, affiliated to Sinopharm, said the company will bring its nucleic acid test reagents and inactivated COVID vaccines to the trade fair. Yin Weidong, chairman, president and CEO of Beijingbased Sinovac Biotech Co., Ltd., a Nasdaqlisted Chinese biopharmaceutical product maker, said the companys inactivated COVID vaccines, inactivated hepatitis A vaccine and EV hand, foot and mouth disease vaccine will be displayed at the fair. Sponsored by the Ministry of Commerce and the Beijing municipal government, the fair with both online and offline exhibitions covers areas including cultural trade, tourism services, financial services, winter sports and robotics. It includes four summit forums and more than  seminars and promotional events. Traditional Chinese medicine is also a focus of the exhibition on public health and epidemic prevention at the fair. Luo Zenggang, deputy director of the Beijing Municipal Administration of Traditional Chinese Medicine, said this year, more than  traditional Chinese medicine institutions and enterprises, including the China Academy of Chinese Medical Sciences, Beijing University of Chinese Medicine and Beijing TRT Group will display their latest offerings at the fair. So far,  exhibitors from eight countries have registered for the exhibition on public health and epidemic prevention, with  of them to be shown at the fairs offline exhibition venue. Among them are  of the worlds top  enterprises and  industry leaders, according to the organizer.