Viral video shows woman crying over virus test result
2020-07-03 09:21
A screenshot of the video. PhotoSina Weibo    A short video of a young woman crying over the phone that she was told her test result for coronavirus was positive went viral on Thursday afternoon. The woman, surnamed Xie, claimed she received her test result by phone at  pm while she was in a shopping mall in the Shijingshan district in Beijing. The district government announced on its Weibo account that Xie was brought to hospital for further examination by staff from the districts disease control and prevention center. Local police have controlled the area and blocked the scene. Close contacts of Xie have been placed into centralized quarantine for further testing, the announcement said. The city health authority reported one new case on Wednesday, the fewest since the capital found a cluster of novel coronavirus cases on June , and another two patients were discharged from hospital on Wednesday. Beijing has reported new local cases in the single digits for four days in a row, according to Xu Hejian, spokesman for the municipal government. From June  to Wednesday, there were  confirmed cases in Beijing. Four patients have been discharged and the rest are being treated in hospital. Beijing has contained the epidemic with  days of hard work and great efforts, Xu said.However, we still need to be on guard and strictly conduct all prevention measures. Pang Xinghuo, deputy head of the Beijing Center for Disease Control and Prevention, said risks still exist and people should not get together or participate in any gatherings. Wang Hufeng, a professor with the public management college at Renmin University of China, said the falling number of new local cases in Beijing has proved that the fast response to the emergency in Beijing was effective. However, its not appropriate to lower the response level right now, he was quoted by Health Times as saying. He said Beijing should wait for one to two weeks before lowering the response level. According to the authority,  communities in  districts in Beijing have found confirmed COVID cases since June . At the peak of the cluster infection, there were five highrisk communities and  mediumrisk communities. By  pm on Thursday, there were three highrisk areas and  mediumrisk communities in the city.