Chinas UN envoy coronavirus battle yielding results
2020-02-13 08:36
Medical supplies donated by the United Nations Development Program arrive in Beijing on Feb , . PhotoXinhua    Chinas top envoy to the United Nations gave a comprehensive overview of the countrys efforts to fight novel coronavirus pneumonia NCP, saying that Chinas efforts are achieving positive results and that it has the ability and confidence to defeat the outbreak while meeting targets for economic and social development. Zhang Jun, permanent representative of China to the UN, said at the UN Commission for Social Development on Wednesday that in facing the epidemic, China has demonstrated strong determination to fight it against all odds. The Chinese government has made fighting the epidemic its most important and urgent task. Led by President Xi Jinping, China has mobilized itself and adopted the most comprehensive and rigorous preventive and control measures, which have fully demonstrated the power and advantages of Chinas system whereby all resources are pooled together to cope with major challenges. Medical professionals and people from all walks of life are fighting the epidemic with all their might, demonstrating a spirit of fearlessness and sacrifice. The unprecedented measures taken by China have been fully acknowledged by the World Health Organization WHO and the international community. Zhang said that in facing the epidemic, China puts the lives and health of the people first. While making every effort to prevent and control the spread of the epidemic, China has taken decisive actions and built two new hospitals within  days in Wuhan, where the epidemic is most severe. Around , health care professionals from around the country along with large quantities of medical supplies have been sent to the front line. Efforts have been made to step up research and development of medications. With unremitting efforts, there has been positive development in the situation. The number of new confirmed cases in regions beyond Hubei province has been declining for eight consecutive days, and the number of patients cured is rising significantly to more than ,. This has further boosted confidence in defeating the epidemic. Zhang said that in facing the epidemic, China has adopted an open, transparent and highly responsible attitude, not only for its own sake but also for the world. China has applied rigorous prevention and control measures that far exceed the requirements of the International Health Regulations, effectively curbing the spread of the epidemic. At present, cases of infection in other countries are less than  percent of those in China. China reported epidemic information to the WHO and the relevant countries and regions as soon as it was available, and it shared the genetic sequences of the virus, actively communicated with other countries in order to come up with responses. China cares about the safety and health of foreign nationals in China as it does its own people. China has reported the situation in a timely manner and provides all necessary assistance. Zhang emphasized that addressing global public health issues is a challenge faced by all countries. Countries are linked by the same destiny, and no nation can survive alone, he said. In the current circumstances, China calls on the international community to maintain solidarity, support each other, strengthen information, experience and technologysharing and work with the Chinese government and people to jointly meet the challenges. China also calls on the international community to remain rational and make evidencebased decisions, respect the guidance of the WHO, evaluate the epidemic objectively and impartially, and take proper measures to avoid overreaction that would cause greater negative effects. China calls on the international community to increase mutual trust, foster an awareness of a community of a shared future for mankind, oppose politicization of health issues and leave no room for any racist comments, discrimination or stigma. Representatives of Indonesia, Nigeria, the Philippines, Mongolia and Venezuela commended and showed support for China in their statements, calling on the international community to maintain solidarity and work together to tackle the challenges.