Chinas stringent COVID control measures peoplecentered, coordinated approach
2021-08-18 15:57
A medical worker takes a swab sample from a citizen at a COVID nucleic acid testing site in Meiling district of Yangzhou, East Chinas Jiangsu province, Aug , . PhotoXinhua    Although some Western media outlets are pointing a finger at the sustainability of Chinas stringent COVID control measures, China is demonstrating remarkable governance capabilities in reining in coronavirus while coordinating economic and social life, with a great sense of responsibility for its people and the world. Sciencebased and proven highly effective in practice, Chinas epidemic prevention and control measures have helped curb its further spread, featuring lockdowns, massive screening, contact tracing, and largescale vaccination. For the recent surge of the epidemic in Nanjing, the capital of Jiangsu province, for instance, measures like mass nucleic acid testing and travel restrictions have been applied, and the city has registered none confirmed case in the past three days. Chinas domestic successes in controlling COVID stand in contrast with outcomes elsewhere, and other countries should learn what public health lessons they can, said an article published by Lancet in April. For China to have taken determined steps to protect peoples lives and ensure normal operations of economic and social activities, it is because the ruling Communist Party of China CPC values serving peoples interest as its overarching principle, and the right to subsistence and development represents the most fundamental human rights. Chinas victory of the allout peoples war on the virus speaks volumes about the strong leadership of the Communist Party of China and the advantage of Chinas socialist system in rallying collective forces to counter difficulties and challenges. While doing its own job well, China has provided via various means support for other countries to fight the virus. So far, China has offered around  million doses of COVID vaccines to the world, living proof of its acting as a responsible major country. In stark contrast, certain Western countries, though endowed with advanced medical resources, have been witnessing persistently high levels of infections and huge losses of human lives. Figure pointing and blaming China will not solve their problems. They must admit their failure in pandemic response and mend their fences. In face of the threat posed by the coronavirus, the common enemy of humankind, no one is safe until every place is free from the pandemic. Amid the protracted war against COVID that requires the solidarity of all, it is high time those Western media outlets drop manipulation of public opinion and steer back to the right track of international cooperation.