Chinas promise and practice of openingup
2020-11-06 09:40
Shanghai is now home to the regional headquarters of  multinationals and  foreignfunded research and development centers. WANG GANGFOR CHINA DAILY    The China International Import Expo CIIE, hailed as an innovation in the history of global trade, opened its third edition in this Chinese trade hub on Wednesday. As the worlds first importthemed nationallevel expo, the CIIE embodies Chinas solemn promise to openingup, and epitomizes its firm commitment to supporting economic globalization and building an open world economy. At a time when the COVID pandemic is still raging on and the world economy is tottering along, Chinas steadfast promise and practice of openingup resonate with and buoy up all those dedicated to battling the coronavirus, boosting common development and building a brighter future for humanity. Going from strength to strength since its birth, the CIIE demonstrates Chinas unfaltering determination to open wider to the world no matter how the external situation changes. The CIIE came into being a decade after the  global financial crisis, as the world economic recovery was losing steam, trade protectionism and unilateralism were on the rise, and economic globalization was facing strong headwinds. Global trade is an important engine for world economic growth. When the world economy was facing severe challenges, China, as the worlds largest trader of goods, voluntarily set up the CIIE as a platform for businesses around the world to further tap its enormous and growing market. According to a  estimate, China was expected to import more than  trillion and  trillion dollars worth of goods and services respectively in  years. Over the past two years, the CIIE has grown into a key channel for products worldwide to find their way into the Chinese market. Official statistics show that tentative deals worth about . billion and . billion dollars were reached at the previous two editions respectively. Along with Chinas concrete moves to foster a worldclass business environment and deepen bilateral and multilateral cooperation, the CIIE has not only testified to Chinas unflinching commitment to ushering in a new round of highlevel openingup, but also manifested its sense of responsibility as a major country to share its development opportunities and shore up the world economy. The opening of the latest CIIE also clears up the doubts about Chinas opening posture arising from Chinas efforts to form a new development pattern that features the domestic market as the mainstay with domestic and international markets reinforcing each other. The dualcirculation model does not mean that China will run its economy behind closed doors. Rather, China will only open its doors even wider. Our aim is to turn the Chinese market into a market for the world, a market shared by all, and a market accessible to all, Chinese President Xi Jinping said in his keynote speech via video at the CIIE opening ceremony late Wednesday. This way, we will be able to bring more positive energy to the global community. Rolled out as scheduled every year, the CIIE attests that China honors its promise of openingup with concrete actions to share the dividends of its development with the rest of the world and bolster shared growth. Over the past four decades, China has been striding resolutely forward along the path of reform and openingup regardless of the vicissitudes on the global landscape. That path not only suits Chinas development needs but accords with the trend of the times in this age of globalization. As Xi said at the opening ceremony of the first CIIE, openness has become a trademark of China. The president pointed out that China has grown by embracing the world, and the world has also benefited from Chinas openingup. China has for long been making relentless efforts to expand openingup. It has set up a number of special economic zones SEZs, including the Shenzhen SEZ, and established more than  pilot free trade zones across the country. It has been hosting a series of major trade events including the CIIE, the yearold Canton Fair and the China International Fair for Trade in Services CIFTIS. And it has also enacted a new foreign investment law. China unswervingly follows a winwin strategy of openingup, through which the country can draw strength from the world and better benefit the world with its development, Xi said in his speech last month at a grand gathering to celebrate the th anniversary of the Shenzhen SEZ, the forefront and a symbol of Chinas openingup. Since the  international financial meltdown, Chinas imports have contributed one sixth of the global import increase and served as a key booster and anchor of the global economic recovery. A report released by Chinas Ministry of Commerce earlier this year shows that China has been the worlds second largest import market for  consecutive years, accounting for more than  percent of the worlds total imports. Meanwhile, China has now become the largest trading partner of more than  countries and regions. It has signed  cooperation documents with  countries and  international organizations and carried out more than , cooperation projects within the framework of the Belt and Road Initiative. Besides building closer economic and trade partnerships, which have brought tangible benefits to both China and its partners, China has also been working with other countries to address the imbalances and inequalities in global economic and social development, improve the worlds economic governance system, and make economic globalization more inclusive and balanced. In her speech at the first CIIE, Christine Lagarde, then managing director of the International Monetary Fund IMF, said the CIIE is a symbol of Chinas efforts to build a bridge to the world, a bridge to prosperity and a bridge to the future. Defying the multipronged onslaught of COVID, the CIIE not only showcases Chinas substantial progress in epidemic containment, but offers muchneeded hope for the worlds postpandemic growth and development. Upholding the principle of putting peoples lives first, China has put up a resolute and tough fight against the novel coronavirus and placed the epidemic under effective control, laying a solid foundation for the resumption of work and production as well as the return to normal life. Accordingly, Chinas economy is bouncing back, registering growth for two consecutive quarters. China, according to an IMF estimate in October, is expected to record an economic growth of . percent in , emerging as the only major economy in the world that can inch back into positive territory this year. Committed to openingup and sharing its development opportunities, China has in recent months held multiple large fairs, including the  CIFTIS in Beijing, to reanimate global trade and help pull the world economy out of the COVID crater. In doing that, China has also accumulated valuable experience in organizing offline events amid regular epidemic control measures. To ensure the public health of the ongoing CIIE, such rigorous measures have been put in place as complete nucleic acid testing, stringent inspection and quarantine procedures, and standardized sampling of imported coldchain food. Since February, the organizers have also introduced cloud registration, cloud signing and cloud presentation to better serve exhibitors during the pandemic. Thanks to the safety guarantee and the prospect of new business opportunities, enterprises worldwide have exhibited unprecedented enthusiasm for and confidence in the latest expo. According to the organizers, the exhibition area this year far exceeds that of the previous edition. Particularly, to meet the soaring needs of public health equipment and solutions, the CIIE has also designated a special subsection to public health and epidemic prevention this year, so that more than  exhibitors can introduce their masks, protective gears, test reagents, ECMO devices and breathing machines to customers both in China and around the world. In todays world, where the international division of labor has intertwined different economies into complex global supply chains and value chains, the development trajectories of countries across the world have become closely interdependent like never before. And the COVID pandemic, as Xi noted at the general debate of the th UN General Assembly in September, reminds us that economic globalization is an indisputable reality and a historical trend. Burying ones head in the sand like an ostrich in the face of economic globalization or trying to fight it with Don Quixotes lance goes against the trend of history, he added. With an open mind and a dream for development, entrepreneurs from all corners of the globe are gathering in the fourleaf clovershaped National Exhibition and Convention Center in Shanghai, yearning for luck and success in the worlds most populous consumer market. As long as all countries stand on the right side of history and work together to safeguard free trade and the multilateral trading system, foster an innovative and inclusive world economy and build a community with a shared future for mankind, forging a better future for all will not be a matter of luck, but just a matter of time.