Chinas nonmanufacturing PMI rises in August
2020-08-31 09:53
Containers are unloaded from a ship at a port of Qingdao, East Chinas Shandong province, on Feb , . PhotoXinhua    BEIJING  The purchasing managers index PMI for Chinas nonmanufacturing sector came in at . in August, up from . in July, the National Bureau of Statistics NBS said Monday. A reading above  indicates expansion, while a reading below it reflects contraction. The nonmanufacturing PMI has remained above  for six months in a row, data from the NBS showed. In August, the service sector accelerated its pace of recovery, with the subindex for business activities up . points from the previous month to .. In breakdown, transportation and telecommunications sectors saw a faster recovery in their business volume, with the subindexes standing above  for the fourth consecutive month, NBS data showed. As the domestic COVID prevention and control situation remained stable, consumer demand was further unleashed amid business restoration and reviving market activities, said NBS senior statistician Zhao Qinghe. Driven by the overall economic recovery in China, the subindex for business activities of leasing and business services returned to the expansion zone for the first time since the outbreak of the epidemic, Zhao noted. Enterprises demonstrated a stable level of confidence for growth, as Mondays data showed that the business expectation reading remained flat with that of the previous month at .. Subindices for industries including rail transportation, air transportation, accommodations and internet software were above . Meanwhile, the subindex for activities in the construction sector dropped . points to .. The subindex for new orders climbed . points to . in August, and the sector is expected to maintain faster growth in the near future amid steady progress of infrastructure construction, said Zhao. Mondays data also showed that the PMI for Chinas manufacturing sector came in at  in August, remaining in the expansion zone but down from . in July.?