Chinas International Development Cooperation in the New Era
2021-01-11 08:01
Editors Note Chinas State Council Information Office issued a white paper titled Chinas International Development Cooperation in the New Era, on Sunday. Full text below Preface I.International Development Cooperation in the New Era and a Global Community of Shared Future II.Achieving New Progress in International Development Cooperation III.Boosting International Cooperation on the Belt and Road IV.Contributing to the UN  Agenda for Sustainable Development V.Responding to Global Humanitarian Challenges Together VI.Supporting the Endogenous Growth of Developing Countries VII.Strengthening International Exchanges and Tripartite Cooperation VIII.Future Prospects for Chinas International Development Cooperation Conclusion Preface China is the largest developing country in the world. Since its founding in , the Peoples Republic of China has always demonstrated a spirit of internationalism and humanitarianism following and supporting other developing countries efforts to improve their peoples lives and achieve development. From the outset, even though China was itself short of funds, it started offering assistance to needy countries in support of their fight for national independence and liberation, and their effort to promote economic and social development, which laid a solid foundation for longterm friendship and cooperation with those countries. After launching reform and opening up in , China has provided other developing economies with even more aid in more diverse forms to boost common development. China entered a new era after the th National Congress of the Communist Party of China CPC in . President Xi Jinping has considered Chinas responsibilities from a global perspective, and proposed the vision of a global community of shared future and the Belt and Road Initiative. China is committed to pursuing the greater good and shared interests, and upholding the principles of sincerity, real results, affinity, and good faith for developing relations with other developing countries and the principles of amity, sincerity, mutual benefit, and inclusiveness for expanding relations with neighboring countries. To this end, President Xi has taken advantage of many major international occasions to announce a broad range of cooperation measures. These present Chinas approach, offer its vision, and contribute its strength to resolving global development issues and implementing the United Nations  Agenda for Sustainable Development. In response to the call of the times, China has been upgrading its foreign assistance to a model of international development cooperation, taking on new initiatives and achieving greater results in this new era. The Chinese government is publishing this white paper to introduce Chinas views on international development cooperation in the new era, the actions it has taken, and its plans for the future. I. International Development Cooperation in the New Era and a Global Community of Shared Future The unprecedented level of interconnection and interdependence among countries binds them into a global community of shared future. Guided by this vision, Chinas international development cooperation in the new era has a more profound philosophical basis and clearer goals, which lead to more concrete actions.