Chinas highquality development in the eyes of foreign firms to CIIE
2020-11-04 15:52
Mascots of the China International Import Expo CIIE are seen at the National Exhibition and Convention Center Shanghai, a main venue for the rd CIIE, in Shanghai, on Nov , . PhotoXinhua    SHANGHAI  Many foreign firms have brought newest products and services to the rd China International Import Expo in line with Chinas pursuit of highquality development. This year, Japans Mitsubishi Electric Corporation will feature the theme New infrastructure, New power, New future at the rd CIIE, slated to take place in Shanghai from Nov  to . The corporations exhibits include smart and green technologies and products, such as a robot that performs tea ceremonies. The Chinese government has stressed the importance of developing new infrastructure such as G networks and data centers, said Tomizawa Katsuyuki, corporate executive of Mitsubishi and its chief representative in China. He stressed that investment in new infrastructure would not only drive Chinas highquality development in the long run but also inject impetus for economic growth and stable employment amid the COVID epidemic in the short term. He was confident that Chinas pursuit of highquality development would also be an anchor to the development of the worlds economy, as the country continuously opens up and offers a massive market. The rd CIIE is a perfect example of Chinas commitment to broader openingup, said Tomizawa Katsuyuki. German technology enterprise ZEISS is showcasing its innovative optical technology that supports epidemic prevention research and practical initiatives to promote the development of eye health. Swiss pharmaceutical giant Roche has an exhibition area of  square meters, of which antiepidemic products and services take up an area of  square meters. Despite the impact from COVID, Chinas economy remained stable, with the implementation of digital measures, according to Severin Schwan, chief executive of Roche. He added that digital resources have become a key engine driving economic and social development following the epidemic and a longterm driving factor for better healthcare. Shanghai, where the CIIE takes place, is playing a leading role in the digital transformation and upgrading of Chinas healthcare industry, according to Schwan. The city has launched policies and formed mechanisms for the openness of public health data, said Schwan, adding that Roche is willing to do its best to share its digital practical experience in the world with Shanghai and China at large and fully support the countrys digital transformation and medical healthrelated industries. While witnessing and participating in Chinas path towards highquality development, many foreign firms are also drawing inspiration from China. ZEISS will display its product information and exhibition booth online in an attempt to communicate with people who cannot make it to the site of the CIIE this year, said Liu Yonghua, vicepresident of medical technology, ZEISS China. Chinas prosperous and open market, complete supply chain, transnational railway hubs, worldclass ports, and good infrastructure are all important drivers for ZEISS development in China, Liu said.