Chinas growth gives impetus to global economy
2021-03-08 09:40
Cai MengChina Daily    Owing to the effects of the COVID pandemic,  was an uneasy year for the world, especially for the global economy. Against a background of severe and complicated situation abroad, and arduous reform tasks at home, Chinas hardwon positive economic performance mentioned by Premier Li Keqiang in this years Government Work Report received considerable attention and appreciation worldwide. Three major factors are key to Chinas efforts for sustainable growth this year. First, thanks to the effective measures of epidemic prevention and control last year, the countrys stable economic growth and social development have laid a solid foundation for its manufacturers to export more products to the global market. With its economy entering a normalized growth track, Chinas foreign trade will be firmly supported by stable supply and industrial chains, ensuring supply capacity for its exports and further expanding domestic demand. Second, there is an opportunity in the enhanced innovation ability of Chinas exportoriented companies. Many of them already further pushed consumption upgrade domestically and generated consumer demand through new products, technologies and business models globally in recent years. Despite the headwinds, Chinas foreign trade beat expectations and registered a historic high in , providing a favorable condition for a better performance this year. Third, another opportunity arises from the governments reform and openingup policies. As the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership agreement is expected to take effect by the end of this year, it will enable more than onethird of Chinas foreign trade goods to enjoy zero tariffs in the next stage. Even though China has signed many free trade agreements with various partners, the RCEP platform will create fresh momentum for economic growth in China and provide new impetus to regional and even global economic recovery and growth. Onethird of the trade volume involved in Chinas free trade agreements will be further boosted if the RCEP is implemented in place in the future. As a result, the role of free trade zones can be further enhanced in stabilizing Chinas foreign trade. Thanks to member countries efforts to support the RCEP, the arrangement of a freetrade agreement has also been established between China and Japan for the first time. It has enhanced Chinas business ties with Japan, one of the worlds major economies. Moreover, based on its growth demand, China will further expand the networks of the free trade zones, and upgrade the negotiation of the existing free trade agreements during its th FiveYear Plan period . These moves will certainly further optimize the nations foreign trade strength and service environment. Facing the future, the development of the Chinese economy will inevitably require a close combination of domestic demand and external demand, because the countrys dualcirculation development paradigm will be a strategic response to the specific historical phase of Chinas economic growth and economic globalization during the th FiveYear Plan period and for a longer period of development. To reach these goals, the government must continue to boost the scale of the domestic market, and use the expansion of domestic demand as a strategic tool to promote the continuous recovery of consumption. More efforts are needed to stimulate the purchasing power of consumers, improve consumption policies and the overall economic environment. Though the final consumption contributed to about  percent of Chinas GDP growth from  to , it is still lower than the  percent to  percent levels seen in developed economies, data from the National Bureau of Statistics showed. Therefore, spurring new consumption forms will improve peoples livelihoods, strengthen economic resilience, accelerate the transformation to new development momentum, contribute to marketoriented industrial upgrade and market entities expansion, as well as provide more business opportunities to foreign companies and help stabilize the global economy. On the other hand, the expansion of the domestic market can provide stronger support for the growth of foreign trade, because a strong domestic market is the most important supporting point to cope with changes of global markets and challenges of protectionism. It can not only ensure the stability of the supply chain for foreign trade, but also increase the scale and quality of imports. In terms of promoting the dualcirculation growth pattern, China has taken the domestic market as the mainstay to mitigate the adverse impact caused by protectionism, rather than cutting itself off from the outside world and refusing to open up. The nation has not only promoted a sustained and steady rise in domestic demand, but also enabled many foreign trade companies to seize market opportunities. For example, many countries have strictly restricted the export of epidemic prevention materials after the outbreak. China has not adopted such strict restriction policies. Instead, it encouraged manufacturers to expand production capacity and better meet the needs of the international markets. Thanks to the governments supportive policies, many Chinese companies raised their production capacity in a timely manner and realized the growth of related product exports to exploit new opportunities in the international market and meet new demand for antiepidemic materials. Innovative, green and lowcarbon products and solutions, including G, artificial intelligence, big data, the internet of things, new energy vehicles and the nextgeneration industrial battery, will be the driving force of Chinas economic growth, particularly in the area of exports during the th FiveYear Plan period. In the meantime, the country must keep an open mind to further amplify the domestic market by importing more products from other parts of the world, as the proportion of its imports of consumer goods in the total imports is still low compared to developed countries. To make certain these moves can be implemented smoothly, it is necessary for China to actively participate in global governance and contribute Chinese wisdom for the reform of the World Trade Organization, so as to promote further openingup between the domestic and international circulations from the perspective of rules. In addition to enriching the tangible growth of the Belt and Road Initiative to build a winwin industrial and supply chain cooperation system and expand thirdparty markets in , it is also vital for China to prepare well for either implementing or joining new free trade pacts in the future. For example, since December last year, the Ministry of Commerce has strengthened training on the implementation of the RCEP to systematically introduce articles of the deal on goods, services, investment, rules of origin, Customs facilitation and other areas. It has also assisted local governments, industry organizations and enterprises to be familiar with RCEP rules. As China announced that it is ready to enhance technical communication and exchanges with members of the Comprehensive and Progressive Agreement for TransPacific Partnership on issues regarding joining the pact, its move will promote economic globalization and regional economic integration, in accordance with the requirements for accelerating its new growth pattern in the future. Compared with the RCEP agreement, the CPTPP is an advanced free trade agreement with a higher entry threshold. It provides greater access to the services sector, investment protection and guarantees, more opportunities in government procurement, a facilitative framework for the digital economy and intellectual property protection. The CPTPP, which took effect on Dec ,, is a trade agreement between  countries Australia, Brunei, Canada, Chile, Japan, Malaysia, Mexico, New Zealand, Peru, Singapore and Vietnam. Their aggregate GDP accounts for  percent of the global economy. The writer is the vicepresident of the research institute at the Beijingbased China Council for the Promotion of International Trade. The views dont necessarily reflect those of China Daily.