Chinas Fujian to hold intl investment, trade fair
2020-08-13 13:27
The  China International Fair for Investment  Trade CIFIT and the Belt and Road Investment Congress will kick off on Sept . Photo by Zheng Caixiong For China Daily    FUZHOU  The  China International Fair for Investment  Trade CIFIT and the Belt and Road Investment Congress will kick off on Sept , as scheduled, in Xiamen, East Chinas Fujian province, local authorities said Wednesday. The pavilions featuring investment and industry promotion will cover an exhibition area of around , square meters, with  specialized display zones, the Fujian provincial government said at a press conference. The scale of offline activities, however, will be controlled due to epidemic prevention and control requirement. Currently, a total of  merchant groups have planned to attend the exhibition, with exhibitors from  countries and regions, including Britain, Germany, Japan and the Republic of Korea, making clear their intention to participate in the event. This years fair will focus on themes including new infrastructure, digital economy, and scientific and technological innovation, said Lin Jian, deputy mayor of Xiamen. There will be an industrial internet innovation and development conference, as well as hightech, smartcity and fintech exhibitions to display new technologies and products, Lin said. Meanwhile, the fair will hold a series of forums on the latest global economic development trends within the context of epidemic prevention and control. In addition, this years CIFIT has cooperated with Alibaba Group to set up an online platform to provide services including online display, project docking, investment negotiation, forum discussion and cloud signing. The platform will be available to more than  countries and regions that take part in the fair. The CIFIT, approved by the State Council, takes place every September in Xiamen. It aims at promoting bilateral and multilateral economic and trade exchanges and partnerships.