Chinas fight against COVID A sense of responsibility to the world
2020-02-24 08:55
Medical personnel pose for a photo at Huoshenshan Fire God Mountain Hospital in Wuhan, central Chinas Hubei Province, February , . PhotoXinhua    At this critical time in fighting the coronavirus, I would like to express my genuine and deep sympathy for the people of China, and to pray for final victory over the deadly disease. So many innocent people have lost their lives so many families have lost their loved ones. Under those extreme circumstances herewith I would like to share with people of China my utmost profound respect and admiration. Im proud that today Chinese nation is united as never before at the front line of global defense against the deadly disease. Since the coronavirus outbreak, the whole country has been mobilized to fight the disease, made all necessary deployments, implemented unprecedented prevention and control measures to stop the spread of disease. The speed, intensity and coverage of Chinas response have been truly unique. The countrys nationwide efforts in fighting the coronavirus demonstrate the countrys capability, strength and confidence in defeating the outbreak and its sense of staunch responsibility to the world. Dont be afraid. The light from all over the world is on you. Dont cry. Its not just me, everyone is together to give you strength. These are the lyrics of You are not alone, written by Malaysian musicians to support China in its battle against the COVID outbreak. Millions of people around the world are united in their support to Chinese people in its current battle. Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi said on February  that the leaders of more than  countries and international organizations have already shown their support through telegrams or letters, while the governments and peoples of many countries have donated muchneeded supplies. The world has seen before efficient fights and unity of Chinese people facing various disasters, from battle against the floods in Yangtze River in , to SARS in , and to huge earthquake in . However the current situation and actual national response has been unique. By conscripting professional staff, building makeshift hospitals in shortest period of time, quickly isolating the virus, sequencing its genome, mobilizing various provinces and the army to help Hubei province, the country demonstrated its exceptional ability to get united and organized very quickly. Although the virus first appeared in China, it is not a national virus. Outbreak of the virus could happen anywhere on the planet. The disease doesnt recognize borders, regulations or rules, political or economic arrangements. The disease is the public enemy of all people around the world. It has now become the major test of the wisdom and capability of the international community to prevent and control the outbreak. Almost everybody around the world highly appreciates the countrys efficient measures to share crucial scientific information with all interested parties, being transparent with its efforts to stop the virus from spreading on a worldwide scale. China not only reveals its institutional advantage of quickly mobilizing enormous resources to fight the disease, but also demonstrates its aspiration to meet the common interests of the entire world. It was again a clear proof that in the era of globalization, all human beings are living in a small global settlement where they share the same wellbeing and obligations. By endorsing the idea of building a community with a shared future for mankind, China now is not only taking responsibility for the safety and health of its people, but also committed to the cause of safeguarding international public health. In this invisible war with the coronavirus where no weapons are used, the entire world has become a small community of common destiny. In times of crisis and viral epidemics, the world must engage in even closer cooperation. Unfortunately the country is spending some of its valuable resources on fighting against preconception, rumors and even racism from some politicians and media outlets. In general, the international reaction has been very positive, with a few exceptions, of course. Chinas deadly coronavirus could be good for U.S. jobs, manufacturing, said not a simple person from the street, but U.S. Commerce Secretary Mr. Ross. I was so sad to read his statement. It proved that the best responses to false statements shouldnt be the empty words, but quick and practical actions, and transparency. The challenges the outbreak has brought to the countrys economic and social development will be transitory. With its strong fundamentals, persistence and potential, the Chinese economy is well placed to overcome all challenges. The basic principles on which the country and its economy were built have not changed and will not change. Im sure that from that disease, China will emerge much stronger and even more united. The new coronavirus outbreak once again reminded us that the unilateral approach, nationalism and protectionism which are not in line with the interests of our world will not work in the era of globalization. Ignorance, prejudices, or selfish practices that disregard the interests of others will not be able to secure safety of people. Cooperation, solidarity and coordinated efforts are the only routes to protect the interests of the mankind. Current fight against the COVID is again a clear proof that the world is a community with a shared present and a shared future. My belief, that those are the values that should be followed by all. Since the onset of the coronavirus pneumonia, all nations have been working together in this nationwide battle. China has launched and is winning peoples war against the deadly disease to protect lives and health of all people on Earth. The author is the former prime minister of the Kyrgyz Republic and a distinguished professor of the Belt and Road School of Beijing Normal University. He is also a physics professor.