Chinas economic recovery reveals its resilience, dynamism
2020-07-03 14:18
Aerial photo taken on Oct , , shows a view of the Lujiazui area in Shanghai. PhotoXinhua    Strong economic recovery momentum reflects resilience and dynamism of the Chinese economy,CRI Online reported on Thursday. Chinas factory and service sector activities expanded in June as the economy continued to recover from the shocks generated by the COVID pandemic, data from the National Bureau of Statistics showed on Tuesday, the last day of the first half of the year. The countrys purchasing managers index for the manufacturing sector stood at . in June, up from . in May. The PMI for the nonmanufacturing sector came at . in June, rising from . in the previous month, according to the NBS. The data send positive signals and indicated the countrys economic recovery continues to gather momentum as supportive and precise government policies have helped the country to resume production smoothly and overcome difficulties amid the COVID pandemic. Dalian Shipbuilding Industry Groups production and operation have been stable and improved positively since the resumption of production. The shipbuilding group has not only delivered a ,ton superlarge crude oil vessel but also signed two super large crude oil ship construction contracts on the cloud. This is the ship owners additional order after signing four superlarge crude oil vessels with the group in November last year, Zhu Ping, project manager of the big ship group, said. Busy companies are the epitome of Chinas economic recovery and a series of data in May indicate that production is continuously improving. The data include the added value of industries above designated size has been increasing for two consecutive months, the profit growth rate of industrial enterprises has changed from negative to positive, and the production index of service industry has increased from falling to increasing. The litup cities are also a witness of Chinas economic recovery and more positive factors are seen as resumption of production, business and market with normalized epidemic prevention and control of COVID. The US Consumer News and Business Channel website quoted economists as saying that the Chinese economy is improving and there may be impressive growth in Chinas economic development. Strong and precise government supports, including tax and fee deduction and employment stabilization, to enterprises especially the small and micro businesses have helped many industrial and commercial households overcome difficulties. Half of  has passed, the first half is extremely difficult, and the second half needs to be forged ahead with results of a series of macropolicies to hedge the impact of the epidemic expected. Chinas economy has strong resilience and growth potential. The huge domestic market demand and perfect industrial chain will provide a solid foundation for Chinas economic development a number of incentive policies are being launched and will help the Chinese economy regain growth momentum, Lothar Herrmann, president and CEO for Greater China, Siemens AG, said.