Chinas confidence, capability will win battle against coronavirus epidemic Xi
2020-01-28 19:10
Chinese President Xi Jinping meets with visiting World Health Organization DirectorGeneral Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing, capital of China, Jan , . PhotoXinhua    China has full confidence and capability to win the battle of prevention and control against the outbreak of pneumonia caused by the novel coronavirus, President Xi Jinping said on Tuesday. Xi made the remarks while meeting with Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, directorgeneral of the World Health Organization at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing. The Chinese people right now are faced with a very serious battle. And for the Chinese government, this is something that we take very seriously, because in our view, nothing matters more than peoples safety and health for us, Xi said. Xi mentioned that on Saturday, the very first day of the Chinese Lunar New Year, the Standing Committee of the Political Bureau of the Communist Party of China Central Committee convened a special meeting on the outbreak of the disease. And that tells you how seriously the CPC is taking this issue and what a priority it is for us, Xi said, adding that the CPC also has established a Central Committee leading group on responding to the disease outbreak.All the Chinese people and government at all different levels are fighting the very serious battle against the epidemic, Xi said. With strong resolve, a scientific approach and tailormade policies, China will be able to prevail over this outbreak, he added. Noting that the WHO has been playing a positive role in coping with public health and safety issues, Xi said China looks forward to continuing positive cooperation with the WHO to share information about the epidemic. Tedros spoke highly of the measures taken by China on dealing with the disease, including sharing information internationally. And the other important element is the political commitment and your personal leadership, which we have been following, Tedros said to Xi. Chinas political commitment and the countrys serious measures will help stop the spread of the virus, he said, adding that the WHO appreciated Xis very strong leadership and that China will finally win the battle against the epidemic. The WHO firmly supports the measures taken by the Chinese government to fight against the epidemic, and it would like to enhance communication and cooperation with China, he said.