ChinaEurope cargo trains drive Belt and Road cooperation
2020-09-14 16:24
A crane loads containers at Erenhot Port in North Chinas Inner Mongolia autonomous region on April , . PhotoXinhua    BEIJING  After a ChinaEurope cargo train left east Chinas Jinhua for Baku in Azerbaijan on Thursday, an inbound train carrying  containers of polyethylene arrived in the coastal city of Xiamen the next day. With the new JinhuaBaku route, the number of ChinaEurope Central Asia freight train routes starting in Jinhua, Zhejiang province, has increased to . The train from Russias Tobolsk was the first return train fully loaded with bonded cargo to Xiamen, Fujian province. As the coronavirus pandemic severely hits international transport, the ChinaEurope freight trains play a pivotal role in land transport among countries, as shown by the rising number of trains, opening of new routes, and the volume of goods. The ChinaEurope freight trains, first launched in  in the southwestern Chinese metropolis of Chongqing, are running more frequently than ever this year ensuring trade and transport of epidemic prevention materials in both directions. They have been an important part of the Belt and Road Initiative proposed by China in . By the end of July, the ChinaEurope cargo train service had delivered , tonnes of goods for epidemic prevention, providing strong support to international COVID control efforts, data from the China State Railway Group Co Ltd showed. The number of ChinaEurope freight trains hit a record high of , in August, up  percent year on year, transporting , TEUs of goods, an increase of  percent. Outbound trains carry goods like daily necessities, equipment, medical supplies and vehicles while inbound trains transport milk powder, wine and automobile parts among other products. By Aug , Xian, a major city on the Silk Road Economic Belt, had launched , freight trains this year, transporting a total of . million tonnes of goods, . times and . times the number and volume respectively of the same period last year. Xian, the provincial capital of Shaanxi province, has  international trunk freight train lines, covering  countries and regions in central Asia, western Asia and Europe. During the epidemic, the ChinaEurope freight train service showed how it could promote winwin situation that would be mutually beneficial. It also highlighted the principle of extensive consultation, joint contribution and shared benefits embodied by the Belt and Road Initiative, said Chinese foreign ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian on Thursday. The ChinaEurope freight train has not only delivered to European countries antiepidemic materials and daily necessities that are in short supply, but also shipped a large number of quality foreign products to China. This is conducive to the resumption of production and the rapid economic restart of countries along the Belt and Road, providing a strong impetus to the stability of global industrial and supply chains, and bringing new opportunities for the recovery and development of the global economy, Zhao said. A number of Chinese provinces and regions have reported growth in foreign trade with Belt and Road countries. The ChinaEurope trains have accelerated the citys opening up, said Li Mingyuan, mayor of Xian. In the first half of this year, Xians foreign trade grew . percent to reach . billion yuan about . billion. In the first seven months, central Chinas Henan province saw its trade with Belt and Road countries increase by . percent year on year to reach  billion yuan. Trade between the eastern province of Shandong and countries along the Belt and Road hit . billion yuan, up . percent year on year, accounting for . percent of the provinces total foreign trade. Good connectivity is a hugely important factor facilitating growth in international trade. We believe that much of Chinas experience in terms of improving connectivity can be replicated elsewhere, to the benefit of trade, companies and local economies, said Jens Eskelund, vice chairman of European Chamber of Commerce in China and managing director of Maersk China Limited. According to Chinas Ministry of Commerce, from January to July, the nonfinancial direct investment of Chinese companies in countries along the Belt and Road reached . billion, up . percent year on year.