Victory over virus can be won by joint efforts
2020-03-10 07:48
MA XUEJINGCHINA DAILY    China and Portugal will continue to promote pragmatic cooperation in all areas while carrying out coordinated epidemic prevention and control measures Since the COVID outbreak, China has taken the most comprehensive and rigorous measures to prevent and control the epidemic, taking a highly responsible attitude toward peoples lives and health. President Xi Jinping has directed the battle against the virus, and the Chinese people quickly launched a nationwide campaign to prevent and control the epidemic. At present, the spread of the epidemic has been contained for the moment, and initial progress has been made in prevention and control. Portugal is one of the countries that is most friendly and open to China and a best friend and partner of China in the European Union. Since the epidemic broke out, condolences and support have been sent from the Portuguese government and society to China and the Chinese people, demonstrating the sincere friendship between the two peoples. President Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa wrote a letter to President Xi, wishing China a major victory in resolutely controlling the epidemic, preventing the spread of the virus and ultimately eradicating the epidemic. Portuguese Minister of Science, Technology and Higher Education Manuel Heitor, Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs and Cooperation Teresa Ribeiro and General Secretary of the Portuguese Communist Party Jernimo de Sousa highly praised the Chinese governments efforts to fight against the epidemic, especially its close cooperation with the international community and its comprehensive, stringent epidemic prevention and control measures, which have made immeasurable contributions to the prevention of the spread of the virus in the world. DirectorGeneral of Portuguese Administration of Health Gra?a Freitas said publicly that the strict and effective prevention and control measures taken by the Chinese government have gone far beyond the requirements of the World Health Organization. The Chinese who came to Portugal recently insisted on home quarantine and established a support mechanism to help each other, which far exceeded the requirements of the Portuguese health and medical institutions. These actions can only be described as noble. The Lisbon municipal government has unanimously passed the initiative of solidarity with the Chinese community in Portugal, expressing support for the Chinese community in Portugal and calling for the rejection of any discriminatory words and actions targeted at any specific countries and groups. After the outbreak, many friendly Portuguese people actively supported China. Rector of the University of Coimbra Amlcar Falc?o, VicePresident of the University of Porto Jo?o Veloso and Professor Virginia Trigo of the University of Lisbon, spoke highly of Chinas prevention and control of the epidemic and expressed their support to Chinese students, through letters or videos, saying that no other country in the world could accomplish such a task except China. A giant banner with Go China, we are with you together in Chinese was displayed at the matches of the Portuguese Professional Football League. Chinese and Portuguese youths made a video saying I love China, I love Portugal to express the solidarity and cooperation between the two peoples in the fight against the epidemic. Countless ordinary Portuguese people have also paid tribute and thanks to the Chinese people for their efforts and sacrifices in responding to the outbreak by calling, sending emails and leaving online messages to the Chinese embassy in Portugal. A friend in need is a friend indeed. The integrity, kindness, courage and love shown by our Portuguese friends at this moment is touching and admirable. Since the outbreak, the Chinese side has always maintained close communication with the Portuguese authorities, updated the Portuguese side timely on prevention and control measures, and assisted the Portuguese citizens evacuated from Wuhan. The Chinese embassy in Portugal has also required Chinese citizens in Portugal or visiting Portugal to actively follow the Portuguese prevention and control measures and reminded the overseas Chinese in Portugal who had recently returned from China to quarantine themselves at home for  days, showing an attitude of strengthening international cooperation and being open, transparent and responsible. The work of the Chinese embassy has received strong support and positive response from the Portuguese government. Currently, the ChinaPortugal relationship is at the best it has ever been. This year marks the th anniversary of the establishment of the ChinaPortugal comprehensive strategic partnership. China and Portugal will continue to promote pragmatic cooperation in all areas within the framework of the Belt and Road Initiative while carrying out epidemic prevention and control cooperation at the same time. China is ready to work with Portugal and other countries in the world to deepen mutual trust and cooperation, fight against the epidemic and safeguard the life and health of the people of both countries and the world together, promoting the building of a community with a shared future for mankind. The author is the Chinese ambassador to Portugal. The author contributed this article to China Watch, a think tank powered by China Daily. The views do not necessarily reflect those of China Daily.