ChinaAfrica friendship valuable as gold
2020-02-17 17:20
Students from Nairobis Mathare slum hold placards in support of China during their solidarity with China parade. Photo provided to chinadaily.com.cn    Over , students from  primary and middle schools in Mathare Slums, Nairobi, capital of Kenya gathered at a square on Feb.  to show their support for China and Wuhan, epicenter of the novel coronavirus pneumonia outbreak. Holding banners reading We are together with you I love you, China and Together, we can defeat coronavirus, they expressed their deep friendship with the Chinese people. China and Africa, fighting side by side and sharing weal and woe, have forged a brotherly friendship of shared destiny. While the Chinese government and people are fighting the novel coronavirus epidemic, their African counterparts, as good friends, partners, and brothers, have expressed their sympathy and firm support for China in various ways. Leaders of many African countries have sent messages of sympathy to China. They highly evaluated Chinas effective measures of epidemic prevention and control, and sent hope that the Chinese people will overcome the difficulties. Recently, African foreign ministers attending the rd African Union AU summit made a unanimous voice to support the government and people of China for their efforts to control the spread of the novel coronavirus and its ramifications. AU Commission Chairman Moussa Faki Mahamat noted that at this moment, Africa feels what the Chinese people feel and stands with them with solidarity. China and Africa have always been a community with a shared future, and the African people will not just sit by and watch how the whole Chinese nation is fighting against the epidemic. Equatorial Guinea has donated  million to China the government of Ghana has sent , pieces of N masks to Wuhan and staffs at the at headquarters and branches of Standard Bank Group of South Africa wore red outfits to show support for China. In addition, a foreign student from the Republic of Benin named Glele Aho Letonghan volunteered to join the emergency team at Jinxian Hospital in southeast Chinas Jiangxi province, and Munyaradzi Gurure, a foreign student at Guangxi University of Finance and Economics from South Africa, started serving as a volunteer to disinfect the train station of Yulin, south Chinas Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region. Such assistance offered by African countries and people is warm and sincere, demonstrating the priceless relations between the two sides. Such relations were forged at critical moments. After the Ebola virus raged throughout West Africa in March , some western countries closed their embassies in three virushit countries and evacuated diplomats and nationals. The Chinese government was among the first to offer help, deploying  charter flights to deliver emergency supplies and sending over , medics to the epidemic areas. Chinese embassies, diplomats and medical experts stayed there with the African people. They fought side by side with the African people day and night until the final victory against the Ebola epidemic was achieved. This has left a deep impression for the African people, and explains what real friendship is. Now, when China encounters a hard time because of the novel coronavirus, its African friends have sent messages of sympathy to express their support and care for China and the Chinese people, and extended their gratitude for Chinas selfless assistance for them to get through hardships. The heartfelt words demonstrate their sincere ties with China, and will be honored in the history of ChinaAfrica friendship. The mutual assistance offered by China and Africa through good times and bad has always been shining like gold. Such a friendship is deeply rooted in the hearts of the Chinese and Africans, as a solid foundation and inexhaustible strength for the building of a closer ChinaAfrica community with a shared future.