China, South Korea relations move from strength to strength
2020-11-29 13:44
Chinese State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi R meets with Lee Haechan, former prime minister of South Korea, Seoul, South Korea, November , . PhotoXinhua    Editors note Hannan Hussain is a foreign affairs commentator and author. He is a Fulbright recipient at the University of Maryland U.S. and a former assistant researcher at the Islamabad Policy Research Institute. The article reflects the authors opinions, and not necessarily the views of CGTN. November  marked the end of Chinese State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yis threeday visit to South Korea, where a multipronged agenda for strengthening cooperation took center stage. A tenpoint consensus, ranging from COVID prevention and free trade advancement to peace imperatives in the Korean Peninsula, underscored the value of joint cooperation between Seoul and Beijing, and the centrality of this relationship to regional peace at large. On the pivotal question of upholding denuclearization imperatives in the Korean Peninsula, both sides committed to a constructive template for longterm stability. ROK and the DPRK are indeed the true masters of the Korean Peninsula. Therefore, the fate of the peninsula should be given to the two countries, said Wang during his meeting with the Speaker of South Koreas National Assembly Park Byeongseug. Beijings support for a constructive peace process rests on the furtherance of dialogue between Seoul and Pyongyang, affording the process continuity and ownership among both parties  free of external interference. Open endorsement of communication on the Korean Peninsula is also an important service to the cause of regional peace, as this makes it possible for Seoul to formally communicate its determinants of regional denuclearization to Pyongyang, and consider Pyongyangs reconciliation imperatives in the same diplomatic spirit. Chinas neighborly proximity to both partners speaks to its longstanding support for negotiated political settlements in the region, and its understanding with South Korea to keep the Korean peace process inherently constructive. On bilateral trade and diplomacy, both countries take a panoramic view of future opportunities. Consider their decision to constitute a committee on the future development of ChinaSouth Korea relations, ahead of their th anniversary of bilateral relations. The platform is an important step to reinforcing the value of forwardlooking diplomacy in the coming decades, especially when respective pillars of growth such as Chinas Belt and Road Initiative BRI and Seouls New Deal development vision demand integrated engagement beyond a shortterm focus. In the same context, opting for the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership RCEPs early entry into force offers a contemporary reading on winwin cooperation in East Asia. It serves as a lucrative access point for thirdparty markets and emerging industries as envisioned by both leaderships during the visit. Moreover, as two countries wishing to maximize their contributions to free trade and multilateralism, RCEPs foreign direct investment FDI trends alone render South Korea and Chinas advocacy for its early implementation as vital. This investment impetus is captured in a November global investment report by the United Nations, where FDI contributions to RCEP have increased by almost every year during the last decade. The same report points to Beijing and Seouls contributions in powering intraregional investment under RCEP through their capitalexporting growth models. As a result, agreeing to maintain such favorable trade trajectory during the pandemic is a reason for optimism on several other fronts, such as seeking to advance trilateral free trade agreement negotiations with Tokyo, concluding the phasetwo of the ChinaSouth Korea Free Trade Agreement FTA, and getting a headstart on the much anticipated Joint Plan for ChinaSouth Korea Economic and Trade Cooperation . Interestingly, to further deepen bilateral cooperation between both countries, Wangs trip to Seoul also developed a promising context for Chinese President Xi Jinpings prospective state visit, which is well in line with South Koreas ongoing fight to contain its COVID surge. My visit to South Korea is intended to show the importance we attach to ChinaSouth Korea relations through actual action and to show confidence that South Korea can prevail in its fight over COVID, assured Wang, before formally endorsing a dedicated platform for health and epidemic prevention in Northeast Asia. The same spirit of deepening cooperation took on immediate priorities, captured by the launch of the  dialogue on diplomatic and security affairs. This exercise spotlights the power of traditional, direct diplomacy in accurately gauging official positions on peace and security challenges, without allowing bilateral intent to be characterized through the strategic alignment lens. On top of these diplomatic gains, a mutually agreed opening for maritime dialogue and highlevel foreign ministry interactions, qualify as a major plus to furthering the spirit of collective cooperation. Ultimately, Wangs Seoul visit  in the midst of a COVID surge  speaks to the vitality and resilience of ChinaSouth Korea relations at a time of global uncertainty. The success of both leaderships in navigating geopolitical transitions, committing to a rulesbased order, and reciprocating each anothers sovereign expectations on development, serves as a model for practical diplomacy across the region.