China, South Korea reach consensuses on antiepidemic effort, allround cooperation
2020-11-26 21:16
Visiting Chinese State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi touches elbows with South Korean Foreign Minister Kang Kyungwha after their talks in Seoul, South Korea, Nov. , .?PhotoXinhua    SEOUL  China and South Korea should enhance cooperation in fighting the COVID pandemic, further develop bilateral ties and strengthen multilateral coordination and cooperation, visiting Chinese State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi said here on Thursday. Wang, who arrived here late on Wednesday, made the remarks at a meeting with South Korean Foreign Minister Kang Kyungwha during his threeday visit to South Korea. Kang, for her part, said that the South KoreaChina strategic cooperative partnership has maintained positive development momentum in recent years. Both countries have worked hand in hand to combat COVID, setting a good example for the international community. South Korea is looking forward to strengthening communication and coordination with China on issues such as addressing climate change, upholding multilateralism and free trade, she added. During the meeting, China and South Korea agreed that under the strategic guidance of the two leaders, both countries should strengthen communication and exchanges, enhance friendship and mutual trust, deepen practical cooperation so as to elevate ChinaSouth Korea strategic cooperative partnership to a higher level, according to the Chinese foreign ministry. Both sides agreed to strengthen joint prevention and control of COVID, improve and gradually expand the application of the fasttrack entry and promote building the antiepidemic cooperation mechanism in Northeast Asia. Both sides agreed to establish a committee for future development of ChinaSouth Korea relations and map out a plan for developing the bilateral ties for the next  years as the year of  marks the th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic ties between China and South Korea. Both sides agreed to launch ChinaSouth Korea  dialogue on diplomacy and security, launch ChinaSouth Korea dialogue on maritime affairs and hold a new round of highlevel strategic dialogue between foreign ministries of China and South Korea. Both sides agreed to launch the Year of Cultural Exchange between China and South Korea in  and  and make preparations for celebrating the th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic ties between the two countries. Both sides agreed to accelerate the docking of the Belt and Road Initiative BRI with South Koreas development strategies, push forward cooperation in thirdparty market, and strengthen cooperation in such key areas as emerging industries. Both sides agreed to conclude the second phase of ChinaSouth Korea free trade agreement as soon as possible, issue the Joint Plan for ChinaSouth Korea Economic and Trade Cooperation  at an early date in a bid to create better conditions for bilateral economic and trade cooperation. Both sides agreed to support each other in hosting Beijing Winter Olympic Games and Gangwon Winter Youth Olympics and further step up peopletopeople exchanges after the pandemic is brought under effective control. Both sides agreed to work together to maintain peace and stability on the Korean Peninsula and advance the political settlement process of the Korean Peninsula issue. China firmly supports both Koreas in improving relations and promoting reconciliation and cooperation. Both sides agreed to work with the Japanese side to positively push forward the negotiations of ChinaJapanSouth Korea free trade agreement. China supports South Korea in hosting the th ChinaJapanROK Republic of Korea leaders meeting. Both sides agreed to work jointly for an early entry into force of the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership Agreement, safeguard multilateralism and free trade, promote building an open world economy and join hands in tackling global challenges such as climate change.