China urges US politicians to stop blaming other countries over COVID response spokesperson
2020-10-09 22:30
Chinas Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying. Photofmprc.gov.cn    BEIJING  China hopes certain US politicians will stop blaming other countries over responses to the COVID pandemic, as blaming others will not drive COVID away or save the sick, a Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesperson said Friday. Spokesperson Hua Chunyings remarks came after certain US politicians made accusations against China over the pandemic during a meeting in Tokyo with the foreign ministers of Japan, India and Australia. Hua noted that the st century is an era of globalization where the interests of all countries are deeply intertwined. She said that a closed and exclusive small circle is not conducive to enhancing mutual trust and cooperation, especially at a time when the international community is jointly facing the major and urgent tasks of coping with the COVID pandemic and promoting global economic recovery. It is hoped that relevant countries will bear in mind the common interests of all countries and mankind, focus on strengthening cooperation to combat the pandemic, and create a peaceful environment and cooperation opportunities for global economic recovery. That serves the common interests of all countries, Hua said. The timeline of Chinas fight against COVID is clear and Chinas antiepidemic efforts and achievements are obvious to all, Hua said. Chinas respect for science and fact, and its commitment to putting life and people first, have contributed to the countrys major strategic achievements in the fight against COVID. Noting that there are currently nearly . million confirmed cases of COVID and more than , cumulative deaths in the United States, Hua asked, As the worlds most powerful country with the best medical resources, why did the United States exhibit such a shocking response to the pandemic? Earlier, US media also reported that the earliest case of infection in the United States may have occurred in October last year. What has the United States done? Why wasnt the epidemic situation detected and reported in time? Why werent comprehensive detection and epidemic prevention measures taken in time? Hua asked. Isnt the loss of , lives enough to awaken the consciences of those American politicians? Hua asked. We hope certain US politicians will stop blaming other countries over responses to the COVID pandemic, as blaming others will not drive COVID away or save the sick, Hua said. Hua said that certain US politicians should cease their constant repetitions of lies, return to rationality, focus on dealing with the pandemic, and do their best to save American lives.