China united against new coronavirus
2020-02-10 14:50
A yearold girl holds a painting sending best wishes to the Chinese people in their fight against the novel coronavirus in Sao Paulo, Brazil on Feb , . PhotoXinhua    The  Spring Festival was very different for Chinese people. The outbreak of the new coronavirus, or nCoV, required attention, patience and close cooperation according to instructions given by authorities. As a result, numerous citizens have had to stay at home and cancel their holiday or business schedule for safety reasons. Despite these precautionary measures and the natural uncertainty about the evolution of the public health crisis, Chinese society has remained significantly united. This is perhaps Chinas most importantprofitin the last weeks. Even under extreme circumstances, the public is not disillusioned but determined to fight together with biologists, doctors and the government and tackle the problem. The Chinese leadership never looks for excuses, even if criticism against it in international media is sometimes unfair. The outbreak of the nCoV and its fast spread was due to a delay in the diagnosis of the virus and in the implementation of measures  mainly to forbid the immediate movement of persons from the city of Wuhanin central Chinas Hubei province. Despite flaws that are noted and will shape future actions, the general mobilization of the Chinese government has been impressive and is internationally acknowledged. The battle the Chinese government is waging is twofold. On the one hand, it supports patients. The construction of a hospital in only a few days in Wuhan is a strong example of this. This support also includes efforts to test medicines that can be effective and to develop a vaccine. Meanwhile, the Chinese government provides financial support to people and companies suffering economic losses due to the disruption of their activities. Several Chinese cities have already decided to bailout small companies. As far as the international reaction is concerned, there are countries which do help China with donations. Daily briefings in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs refer to specific cases along with the gratitude of the authorities appreciating support in difficult times. A remarkable one is Japan which has sent masks, goggles, protective suits and other supplies for epidemic prevention and control. Further to this, in his  State of the Union address, President Donald Trump spoke about coordination of actions with China. Sadly, incidents of racism and xenophobia against Chinese citizens and people with Asian characteristics have also occurred. Panic fueled by media reports lead individuals to occasionally show an unacceptable attitude. Blocking entry to specific places due to fear of infection, for example, reminds us of grim practices of the past. It is certainly positive that there are journalists across the world who stigmatize this behavior and warn about the impact of the production of prejudices. It is more likely for people in Europe  where racist incidents occurred  to be infected by seasonal influenza thanby nCoV. While rumors and malign coverage are not a rare phenomenon, China has already achieved a lot. Public health scholars explain mortality rates of other diseases  such as the  HN flu  had been much higher in comparison to nCoV. For its part, the World Health Organization is praising the efforts by the Chinese government and is refraining from announcing extreme measures as opposed to the overreaction of a few countries. DirectorGeneral Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus recently expressed his confidence that Chinese actions would prevail over the epidemic. Chinese citizens deserve an embrace to boost their morale in these critical days. Human values are still existing, arent they? So, the Chinese society should know it is not alone in this battle. People are not viruses and a disease does not discriminate. The new coronavirus is an international problem, not a Chinese one. And the victory against the novel coronavirus will be a global one, not a Chinese per se.