Vice premier meets HKSAR chief executive
2020-11-06 21:05
Vice Premier Han Zheng meets with Chief Executive of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region HKSAR Carrie Lam in in Beijing, Nov , . PhotoXinhua    BEIJING  Vice Premier Han Zheng on Friday met with Chief Executive of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region HKSAR Carrie Lam in Beijing. Han, also a member of the Standing Committee of the Political Bureau of the Communist Party of China Central Committee, met Lam at the Diaoyutai State Guesthouse. Han said since the beginning of this year, the HKSAR government under the leadership of Lam has made remarkable achievements in its active efforts to control the COVID epidemic, stabilize the economy, address peoples concerns, firmly implement the national security law for Hong Kong and safeguard Hong Kongs stability. Han said he hoped Hong Kong would make epidemic response a top priority, strictly enforce regular epidemic containment measures, and coordinate epidemic prevention and control with economic recovery. Han called for greater coordination and planning, addressing the immediate needs of Hong Kong residents while setting clear goals to gradually resolve the bottlenecks hindering Hong Kongs longterm development. Hong Kong should seize the new opportunities brought by the countrys entering of a new development stage, give full play to its unique advantages in building a new development pattern, and actively integrate into the overall development of the country, Han said. The central government fully supports anything that is conducive to maintaining Hong Kongs longterm prosperity and stability, enhancing the wellbeing of Hong Kong compatriots and promoting the integrated development of the mainland and Hong Kong, he added. Lam expressed sincere appreciation of the central governments strong support for Hong Kongs development and pledged to make good use of the central governments supporting measures, seize the major opportunities brought by the motherlands development, and promote Hong Kongs economic development and improve peoples livelihood. Xia Baolong was present at Fridays meeting.