China to push forward Shanghai Spirit
2021-08-24 07:04
A journalist views D products at the Smart China Expo  in Chongqing, on Sunday. The expo, which runs from Monday to Wednesday, aims to promote exchanges in smart technologies and international cooperation in the smart industry. WANG QUANCHAOXINHUA    Xi calls for SCO members to deeply engage in international cooperation on digital economy President Xi Jinping sent a letter on Monday congratulating the ChinaShanghai Cooperation Organization Forum on the Digital Economy Industry and Smart China Expo , which both opened in Chongqing. In the letter, Xi said that as the world is entering a period featuring the rapid development of the digital economy, new technologies, business patterns and platforms such as G, artificial intelligence and smart cities are booming and profoundly affecting global scientific innovation, industrial restructuring and socioeconomic development. In recent years, China has been actively promoting digital industrialization and industrial digitization and has been pushing forward the deep integration of digital technologies with economic and social development, Xi said. Since this year marks the th anniversary of the founding of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization, Xi also said that China stands ready to carry forward the Shanghai Spirit with all SCO members to deeply engage in international cooperation on the digital economy. Digitization, networking and intelligence should provide more momentum for economic and social development, thus creating a new chapter for digital economy cooperation, Xi said. SCO SecretaryGeneral Vladimir Norov and dignitaries from participating countries took part in the opening ceremony and main forum online, during which they delivered speeches. Norov praised Chinas openness in sharing its experience in developing the digital economy and called for more targeted cooperation among SCO countries in the fields of innovation, crossborder ecommerce, digital skills training, skills cultivation and elearning. According to the white paper Digital Economy Development in China,? Chinas digital economy in  had reached  trillion yuan  trillion, accounting for  percent of its GDP, effectively supporting the countrys epidemic prevention and control efforts and economic development. The SCO region represents about half of the worlds population. For the SCO, Chinas rich experience in the development of the digital economy and crossborder ecommerce is very valuable, Norov said. A statement on the development of the digital economy was adopted at the th meeting of the Council of Heads of State of the SCO in November. According to the statement, strengthening practical cooperation to promote the digital economy would be conducive to enhancing the technological competitiveness of SCO member states and enhancing socioeconomic wellbeing. More than  companies are participating in the events in Chongqing, both online and offline. Overall digital transformation is a must for economic development in the new era, Li Shufu, chairman of Geely Holding Group, the parent company of Volvo and a major stakeholder in Mercedes parent company Daimler, said at the event.