China to prioritize stability in monetary policy, avoid sudden shifts in
2021-01-15 22:23
Peoples bank of China. PhotoSipa    BEIJING  China will prioritize stability in its monetary policy and avoid making sudden shifts in , said Chen Yulu, vice governor of the Peoples Bank of China PBOC, the countrys central bank, on Friday. The countrys prudent monetary policy will be more flexible, precise, reasonable and moderate in , Chen told a press conference. China will ensure that the growth of broad money supply and social financing basically matches nominal economic growth, aiming to provide support for economic recovery and highquality development with moderate money supply growth, he added. In the face of COVID epidemic impacts in , China continued to implement prudent monetary policy and stayed away from using measures such as quantitative easing, said Chen, adding that it has hedged the high uncertainties of the macro situation since the epidemic and kept the financial operation basically stable. China will use a comprehensive range of monetary policy tools including reserve requirement ratio, relending and rediscount, mediumterm lending facility and open market operations to maintain liquidity at a reasonably ample level, Chen said. He added that the country will give full play to the drip irrigation function of monetary policy tools and step up efforts to effectively support the real economy, while providing more financial support to technological innovation, small and microsized businesses, and green development. Chinas weighted average corporate lending rate was . percent at the end of , down . percentage points from the previous year, and the target that financial institutions save enterprises . trillion yuan about  billion was achieved, according to the PBOC. To bolster the real economy, the central bank introduced the loan extension support tool and credit loan support tool. In , Chinas banking sector deferred . trillion yuan of loans repayment and issued a total of . trillion yuan of the inclusive credit loans for small and micro businesses, an increase of . trillion yuan year on year, official data showed. Last year, the PBOC also offered a billionyuan loan via its relending program and a .trillionyuan relending and rediscounted quota, supporting more than , enterprises affected by the epidemic, said Chen. The central bank will strengthen financial support for small and microsized businesses in , Chen added. It will also strive to keep consumer prices stable while preventing big fluctuations in the countrys asset prices through macroprudential policies, Chen said. He warned against external risks arising from fluctuations in the international financial markets and crossborder capital flow as well as potential increase in debt risks of lowincome countries. Facing these challenges, China will focus on its domestic agenda and strengthen its economic fundamentals while enhancing its ability to forestall systemic risks, Chen said, adding that the country will also strengthen macroeconomic policy coordination with other countries to promote global recovery. When asked about the trend of RMB exchange rate, Sun Guofeng, head of monetary policy department of the PBOC, told the press conference that twoway fluctuations in the yuan will become normal. The yuan gained . percent against the U.S. dollar in , Sun said, adding the exchange rate depends on factors including domestic and foreign economic situations, balance of payments and changes in the international foreign exchange market. He stressed that the central bank will keep the yuan basically stable at a reasonable and balanced level.