China stepping up efforts to provide test kits
2020-04-01 10:56
Technicians conduct sample tests at a HuoYan laboratory established by genomics sequencing company BGI Group in Wuhan, capital of Hubei province, on Feb . Photo by?Zhou ChaoAsia News Photo    Local producers ramp up production and exports as the pandemic fight outside the nation faces shortages of key materials As COVID spreads around the world, it is of paramount importance to test people in a timely manner to detect infections and formulate responses. Thanks to muchimproved research and development capabilities, Chinese companies were able to develop nucleic acid test kits quickly in January, soon after Chinese scientists published the genomic sequence of the virus, and then developed antibody tests later in February. They were also able to produce test kits in large volumes to help the country deal with the disease properly due to solid manufacturing capacity, industry experts said. While the contagions spread in China has already been effectively contained, a lack of test kits is becoming an issue in many other countries. Chinese test kit producers have ramped up production and exports, eyeing increasing overseas demand. Xu Shan, secretarygeneral of the China Association for Medical Devices Industry, estimated that more than  Chinese companies have obtained CE marking by the European Union for their novel coronavirus test kits, or the permits for the products commercial launch in the EU and other markets recognizing the designation. By March , more than  Chinese in vitro diagnostic device producers had obtained the designation, which is also widely recognized in Southeast Asia, Central Asia and Africa, according to the Professional Community of Experimental Medicine, a national industry organization under the National Association of Health Industry and Enterprise Management. The virus test kits of several Chinese companiesincluding BGI Group and Hunan provincebased Sansure Biotech Inchave also become commercially available in the United States, with updated guidance from the United States Food and Drug Administration issued on March . The new policy allows eligible use of qualified products in clinical testing for the novel coronavirus before they have been officially approved or granted emergency use authorization by the FDA. Previously, some Chinese companies submitted requests to the FDA for such authorization, which permits use of unapproved medical products or unapproved uses of approved medical products in a declared emergency to diagnose, treat or prevent serious or lifethreatening diseases or conditions. Shi Lichen, founder of Beijing Dingchen Consultancy, said its very impressive that Chinese companies successfully developed an array of virus test kits in a very short time following the outbreak, and they are wellprepared to meet domestic and overseas demand. Xu said recent messages from foreign trade associations and institutions seeking to purchase test kits often accumulate in a few hours as infections spike overseas. A WeChat group has been set up by the association to help link Chinese test kit providers with overseas buyers. Chinese companies didnt hesitate to develop test kits when the outbreak occurred, and they have made tremendous contributions to COVID prevention and control in China. It makes sense that foreign countries with soaring testing demand are now seeking imports from China, she said. Multinational companies took relatively more time to make decisions and produce products due to the large size of their organizations, and perhaps also because the outbreak first occurred in China, she added. Wang Sizhen, cofounder and CEO of Genetron Holdings Ltda Beijingbased precision oncology companysaid he is very impressed with the capability Chinese companies have demonstrated during the COVID struggle. Wang cited one example. By Feb , nearly  Chinese companies had joined a campaign initiated a day earlier to suspend some ongoing businesses and scientific research programs so that resourcesincluding laboratories, devices, capital and personnelcould be used to accelerate infection detection and control of the COVID outbreak. Chinese companies acted quickly based on their experience and capacity accumulated over the past two decades, especially in the IVD sectoran area that features interdisciplinary RD, manufacturing and laboratory applications involving biology, physics, chemistry, materials, optoelectronics and genetics, he added. The National Medical Products Administration said it had approved  nucleic acid test kits and eight antibody test kits as of March . BGI Group developed two of the first four diagnostic tests that received emergency approval from the NMPA on Jan  for the novel coronavirus. A subsidiary of BGI Group, BGI Genomics produced realtime fluorescent RTPCR kits for specific testing of novel coronavirus. The kits received CEIVD marking on Feb . The company announced on March  that it had received the FDAs formal EUA. The PMseq metagenomics sequencing kits using BGI Groups combinatorial probeanchor synthesis sequencing technology can rapidly detect viral sequences to identify and diagnose novel and other coronaviruses. In addition, another subsidiary of BGI Group, MGIs ultrahighthroughput DNBSEQT sequencing system and analysis software, also received NMPA certification as Class III medical device to support future epidemic prevention and control efforts. The genetic system can complete the entire novel coronavirus detection processfrom sample extraction to diagnosiswithin  hours. More importantly, it can process  to  samples per run and deliver  megabytes of data per sample, ensuring extremely high virus detection accuracy as well as information on viral mutations, which is of great use in current and future clinical and epidemiological research in battling COVID. BGI Group has also rapidly scaled up manufacturing following the COVID outbreak. By March , its total output of realtime fluorescent RTPCR kits was capable of testing . million samples, and the test kits had been distributed to more than  countries and regions around the world, with international orders for more than  million tests. In China, BGI had performed over , tests in its laboratories as of March , including , in Shenzhen, Guangdong province. Sansure Biotech, one of the first six companies China approved to sell detection kits for the coronavirus, is operating at full capacity. With a daily production capacity of , test kits, the company has distributed its products to more than  countries and regions to help curb the contagion, including donations to countries such as Ethiopia, Kenya, Sweden and Sierra Leone. Wangs company, which has expertise in genetic solutions for cancer treatment, has a detection kit for novel coronavirus using PCRfluorescence probing that received CE marking in late March. It has also developed a new lower respiratory tract aerosol particle sampler that is pending approval. It will help alleviate two common problems of nucleic acid testslow viral load in throat swab samples and high risk of exposing medical staff to infection. The company has donated a Genetron S sequencer and supporting instruments to a hospital in Wuhan, Hubei province. It can perform accurate molecular tests of clinical samples to yield comprehensive genomic data to help monitor mutations of the coronavirus, formulate preventive measures and develop related diagnostic kits, vaccines and drug treatment. Chinese biotech and IVD companies invested heavily into the development and production of new test kits and genetic devices for rapid pathogen detection, even when a lack of testing resources hindered prevention and control of COVID in China. It is great that their products can help other countries fight the contagion, Wang said. However, Shi said it is important for Chinese companies to establish efficient overseas sales networks to better distribute products, especially because many of them lack experience in overseas markets as the domestic market has traditionally been their priority.