Vaping ban urged on US teenagers
2021-10-12 10:21
More than  million teenagers in the United States say they regularly use electronic cigarettes despite widespread warnings that they are unsafe, a survey has found, prompting calls by antitobacco organizations for federal help to ban or regulate the sale of the addictive products to young adults.The figures from the  National Youth Tobacco Survey, a poll carried out annually by the US Food and Drug Administration and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, found that around  percent of middle school and high school students said they enjoyed smoking fruitflavored ecigarettes.In the survey carried out between January and May this year, . percent of teenagers in high school said they used ecigarettes frequently on  out of  days, and . percent vaped daily.Most reported that studying remotely amid the coronavirus pandemic caused no problems in purchasing the products, according to CNN.Lisa Lacasse, president of the American Cancer Society Cancer Action Network said in a statement This study shows yet again the urgent need for federal action to address the nations youth ecigarette epidemic.Flavored tobacco products of all kinds, including those flavored with menthol, enable the tobacco industry to entice and hook another generation of users on their deadly productsno less, a generation who was on track to be the first tobaccofree generation. We have known for years about this danger and still the FDA continues to delay taking definitive actiondespite a court ordered deadlineon some of the biggest brands and manufacturers of these products.At least . percent . million of high school students and an estimated . percent , of middle school students reported current ecigarette use, the survey found.Real riskMatthew Myers, president of the Campaign for TobaccoFree Kids, said in a statement As kids return to school, we face the real risk of a resurgence of the youth ecigarette epidemic unless the FDA quickly eliminates all flavored ecigarettes. With  percent of youth ecigarette users using flavors, our kids will remain in jeopardy as long as any flavored products remain on the market.The survey report found Approximately . million youths were estimated to be current ecigarette users in . Use of tobacco products by youths in any form, including ecigarettes, is unsafe. Most ecigarettes contain nicotine, and nicotine exposure during adolescence can harm the developing brain.Robin Koval, CEO of the Truth Initiative, a national public health organization dedicated to achieving a culture where all young people reject smoking, vaping and nicotine also has called on the FDA to speed up regulations of the market.The FDA has not yet made a decision on regulating vape products.In July , a federal court ordered that ecigarette makers must apply to the FDA for approval to sell their products.The makers of ecigarettes were given a deadline of Sept , , to submit their applications for the agencys authorization.In the meantime, ecigarettes have been widely sold with no official stamp of approval by the FDA.