China sees acceleration in work resumption after Spring Festival holiday
2021-02-24 16:29
Employees work on the production line of Changan Auto in Heifei on Feb , . PhotoXinhua    HEFEIXIANTAIYUAN  Moving back and forth on an automobile assembly line, Zhang Tianshun was conducting function tests for vehicles before they roll off the production line. My job is to check the functionality of seven parts of the car, including four windows, front and rear wipers and the sunroof. It takes two minutes to test a car for my part, and I need to handle about  cars per day. Its even busier than before the holiday, said the young man. It was the first time for Zhang to spend the Spring Festival, or Chinas Lunar New Year, away from his hometown of Zhumadian city, Central Chinas Henan province. The yearold works at Hefei Changan Automobile Co Ltd in East Chinas Anhui province. Zhang received a combined subsidy of nearly , yuan about  from Hefei city and the company for not leaving during the holiday. To prevent the sporadic resurgence of COVID, China encouraged people to stay put over the holiday this year, which lasted from Feb  to . Earlier work resumption The car plant resumed production on Feb , after a threeday break, when most people were still celebrating the holiday. More than , employees, or  percent of its staff, clocked in on the first day of work, including over  migrant workers who stayed during the holiday. The manufacturing capacity has returned to the preholiday level, with  to  vehicles rolling off the production line per day, according to the company. Another production line resumed operation on Feb , whose capacity is around  units a day. Cars coming from this assembly line will be exported to Saudi Arabia, Chile and Brazil, said Xue Wen, an engineer with the company. Factories across China are traditionally shut down for a couple of weeks after the Chinese Spring Festival holiday. Thanks to the stayput measure, many enterprises were able to continue holiday production or resume production quickly after the holiday break. Like the auto factory, China Baowu Taigang Stainless Steel Precision Strip Co Ltd in North Chinas Shanxi province also saw bustling production activities during the holiday, with more than  employees remaining on duty around the clock to handle increasing orders. The company specializes in producing wide superthin precision stainless steel strips, or handtearable steel, which can be used in folding screens, solar photovoltaic substrates, automobile airbags, highend coating materials, as well as military and aerospace fields. During this Spring Festival, the company received a large order from abroad, greatly boosting the morale of employees, said Qu Zhanyou, director of the companys sales department. In the workshop of LONGi Solar Technology Co Ltd in Northwest Chinas Shaanxi province, over  skilled workers were busy manufacturing solar photovoltaic modules after the holiday to complete their orders on time. Solar modules of nearly  square meters were churned out after a dozen of steps including cutting, welding and pressing. The output is expected to reach , modules in February, up by about  percent compared with the same period of last year, said Xie Shundong, general manager of the companys Xian module plant. Bustling constructing activities Apart from boisterous producing activities, construction of new projects continued or started during the holiday across the country, injecting new impetus to Chinas economy. On Feb , the first workday after the holiday, Anhui announced that a total of  projects started construction in the province, with a total investment of over  billion yuan, of which . billion yuan is expected to be implemented this year, according to the provincial development and reform commission. The bustling construction scene can also be seen at the Hightech Zone of Xian, capital of Shaanxi province, where manufacturers and engineers were busy moving in and installing the equipment to make final preparations for a new Samsung semiconductor memory chip production line. The first phase of the project was put into production in , with an investment of more than  billion. Construction of the second phase of the project started in , with an investment of approximately  billion. More than , equipment manufacturers and engineers are adjusting equipment on site every day to prepare for the operation, said Sang Hyun Yi, vicepresident of Samsung China Semiconductor Co Ltd. With the help of the Chinese government, Samsungs memory chip project has withstood the test of the epidemic, achieving an output value of . billion yuan in , an increase of  percent from . During the epidemic, in order to ensure the smooth construction of the second phase of Samsungs memory chip project, Shaanxi province specially opened up a green channel for international chartered flights to receive more than , equipment installation engineers for Samsung. Since the beginning of this year, the first phase of the project has been operating smoothly. The second stage of the second phase is advancing steadily, which will come into mass production within the year. At present, all Chinese employees and foreign technical personnel have returned to their posts, Yi said.