China pledges material support for South Korea
2020-03-10 08:47
Women wearing masks to prevent contracting the coronavirus take a walk at a Han River park in Namyangju, South Korea, March , . PhotoAgencies    The first shipment of supplies donated by China to help South Koreas fight against the novel coronavirus epidemic will arrive in the country soon, Foreign Ministry spokesman Geng Shuang said on Monday. The Chinese government will provide , N masks,  million surgical masks, , medical protective suits and , test kits to South Korea, the country worst hit by the virus outside of China. According to Geng, some local governments in China, including those in Shanghai and Shandong province, have already donated supplies to fight the epidemic to their sister cities in South Korea, which had reported more than , infections as of Monday. Since the outbreak of the epidemic, the South Korean government and people have provided great help and support to China in fighting the virus and China is deeply grateful for this, Geng said. It is natural that China and South Korea, as close neighbors, stand together and assist each other amid difficulties, he said. Geng also clarified on Monday that the Chinese government did not impose any restrictions on the export of masks and related supplies as some foreign media have reported. Companies can carry out related business based on marketoriented principles, he said, but added that overseas purchasers may face some difficulties given that domestic demand is still high. China is willing to provide medical protective materials such as masks to other countries and join hands with them to finally win the fight against the epidemic, he added. Speaking at Mondays news conference, the ministry spokesman denounced the despicable practice of some US politicians who have stigmatized China and Wuhan by association with the novel coronavirus. The spokesmans remark came after US Secretary of State Mike Pompeos recent reference to the novel coronavirus as the Wuhan virus or Wuhan coronavirus. Geng also refuted Pompeos claim that the US response to the coronavirus outbreak was hampered by socalled incomplete data from China. The Chinese side has notified the World Health Organization and relevant countries and regions, including the US, of epidemic information in an open, transparent and responsible attitude since the epidemic outbreak, Geng said. Pompeos attempt to slander Chinas efforts against the epidemic will not succeed, he added.