China opposes politicizing COVID battle
2020-04-09 20:49
Workers make face masks at a workshop in Luyang district of Hefei, capital of East Chinas Anhui province, April , . PhotoXinhua    China opposes certain countries practice of politicizing its fight against the COVID pandemic by distorting facts and shirking responsibility, according to the Ministry of Commerce. China is willing to join hands with other countries and international organizations to deepen cooperation in pandemic prevention and control, said Gao Feng, the ministrys spokesman, at a regular press briefing on Thursday. The officials comments came after some foreign media reported the US government is considering taking legal action against China, accusing the country of restricting US manufacturers to export face masks and medical devices produced in their plants in China to its home market amid the outbreak. Gao said China hopes concerned countries and individual politicians will abandon such confrontational thinking and shoulder responsibilities, as well as strengthen cooperation with the international community, to overcome the epidemic together. As the COVID outbreak is the challenge of all mankind, China has been providing medical supplies to support countries in need to cut the spread of the virus and treat patients, Gao said. Chinese manufacturers have signed medical goods and material purchase contracts with  countries and regions, as well as four international organizations by Wednesday. The ministry said  countries and  international organization currently are negotiating with Chinese companies for the purchase of medical supplies. Gao also refuted media reports regarding medical goods exported from China to some European countries haves been found to have quality issues and said that China contacted and conducted quality tests with involved parties in Europe and domestic producers immediately after noticing the report. Gao said these reports are not consistent with the actual situation of the socalled problems, mainly due to differences in manufacturing standards and products applicable environment some European users are either not familiar with the function of these products or adopted the wrong method of application. According to the General Administration of Customs, from March  to Saturday, China exported . billion yuan . billion worth of epidemic prevention and control supplies, including . billion face masks, . million units of protective clothing, . million infrared thermometers, , ventilators, . million detection kits, and . million pairs of protective goggles.