China Import and Export Fair to enrich dualcirculation development paradigm
2021-09-15 07:40
A view of the China Import and Export Fair Complex in Guangzhou, capital of South Chinas Guangdong province, on June , . PhotoChina Daily    The upcoming th session of the China Import and Export Fair will enrich the nations dualcirculation development paradigm as well as new formats for foreign trade around the world, senior government officials said on Tuesday. The event, also known as the Canton Fair, will be held from Oct  to  in Guangzhou, the capital of Guangdong province, and feature online as well as offline activities for the first time. The twiceayear fair was held only virtually twice in  and once earlier this year because of the impact of the COVID pandemic. The fair will have the theme of dual circulation, a reference to Chinas new development paradigm, in which the domestic market is the mainstay and the domestic and overseas markets reinforce each other, said Ren Hongbin, viceminister of commerce. The fair aims to attract more overseas buyers from online platforms to help foreign trade companies gain new orders, he said, adding that measures to resume offline exhibitions will boost the enthusiasm of domestic buyers and support exportoriented companies in further exploring growth points in the home market. In addition to about , online exhibition booths for , domestic and international exhibitors, the fair will have an offline exhibition area of , square meters and cover  categories of products, from consumer goods to manufacturing machinery, according to the Ministry of Commerce. As Chinas foreign trade soared . percent yearonyear to . trillion yuan . trillion in the first eight months of the year, the nation is capable of reaching its goals for foreign trade with steady quantity growth and quality improvement this year, Ren said. Zhang Xin, Guangdongs vicegovernor, said that along with tightened epidemic prevention measures to ensure the smooth operation of the Canton Fair, the province will support the Qianhai cooperation zone in Shenzhen, the Nansha New Area in Guangzhou and the Hengqin cooperation zone in Zhuhai, as well as other key zones, to explore and implement more flexible investment and trade facilitation policies. It will also further promote efficient, convenient and orderly flow of personnel, goods, capital and information to boost its economy, Zhang said. While online and offline integration has become a new trend in exhibitions, the government found that the exhibition sector has been growing briskly since the second quarter of this year, said Chu Shijia, head of the Guangzhoubased China Foreign Trade Center. Assisted by digital technologies, online exhibitors are not only able to display images of their products, but also can make use of livestreaming, D technologies and virtual reality tools to demonstrate their goods, and can hold online video negotiations with potential buyers, he added. The China Import and Export Fair started in . It is the countrys largest and longestrunning comprehensive trade fair, and has the largest number of overseas buyers and product categories, according to the Ministry of Commerce.