China gets back to work as outbreak ebbs
2020-03-03 15:09
Staff works at the plant of Biokin Pharmaceutical in Chengdu, southwest Chinas Sichuan province, March , .?PhotoXinhua    Several regions in China have stepped up efforts to resume work and production amid the novel coronavirus epidemic, Peoples Daily reported. Promoting enterprises in lowrisk regions to resume production will not only provide strong guarantees for epidemic prevention and control, but also ensure peoples livelihoods, as well as fullyear economic targets. Presently, some regions in the country are turning pressures into opportunities, speeding up progress on some new projects and projects under construction and actively expanding domestic demand. In East Chinas Jiangsu province, a total of  projects under construction before Spring Festival have all resumed production. In order to reduce the effects of the epidemic to a minimum and promote highquality economic development, key projects are a ballast, an official from Jiangsu Development  Reform Commission told the newspaper. For Jiangsu province, promoting the construction of major projects was one of the most important measures to ensure a smooth economic cycle, the official added. Since Feb , a daily dispatch mechanism has been established to track the latest progress of this years  provincial major projects, with total investment of  billion yuan. As of Feb , Jiangsu has seen . percent of industrial enterprises resume operations. Among these, for , enterprises above designated size the rate was . percent. A total of . million people resumed work, accounting for  percent of the total. In southwestern Chinas Guizhou province, in order to win the battles of outbreak prevention and poverty alleviation, a notice was issued on Feb  to help enterprises resume operations in an orderly and safe manner. Earlier, a total of , checkpoints between urban and rural areas were removed to ensure smooth traffic. As of Feb , all checkpoints set up on the provincial boundaries of  highways and  truck highways have been removed. Interprovincial passenger bus services also resumed. So far, all industrial enterprises above designated size and key engineering projects have resumed production in Guizhou, covering  specialty industries and  projects of innovative development of the service sector, healthcare and livelihood projects. The Sichuan provincial government also rolled out a series of measures to facilitate enterprises to resume production. A total of , projects were reviewed online. Among these,  projects are related to mask production lines and public health capacity enhancement. Meanwhile the provincial government, together with financial institutions such as Agricultural Bank of China, Bank of China, and Agricultural Development Bank, unveiled new policies to strengthen financial services. As of March , among the  projects under construction and  new projects,  projects have resumed production fully or partly, for a rate of . percent.