China concludes international film festival amid market recovery
2020-08-05 09:43
Outdoor screenings were scheduled during the rd Shanghai International Film Festival. PhotoXinhuaChina wrapped up the Shanghai International Film Festival SIFF on Sunday, sending a positive signal that the worlds secondlargest film market is making a steady recovery.With much of the world in the grip of COVID, the rd SIFF was something of a rarity among categoryA film festivals, as most foreign festivals were postponed or shifted their main events online.The SIFF was shorn of the starstudded red carpet and awards ceremony, with nominees for its two major film awards announced but no winners selected. However, the nineday event still screened  Chinese and foreign movies, bringing more than , viewers into the citys cinemas.Return of cinema goingThe film pageant has been hailed as spearheading the revival of the Chinese film market after the country lifted a monthslong closure of cinemas amid the waning epidemic.China allowed cinemas in lowrisk areas to reopen starting on July . That days box office takings stood at a paltry . million yuan ,f amid stringent antivirus measures in cinemas, ticket sale caps and a limited choice of new films.Yet other figures suggested the enthusiasm of the market was yet to be unleashed. The SIFF started ticket sales on the same day, and saw , tickets sold in  minutes.On July , when the SIFF raised its curtains, the Chinese mainland box office took . million yuan, and on Aug , when the festival concluded, the figure was  million yuan.The audiences enthusiasm has survived the epidemic, which is the best news for the movie industry, said Yu Dong, chairman of Bona Film Group, who urged the industry to boost production to make up for the halfyear lull caused by the outbreak.Technological innovation also smoothed the resumption of business for cinemas, according to Li Jie, vice president of Alibaba Group and president of Alibaba Pictures.Ticketing platform Taopiaopiao, for instance, updated its system to conflate the percent cap on ticket sales with the requirement of selling nonadjacent tickets on the very day that cinemas reopened, Li said, hailing the rapid innovation that took place during the pandemic.The film festival also gave a boost to the market warmup. In Shanghai,  movie theaters, or  percent of the total, have reopened, compared with  at the start of the event. A total of , screenings for SIFF movies were held, with over half of the viewers being aged below , indicating a comeback of an age group with strong ticketpurchase power.Fu Wenxia, managing director of the Shanghai International Film  TV Events Center, said it is of special significance that the SIFF was held five days after cinemas were allowed to reopen.With bargain tickets and abundant film options, the film festival gave lots of encouragement to movie fans. Holding it at this time serves to warm up the recovery of the national market, she said.