China combating epidemic by using a peoplefirst approach
2020-07-30 09:30
A recovering pneumonia patient gives a thumbsup to medical workers at Wuhan Universitys Zhongnan Hospital. GAO XIANGFOR CHINA DAILY    Since the COVID outbreak, China has waged a national peoples war against the virus. Under the strong leadership of the Communist Party of China Central Committee with Comrade Xi Jinping at the core, the country has put peoples lives and health first, fully demonstrating its peoplecentered philosophy. Allout war The COVID epidemic is the fastest spreading, most extensive and most challenging public health emergency the country has encountered since the founding of the Peoples Republic of China. Closing outbound traffic from Wuhan, the virusravaged city in Hubei province, on Jan  was a crucial step to stem the spread of the virus. The lockdown of Wuhanwhich has a population of more than  millionalong with emergency response measures elsewhere helped prevent about , infections in China, according to the analysis of  leading global research institutes. The dispatch of medical supplies and medical teams to Hubei soon began. A total of  medical teams and , medical workers were sent to Hubei, including teams led by Chinas Top  academicians and nearly onetenth of the countrys best intensive care doctors and nurses. The countrys best medical resources were pooled to save lives. Medical bills for hospitalized COVID patients were covered by medical insurance and fiscal funds. The collectivist concept of human rights, rooted in traditional Chinese culture, is an important reason for the effectiveness of the epidemic prevention and control measures, said Liu Huawen, executive director of the institute of human rights studies of the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences. Fu Zitang, president of Southwest University of Political Science and Law, said China has put life above all else in the fight and has taken extraordinary measures, securing major strategic achievements in containing COVID. The allout war against COVID safeguards human rights, said Fu, also vicepresident of the China Society for Human Rights Studies. Development rights While containing the epidemic, China has taken steps to restore a sense of normalcy in everyday life as ensuring peoples employment, livelihood and education are key to safeguarding their right to development. Social security contributions from companies were reduced by over  billion yuan . billion between February and April. Subsidies of . billion yuan were given to . million companies to help them manage through difficulties and reduce layoffs. China fights the virus as it fights poverty. Wiping out absolute poverty is an important aspect of promoting human rights. China aims to lift all rural residents living below the current poverty line out of poverty in . The antipoverty fight is advancing with concrete progress across the country. China is expected to reach the poverty reduction goal set by the United Nations in its  Agenda for Sustainable Development a decade ahead of schedule. On education, the government has pushed schools to offer online courses during the epidemic and has offered help for students in need to ensure no one is left behind.