Year of diplomatic responsibility and vision
2021-01-16 08:17
LI MINCHINA DAILY    Despite  being full of hardships and uncertainties, China continued making progress on several fronts and, in the process, safeguarding national interests, and helping the world fight the novel coronavirus pandemic and rejuvenate the global economy. On the domestic front, Chinas policies were focused on eradicating extreme poverty and building a moderately prosperous society in all respects while globally its diplomacy was aimed at helping build a community with a shared future for humankind. After the pandemic broke out, China made efforts to protect the interests of all countries, especially developing and lessdeveloped ones, and promote a fairer global governance system. Chinas prompt and scientific methods to combat the epidemic helped it to largely contain the spread of the virus at home. As a result, many global organizations including the International Monetary Fund forecast that China is the only major economy likely to achieve positive GDP growth in . Since meticulous planning and prudent use of domestic and imported resources played a key role in containing the virus and helping resume normal economic activities, Chinas leadership adopted a dual circulation development paradigm to maintain sustainable development. The paradigm is centered on internal circulation domestic economy and aims to integrate the domestic economy with the global economy external circulation to develop new advantages for China in global competition and cooperation. Amid the pandemicinduced global recession, China has tried to boost domestic demand and further open up the economy to the outside world, by hosting major trade events including the  China International Fair for Trade in Services in Beijing in September and the rd China International Import Expo in Shanghai in November. Needless to say, these global events have created lots of opportunities for other countries and facilitated mutual development. According to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Developments Economic Outlook in December, global GDP, after falling . percent in , will grow . percent in  and China will account for more than onethird of the global economic growth. China also made contributions to the global fight against the pandemic in many other aspects. It has proposed to help build a global community of health for all based on the peoplefirst and lifefirst principle. And on April , the Communist Party of China and more than  political parties from over  countries issued a joint open letter calling for closer international cooperation to fight the COVID pandemic. Also, during the General Debate of the th session of the United Nations General Assembly, China announced that it would provide  million for the UN Global Humanitarian Response Plan to COVID and another  million for the ChinaFAO SouthSouth Cooperation Trust Fund. It also established a global joint prevention and control mechanism against COVID, dispatching  medical teams to  countries, and providing  batches of supplies for  countries and four international organizations. While President Xi Jinping, via video link, announced at the rd World Health Assembly that China will provide  billion over two years to help with COVID response and with economic and social development in affected countries, the Chinese government has been sharing with the rest of the world Chinas experiences in the fight against the epidemic. More important, China has pledged to make its vaccines global public goods and supply them to developing countries on a priority basis apart from joining COVAX, a global collaboration to accelerate the development, production, and equitable access to COVID tests, treatments, and vaccines. With the world struggling to cope with the pandemics impact on the health sector and the global economy in , China, under the leadership of the CPC, fought back stigmatization by issuing factual reports about COVID through Chinese media outlets and helped the world better control and prevent the spread of the virus. In the face of innumerable challenges, China has continued to shoulder its international responsibilities as a major power by making efforts to improve the global governance system. At international meetings such as the th BRICS Summit, the th APEC Economic Leaders Meeting and the G Summit, China opposed unilateralism and protectionism, and vowed to safeguard multilateralism and the existing world order. In particular, China signing the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership agreement with the  member states of ASEAN, and Japan, the Republic of Korea, Australia and New Zealand was a highlight of the countrys achievements in promoting multilateralism, free trade and regional integration. Now, it is considering joining the Comprehensive and Progressive Agreement for TransPacific Partnership. In spite of being the target of baseless allegations visvis the pandemic, Chinas circle of friends expanded in  because of its sincerity in keeping its promises and working with other countries for mutual development. In this regard, China continued talks with the European Unionwith which it concluded the negotiations on the ChinaEU Comprehensive Agreement on Investment on Dec and with Russia to boost mutual trust and the comprehensive strategic partnership. Moreover, China has pursued allaround and allsector neighborhood diplomacy, by maintaining talks and improving cooperation with neighboring countries, and promoted Chinas friendly relations with other developing countries. This year is especially important for the world because all countries need to find ways to deal with the second wave of COVID infections and deaths and the emergence of mutant strains of the virus. It is also important for China, not least because  is the first year of its th FiveYear Plan  and the th anniversary of the founding of the CPC. China will continue to deepen policy coordination with other countries to boost the fight against COVID and improve global governance. It will also find better ways of telling its story to the outside world to clear misunderstandings, and take measures to boost its soft power. And with US presidentelect Joe Biden taking office on Jan , it will try to resume talks with the US and revitalize the SinoUS relationship that reached a historic low in . The author is dean of the School of International Relations, Beijing International Studies University. The views dont necessarily reflect those of China Daily. ?