Charity program shines light on stayathome children
2020-10-26 14:31
Yu Ning, president of AVIVACOFCO Insurance Co, delivers a speech at the ceremony of the charity program. Photo provided to chinadaily.com.cn    A charity program called Stars and Lights  was launched on Friday to help stayathome children. Due to the pandemic, the protection of stayathome children in some areas is facing challenges. The program strives to establish a correct and scientific awareness of health and safety when pandemic prevention and control are normalized. The theme of the program is Guardian Life, Act Together. At the launch meeting, Yu Ning, president of AVIVACOFCO, a SinoBritish joint venture insurance company, said that this year the enterprise will continue to work with IFENG.COM, together with First Response, the first professional first aid NGO in China. By approaching stayathome children and their families and carrying out professional health promotion and cardiopulmonary resuscitation classes, children will have correct and scientific health and safety awareness. Song Wenzhen, Inspector of the Office of National Working Committee on Children and Women under the State Council, said that the guardianship and safety of stayathome children still face great challenges, therefore, there is still a long way to go. Ling Feng, chief expert of neurosurgery at Xuanwu Hospital, who has been Mother Ling for orphans in Yunnan province for  years, said, After  years, more than  orphans helped by our team have graduated from college. They have become volunteers, doctors, and even joined volunteer doctor team. She also mentioned that support for the health and safety of stayathome children is imminent. Caring for stayathome children will be a lifelong career, she added. Jiang Ying, deputy secretarygeneral of the China Charities Aid Foundation for Children, said if we can raise childrens awareness of selfprotection before the occurrence of injuries, we can avoid many tragedies. Zhou Haimei, a famous Chinese actress who has been working on public welfare for years, donated , yuan , to the followup of the Stars and Lights program. As a public figure, I hope to encourage everyone to not only provide financial support to the stayathome children, but also provide more physical and psychological assistance to them, she said. The Stars and Lights program has a history of  years from  to , which has traveled through  provinces, donated  caring huts, delivered supplies to more than  village schools, and helped more than , stayathome children.  is a?year?of?decisive?victory for finish building a moderately prosperous society in all respects and the elimination?of?poverty. The physical and mental safety and health care of stayathome children is the top priority in the battles of antiepidemic and poverty alleviation, said Yu. The program empowers stayathome children with the ability to save themselves. Health and safety awareness will be deeply rooted in every childrens heart. Wang Yugang contributed to this story.