Changchun city posts steady growth in industry
2020-11-26 13:42
From January to October, the economy of Changchun  capital city of Northeast Chinas Jilin province  has been on the rise.The total output value of industrial enterprises above a designated size  those with annual revenue of  million yuan . million or more  increased by . percent yearonyear during the period, . percentage points higher than the average for the province.In the  months, Changchuns industrial added value increased by . percent yearonyear, ranking it first among the four subprovincial cities in Northeast China and second among the  subprovincial cities in China.According to statistics, during the th FiveYear Plan period , the total output value of the citys industrial enterprises above a designated size increased by . percent and their industrial added value increased by . percent.In the face of the COVID outbreak, as early as Feb  this year, Changchun established policies and measures to ensure epidemic prevention and control and see that its manufacturers returned to work and production.In the first  days of March, Changchun was the first in China to achieve a  percent return to work and production of industrial enterprises above a designated size.In recent years, Changchun has implemented  industrial projects with a total investment of more than  billion yuan and  key projects have achieved incremental output, with an added output value of . billion yuan.During the current year,  industrial projects with an investment of more than  million yuan have been either launched or resumed.From January to October, the citys industrial fixed assets investment changed from negative to positive, with a yearonyear increase of . percent, which was higher than the national industrial investment growth rate and it was expected to maintain a positive growth trend going forwards.In addition, Changchun proposed a construction target of  million square meters of industrial manufacturing plants for . In the year to date, work has begun on  factory projects.Meanwhile, Changchun is expected to build . million sq m of standard plants by the end of the year, which would provide strong support for accelerating the settlement of a number of strategic emerging industrial projects and realizing the cluster development of industrial projects.