CDC journal COVID circulating in Italy in late November
2020-12-10 04:18
FILE PHOTO A general view of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention CDC headquarters in Atlanta, Georgia, September , . PhotoAgencies    Italy identified the novel coronavirus in a patient in early December, researchers said in a new study published by the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention CDC, the latest research suggesting that the disease hit Europe earlier than thought. We identified severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus  SARSCoV RNA in an oropharyngeal swab specimen collected from a child with suspected measles in early December , Antonella Amendola of the University of Milan and other authors wrote? in the CDCs Emerging Infectious Disease journal. SARSCoV is the respiratory virus that causes COVID, while RNA, or ribonucleic acid, is a nucleic acid present in all living cells. That was about three months before the first identified coronavirus disease case in Italy, they said in an early release of their article in the February  issue of the journal. This finding expands our knowledge on timing and mapping of novel coronavirus transmission pathways, the Italian authors wrote. COVID symptoms can appear as early as two days after infection or as late as  days, according to the CDC. This could mean the coronavirus was circulating in Italy as soon as the end of November , as reported by the Bloomberg on Wednesday, which cited the same research. The new study provides further perspective into demystify the origin of COVID, as other scientific papers also suggested the novel coronavirus appeared in the United States in midDecember  and in France in late December, before or around the time the virus was officially identified in China. China reported cases of what people then called pneumonia of unknown cause on Dec . The World Health Organization said it received Chinas official report on the cluster of cases on Jan . In the Italian case, researchers said the boy, who lived in the surrounding area of Milan and had no reported travel history, had cough and rhinitis on Nov  and was taken to the emergency department with respiratory symptoms and vomiting a week later. These findings, in agreement with other evidence of early COVID spread in Europe, advance the beginning of the outbreak to late autumn , the authors noted. In France, for example, researchers found the virus in a retrospective analysis of a specimen from a patient who was hospitalized in France on Dec , , which was weeks before the first cases were confirmed in France on Jan , . The Italian researchers pointed out, however, earlier strains also might have been occasionally imported to Italy and other countries in Europe during the late autumn period, but those importations could have been different from the strain that became widespread in Italy during the first months of . Italy was the first Western country severely hit by the COVID epidemic, with the first known COVID case reported in the town of Codogno in the Lombardy region on Feb . However, some evidence suggests that SARSCoV had been circulating unnoticed for several weeks in Lombardy before the first official detection, according to the CDC journal article. Italy logged  coronavirusrelated deaths on Wednesday, adding the total to more than ,  since February, the secondhighest toll in Europe after Britain. Researchers in the country have never stopped their quest for the exact timeline of the COVID epidemic in Italy. Environmental surveillance has unequivocally demonstrated the presence of the virus, at concentrations comparable to those obtained from samples collected at later stages of the pandemic, in the untreated wastewater of the Milan area as early as midDecember , according to the article. Another research article, published by the National Cancer Institutes scientific magazine Tumori Journalon Nov , show that . percent of  healthy volunteers participating in a lung cancer screening trial in Italy between September  and March  had developed coronavirus antibodies. Scientists with the US CDC also found evidence of the novel coronavirus infection in  of , blood donations collected from residents in nine states across the US as early as midDecember, according to their study published online in the journal Clinical Infectious Diseaseslast Monday.