US, Italy, Spain are hardest hit by pandemic
2020-03-30 10:29
Patients are transferred to Maimonides Medical Center in Brooklyn borough of New York City on Saturday. The number of COVID cases in the United States was , as of Saturday, according to the World Health Organization.?MICHAEL NAGLE  XINHUA    The coronavirus death toll shot past , in Europe over the weekend, with Italy and Spain reporting the largest number of fatalities. Globally, the death toll has touched ,twothirds of those in Europeand officials in some countries say the worst still lies ahead. More than , cases of novel coronavirus have been officially recorded around the world, according to the World Health Organization. Spain has toughened a nationwide lockdown, halting all nonessential activities, though officials said the epidemic in the country seemed to be nearing a peak, said Agence FrancePresse. Infection rates in Italy are on a downward trend, with the head of the national health institute Silvio Brusaferro predicting a peak in the next few days. But in France, Prime Minister Edouard Philippe warned the battle was just beginning, adding that the first two weeks of April would be even tougher than the past fortnight, according to AFP. Europe, AFP said, has suffered the brunt of the coronavirus crisis in recent weeks, with millions across the continent on lockdown, and the streets of Paris, Rome and Madrid eerily empty. The United States, the current epicenter of the global outbreak, had the highest number of COVID cases in the world, at ,, as of Saturday, said the WHO. The coronavirusrelated deaths in the country soared over the weekend, reaching ,. US President Donald Trump, however, backed away from calling for a quarantine for coronavirus hot spots in New York, New Jersey and Connecticut, instead directing on Saturday night that a strong travel advisory be issued to stem the spread of the outbreak. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has advised residents of the three states to refrain from nonessential domestic travel for  days, CNN said. The US Food and Drug Administration issued Emergency Use Authorization to Abbott Labs on Friday for a coronavirus test that delivers positive results in as little as five minutes and negative results in  minutes, according to the Associated Press. The company expects the tests to be available this week and expects to ramp up manufacturing to deliver , tests per day. FDA Commissioner Steve Hahn said in a statement that these tests can be a game changer in diagnosing COVID, AP reported. Malaysias Top Glove Corporation Bhd, which makes one in every five gloves globally, expects a product shortage as demand from Europe and the US spikes because of the widening coronavirus outbreak is exceeding its capacity, Reuters said. Top Glove can produce  million natural and synthetic rubber gloves a day. Its executive chairman Lim Wee Chai told Reuters that orders received in the past few weeks, mainly from Europe and the US, were almost double the companys production capacity. Some customers panic order normally they order  containers a month but now they suddenly increase to  containers, he said. The WHO warned on Friday that the chronic global shortage of personal protective gear is among the most urgent threats to the virus containment efforts. CHINA DAILY  AGENCIES