Capital Airport boosts Olympic precautions
2021-11-11 09:10
Immigration officers inspect passengers aboard an inbound aircraft at the Beijing Capital International Airport in June. Photo provided to CHINA DAILY    The airport operation team serving next years Winter Olympic and Winter Paralympic Games in Beijing has carried out intensified epidemic control measures to prevent COVID outbreaks, its leader said on Wednesday. Sun Jianying, executive deputy director of the organizing committees airport operation team, told a news conference it will continue to improve services and epidemic control plans. With  days to go before the  Winter Olympics open, Sun said Beijing Capital International Airport will be the only official port for participants entering and leaving China. All entries will be handled at Zone D in Terminal , and all departures will be handled at zones C and E in Terminal . Closed management will be carried out in those areas, he said. Airport and airline employees who work in the areas as well as those who have direct contact with imported cargo will carry out stricter epidemic control measures. A service capability evaluation regarding entries and departures has been carried out to arrange more reasonable time slots. The airport will add more stations for nucleic acid tests and speed up customs processing. It aims to arrange passengers, logistics and vehicles in an orderly fashion to ensure safe and smooth arrivals and departures, Sun said. The airport operation team, established in April, has drawn up plans, backup plans and emergency response plans with the aim of offering safe and smooth service. The team, guided by the Beijing municipal government, the Civil Aviation Administration of China and the organizing committee, is improving working mechanisms and capabilities to offer better service, Sun said, adding that the team has implemented tasks smoothly. It has received officials from the International Olympic Committee who visited Games venues and athletes who competed in test events, and has ensured the smooth transportation of the Olympic flame. From Oct  to Tuesday, the team offered services to  flights related to the Games, including passenger and cargo flights. It handled , passenger trips and , pieces of luggage. The Winter Olympics will take place between Feb  and , followed by the Winter Paralympics from March  to . The Chinese capital is set to become the first city to host both the summer and winter editions of the Olympic Games.