Candid talk, coordinated action
2020-03-19 07:34
LUO JIECHINA DAILY    Prevention and control of the epidemic through communication and practical measures are the most important tasks at present Since the outbreak of COVID, the whole nation has been united in fighting against the epidemic under the leadership of the Communist Party of China Central Committee with GeneralSecretary Xi Jinping as its core. The Chinese embassy in Vietnam takes prevention and control of the epidemic as the most important political task at present, actively carries out epidemic prevention and control work, carries out overall antiepidemic diplomacy, and contribute to safeguarding the health of the Chinese and Vietnamese people. Since the outbreak, people from all walks of life in Vietnam have been closely watching Chinas progress in epidemic prevention and control. The Chinese embassy has kept close communication with the foreign affairs, defense, public security, public health, and transportation authorities in Vietnam, sharing comprehensive, strict and thorough measures taken by the CPC and the Chinese government in fighting the virus. We emphasized that China has the confidence and ability to win the fight against the virus. China is trying to minimize the impact of the epidemic, and achieve its economic and social development goals this year. Vietnamese leaders sent messages of condolence to their Chinese counterparts, expressing their confidence in and support for Chinas work. Vietnam Television and other mainstream media have actively reported Chinas progress. New media platforms of the Chinese embassy have also received many messages of encouragement and blessings from Vietnamese netizens every day. Two Vietnamese youngsters, who are learning Chinese, composed a song titled Go Wuhan, to cheer up those fighting the epidemic in the city, which was well received. It has become a broad consensus to fight the epidemic and tide over difficulties together. With the massive scale of the outbreak, China ran short of medical supplies. The Chinese embassy in Vietnam rapidly responded, actively coordinated relevant authorities to send back , worth of medical supplies donated by the Vietnamese government, the Vietnamese Red Cross, the Ministry of Industry and Trade and the Ministry of Defense. It also actively matched Chinese local authorities with Vietnamese producers of medical supplies, and solved the transportation problem caused by flight suspension, creating a path for China to receive international aid. After the Vietnamese side temporarily suspended the flow of people and goods between the two countries, employees of Chinese enterprises and construction workers who went back to China for Spring Festival could not return to Vietnam. In order to protect the legitimate rights and interests of Chinese enterprises and personnel in Vietnam, the Chinese embassy in Vietnam immediately came up with a list of personnel who needed to return to Vietnam, and communicated with relevant Vietnamese departments for coordinating joint prevention and control measures so that peopletopeople exchanges between the two countries can be gradually resumed. A large number of Chinese nationals were stranded in Vietnam after the Vietnamese government suspended twoway flights with China. The Chinese embassy in Vietnam immediately took actions to communicate with the Vietnamese side, called on the country to respect the professional opinions of the World Health Organization and the International Civil Aviation Organization and make prudent and scientific decisions. At the same time, the embassy sent a working group to the airport to assist stranded Chinese citizens. After coordination with various authorities, nearly  citizens were sent home through the land port within two days. The Chinese embassy then coordinated the return of  Hubei residents by chartered plane, and asked Vietnamese airlines to arrange two flights to transport  Chinese citizens back to China. When the Chinese citizens were stranded in Vietnam, the embassy set up five hotlines for consular protection and answered hundreds of calls for help every day. The embassy has also continuously issued consular alerts through its official website, updated the entry and exit restriction measures of Vietnam, and sent staff to the airport, collected messages from WeChat public accounts, and received Chinese citizens who came to the embassy seeking help to know the demands and difficulties of as many Chinese citizens in Vietnam as possible, and offered suggestions and assistance accordingly. After two Chinese citizens were diagnosed with COVID in Vietnam, the Chinese embassy and consulate in Vietnam maintained close communication with relevant Vietnamese authorities to ensure that they got the best treatment. These two citizens were cured and discharged from hospital eventually. The epidemic is a challenge to all mankind and it requires the joint response of all countries. China has always regarded strengthening international cooperation as an important part in the fight against the epidemic and kept the international community informed. At present, positive progress has been made in the prevention and control of the epidemic in China. Going forward, we will continue to work with Vietnam, serve the overall interest of antiepidemic work, make positive efforts to win the final victory in the fight against the virus, and jointly safeguard the health and safety of people in China, Vietnam and around the world.