Business partners remain confident of Chinas irreplaceable role in supply chains
2020-03-03 16:49
An employee at the BMW Brilliance Automotive Ltd Tiexi plant installs an instrument panel on an assembly line in Tiexi, Liaoning province. PhotoAgencies    BEIJING  Business leaders around the world have expressed confidence in Chinas leading role in the global supply chain in an increasingly interconnected world economy. Although the ongoing COVID outbreak has sparked concerns of global supply chain disruption, business leaders have recently told Xinhua that China boasts an effective workforce and a vertically integrated supply chain, and its commitment to highlevel safety standards and quality has made it irreplaceable. LONGTERM COMPETITIVENESS We are relying on our partners in China. The manufacturing cannot be moved quickly or easily, because there are so many safety standards to be observed, said Steve Pasierb, president and CEO of the US Toy Association, a New Yorkbased nonprofit trade group for the US toy industry. Noting that China manufactures about  percent of toy products sold in the United States, Pasierb said that safety is more important than cost control for his industry, and Chinese manufacturers have proven themselves capable of supplying costeffective products that meet a full set of regulations. Manufacturing partners in China are true partners. Theyre not only making the product, they work with our companies to make the product better, said Pasierb, adding that meaningful, true collaborative partnership with Chinese suppliers has made US toy makers more profitable. For JeanPaul Agon, chairman and CEO of LOreal Group, Chinas competitive advantage in the global supply chain is built on quality, innovation and sustainability. Therefore, we are confident in Chinas resilience and longterm competence and competitiveness, said Agon. ORDERLY PRODUCTION Thanks to Chinas drastic and rigorous prevention and control measures against the epidemic, the overall tally of new cases of confirmed COVID infections nationwide has gradually declined. As a result, in a key meeting on Feb , China called on the public to return to work and for the orderly resumption of largescale production in a bid to achieve its social and economic development goals this year. As of Monday, Chinas manufacturing heartland Guangdong Province has seen . percent of firms resume operation, according to official data. The province, a major magnet for migrant workers from other provinces, also saw the return of . million nonlocal workers. In the Yangtze River Delta integration demonstration zone in Chinas east, a manufacturing hub of complex industrial chains,  percent of largescale industrial enterprises there have resumed operations by Feb , according to local authorities. In an interview with the FOX network that aired on Friday, Apple Inc CEO Tim Cook said that factories in China are returning to normal, and he is very optimistic about Chinas ability to get the epidemic under control. I think of this as the third phase in getting back to normal, and were in phase three of the ramp mode, he said. SUSTAINABILITY EMPHASIS Despite the temporary impact of the COVID epidemic on economic activities in China, business leaders have expressed confidence that the Chinese economy and the global economy will recover soon after the epidemic subsides, and in the long run, Chinas ability to attract foreign investment will not be dampened. We have no indication of our American companies, our members leaving China at all. Rather, many companies are increasing their investments in the country, Craig Allen, president of the USChina Business Council, said recently at a press conference. The confidence in Chinas future economic performance mainly derives from its commitment to investing in technology and sustainable development, which is conducive to future economic development, said John Denton, secretary general of the International Chamber of Commerce. Calling Chinas strong investment in green technology and renewable energy encouraging, Denton said that when the outbreak is under control, Chinas economic activity will resume steadily and investors will seek out opportunities in these and other areas.