Bringing China prosperity with scitech innovation
2021-08-11 21:51
A section of the lightbased quantum computer created by researchers at the University of Science and Technology of China. PhotoXinhua    BEIJING  On April , , a young man in Liangjiahe, a village in Northwest Chinas Shaanxi province, was excited to get the news that China successfully sent its first satellite Dongfanghong into space. The young man, Xi Jinping, later became Chinese President. On May , , Xi, also general secretary of the Communist Party of China CPC Central Committee and chairman of the Central Military Commission, extended congratulations on the successful landing of Chinas first probe on Mars. He called for making new and greater contributions to exploring the mysteries of the universe and promoting the noble cause of peace and the development of humanity. Stressing the importance of scitech innovation in building a moderately prosperous society in all respects, Xi once noted that We must blaze a new trail and rely on innovation to drive growth. FOR THE PEOPLE Xi noted that satisfying peoples longing for a better life should be the foothold of scitech innovation, the goal of which should be to benefit, enrich and improve peoples lives. Since the outbreak of COVID, Xi has put forward new requirements for scitech innovation. China clearly stated that peoples lives and health should be the top priority in the fight against the virus. Last March, Xi visited the Academy of Military Medical Sciences and Tsinghua University in Beijing. He said that COVID research must be taken as a major and pressing task, calling for accelerating its progress and overcoming major difficulties in epidemic prevention and control at an early date. Science and technology are the most powerful weapons in humanitys battle against diseases, Xi said. Mankind cannot defeat a major disaster or epidemic without scientific development and technological innovation. At the call of Xi, experts and professionals from various fields and disciplines in the country worked around the clock to build a tight safety net for more than . billion Chinese people and injected confidence into the global fight against the pandemic. One year later, China promoted the largest scale of vaccination against COVID. Chinas COVID vaccines have been approved for use in more than  countries and regions worldwide. Chinese people have been benefiting from the scitech achievements and innovation initiatives since the country further increased the support of scitech in improving peoples livelihood. When visiting a tea farm during his inspection trip to East Chinas Fujian province in March, Xi stressed more efforts in implementing the arrangements to dispatch technical professionals to rural areas to help with local development. Hundreds of thousands of technical professionals had participated in Chinas poverty alleviation efforts. The country in February declared a complete victory in eradicating absolute poverty. Scitech innovations have helped China achieve major progress in fields like improving air quality, protecting land resources, and reclaiming saline land. FROM THE PEOPLE Xi wrote back to the elder scientists who participated in the Dongfanghong mission, as the th anniversary of the successful launch of the countrys first manmade satellite approached last year. In the letter, Xi said he is deeply moved that the participants of the Dongfanghong mission have devoted their youth to the space cause and still care about the future of Chinas aerospace industry in their old age. From older generation scientists to outstanding scientists after the founding of New China, Xi has mentioned many names on many occasions. Scitech innovation is inseparable from talents. China cannot ask for, buy or beg for core technologies in key fields, noted Xi in  while addressing Chinas academicians. He called on researchers and engineers to establish a strong sense of responsibility and selfconfidence to innovate. Xis speech gave Lu Chaoyang greater confidence in exploring deep into quantum science research. Lu, who became a professor at the University of Science and Technology of China at , wishes that China would stand on top of quantum science one day. While presiding over a group study session of the Political Bureau of the CPC Central Committee last October, Xi stressed the importance and urgency of advancing quantum science and technology. He called for strengthening strategic planning and the systematic layout for the development of quantum science and technology, as well as grasping the general trend and playing good first moves. Last December, Lu and his team built a quantum computing prototype Jiuzhang, via which up to  photons were detected. The achievement marks Chinas first milestone on the path to fullscale quantum computing. China has been building its scitech team and optimizing its talent structure. A group of leading talents and innovation teams have emerged, and young scitech talents have gradually become the main force of scientific research. When the young generation harbours aspirations, skills and a sense of responsibility, science and technology will have a future and innovation will have hope, noted Xi.