Bolivia declares day total quarantine to fight COVID
2020-03-22 08:59
A sign reading stay at home is displayed in the empty city centre of La Paz, after the government asked residents to stay indoors to prevent the spread of the coronavirus disease in La Paz, Bolivia, March , . PhotoAgencies    LA PAZ  Bolivia will enter into total quarantine for  days starting Sunday, the leader of the interim government, Jeanine Anez, announced on Saturday. In a message to the nation, accompanied by her cabinet of ministers, Anez said that from zero hour this Sunday, we must be home  hours a day, as it is the best way to stop the coronavirus. She asked for citizens to remain calm, united, and to comply with the established regulations. Given the increase in cases in recent days, some sectors of society and local authorities have been demanding the implementation of extreme measure to contain the epidemic, while some sectors, such as trade unions and the commercial sector, have opposed it. Anez said that it was a tough but necessary decision, clarifying that markets and supply centers will be open until noon, and factories, production centers, and the transportation of essential products will function as usual. She also said citizens will be able to go out to seek healthcare, as pharmacies, hospitals and health centers will function normally. Public and private transportation, however, will be suspended, with special permits granted to those working in areas such as healthcare and essential services. One person per family will be permitted to leave the home to shop for food and other necessary supplies while keeping at least one meter of distance between themselves and others. Anez also said that in the following days, the government will look to help small and mediumsized companies by alleviating the payment of credit and taxes. Anez warned that the measures will be enforced with all the force of the law. So far, Bolivia has registered  confirmed cases of the novel coronavirus, one of the lowest figures in South America.