Best destinations to view flowers in southern Shaanxi
2021-04-15 16:03
Yang county in Hanzhong city has been famous for its cole flowers since ancient times. The place is known as the heaven of cole flowers.PhotoXinhua    With the arrival of spring, it is time to step outdoors and enjoy the wide relaxed expanse of nature as the landscape is again teeming with vitality and colors after a bleak winter. If you feel like visiting some flower fields, southern Shaanxi definitely has a lot to offer. Cole flower destinations  Xixiang county, Hanzhong city The  Hanzhong Cole Flower Festival is already underway. As the festivals main site, Xixiang county boasts a large field of cole flowers, a massive stretch of which is usually compared to a golden paradise. There is also an observation platform with a panoramic view of the field and a Europeanstyle windmill. Travel guide TrainXian South Station  Xixiang Station Around  hours Tips It is most convenient to take a taxi to Xixiang and all the cole flower fields have no entry fee. Besides cole flowers, the cherry blossoms in Cherry Vale of Xixiang County bloom at the same time. Dont miss it!  Yang county, Hanzhong city Yang county has been famous for its cole flowers since ancient times. The place is known as the heaven of cole flowers. Besides, there is also a wheat field here, which creates a unique blend of halfgreen and halfyellow scenery. Travel guide TrainXian North Station  Yangxian West Station Around  hour Tips Except for cole flowers, the pear flowers bloom at the same time in Yang county. Last but not least, you can see the exclusive crested ibises here!  Hanyin county, Ankang city There is a wellproportioned terraced cole flower field in the Fengyan Ancient Terraces. Overlooking the field, villages are scattered among a large rolling field of golden flowers. When gazing upon the scenery, its like being in an oil painting! Travel guide TrainXian South Station  Hanyin Station Around  hours Tips We recommend that you drive there yourself, as the transportation isnt very convenient around the terraces.  Qishan county, Baoji city Zaolin town of Qishan county is an ideal spot to see cole flowers, and besides this, Linghui village in Baoji city is also worth a visit for its beautiful country scenery. Travel guide TrainXian Station  Caijiapo Station Around  hour  minutes