Benitez, Paulinho back ahead of anticipated CSL kickoff
2020-06-17 10:06
Guangzhou Evergrande star Paulinho has returned to China.    The returns of Rafa Benitez and Paulinho to China have heightened expectations that the delayed  Chinese Super League season will finally kick off next month. On Monday, a senior Shanghai sports official suggested the league will start in July  comments which appear to have been given credence by the arrivals of a number of bigname foreigners back in China, including Dalian Pro head coach Benitez and Guangzhou Evergrande midfielder Paulinho. Originally scheduled to kick off on Feb , the  CSL season was postponed due to the COVID pandemic. Many of Europes major leagues, including Germanys Bundesliga and Spains La Liga, have recently got back underway and now it seems the CSL will follow. The Chinese Football Association had been pushing for a lateJune start. That plan reportedly failed to get final government approval due to inadequacies identified in the CFAs epidemic prevention measures. However, comments on Monday by Xu Bi, the director of the Shanghai Administration of Sports, have given fans renewed hope. The Chinese Basketball Association announced that its league will start on June , and if everything goes well, the CSL will resume in July, Xu told a Shanghai radio station. Because the time is much shortened, the format of the  season will be different. Probably, there will not be home and away games in both basketball and soccer. Just like the CBA, Xu says CSL teams could gather in two hub cities to finish the season, with the league split into two groups and featuring roundrobin and knockout stages. At the time of writing, there was no official word from the CFA on Xus claims, however the return of several foreign players and coaches to China has added to the sense of expectation that a kickoff could be just around the corner. Benitez confirmed he is back on Chinese soil on social media on Monday, while media also reported that a trio of his Dalian players  Venezuelan Salomon Rondon and Swedish pair Marcus Danielson and Sam Larsson  have also returned. Back in China. We stopped in the beautiful city of Stockholm where I visited some emblematic places like the Riksdag, the Royal Guard Wing Building and the Royal Palace, former Liverpool boss Benitez wrote on Weibo. PP Sports reported that one of the CSLs most famous imports, Evergrandes Brazilian star Paulinho, returned to Guangzhou on Tuesday morning. After a day medical quarantine, the yearold former Barcelona star will rejoin the defending CSL champions squad. In late March, the Chinese Foreign Ministry temporarily suspended the entry of foreign nationals, but included a proviso that those deemed necessary for economic, trade, scientific or technological activities could apply for visas at Chinese embassies or consulates. Many people may question why the foreign coaches and players can come back to China now, said Chinese soccer reporter Bai Guohua. Actually, after the Foreign Ministry issued the temporary suspension of entering into China, some foreign people could still apply. If a club could get the provincial level of approval, the player could contact a local Chinese embassy to get a work visa and enter China... Its a hard process, but its not hopeless. Just quite how many of the CSLs foreign contingent can make it back in time remains to be seen. CFA president Chen Xuyuan has said that the league wont wait for everyone to return. In the event that some teams are left with glaring holes in their squads due to the absence of imported stars, the CFA could face calls to adjust its foreignplayer policy in the interests of fairness. The CBA, for example, has amended its rules on the number of foreign players teams can put on the court for its resumption. According to the original  season regulations, CSL clubs are permitted to register six foreigners, with five of those eligible in matchday squads and four allowed on the pitch at any one time  although the CFA has recently considered amending these rules. There could also be imbalances on the sideline too. Although Dalian Pro has been fortunate enough to welcome back Benitez, last seasons runnerup Beijing Guoan remains without its French head coach, Bruno Genesio. According to LEquipe, the yearold is stranded at home in Lyon. This situation is frustrating and it has become really heavy, Genesio told the French sports daily in an article published on Sunday. I deal with the team from a distance, by phone, teleconference. Chinese clubs have faced unprecedented challenges during soccers long hiatus, including travel restrictions and numerous quarantine periods as they switch training venues. Many clubs have failed to cope with the financial strain, with the CSLs Tianjin Tianhai becoming the most highprofile casualty of the shutdown when it was forced to disband in May. If the mooted July restart fails to materialize, Chinese soccer could well witness more clubs follow Tianhai out of the professional ranks.