Benitez bids Dalian adios
2021-01-25 09:17
File photo of?Rafa Benitez. PhotoXinhua    Spaniard cites family reasons for quitting CSL club When Rafa Benitez admitted he had struggled to cope with lockdown life inside the Chinese Super Leagues biosecure bubble last season, perhaps fans should have realized the Spaniard wouldnt be staying with Dalian Pro for too much longer. On Saturday, the yearold former Liverpool, Real Madrid and Chelsea boss announced he had quit as Dalians head coach, citing family reasons. Unfortunately, like so many things in the last year, COVID has changed our lives and our projects. From today, both my coaching staff and I will sadly no longer be coaching the Dalian Professional FC, Benitez said in a statement on his personal website. It has been an incredible experience and for this I would like to thank all my staff, coaches, medical and club staff as well as our players their commitment to us in the first place, their support during the time we were there, and their effort has been magnificent. The pandemic is still here, for all of us, and supporting our families has been a priority when making this decision. Benitez arrived at Dalian Pro in early  from English club Newcastle United. He inherited a team that had struggled on its return to the top flight following promotion in , finishing th in the team rankings. Finishes of ninth and th in  and  respectively suggest little, if any, progress for the team from Liaoning province since then. Benitez, however, insisted he has built a foundation for future success. Behind us, in China, and especially in Dalian, we are leaving many friends and good memories in a great city with very knowledgeable fans. We have tried to learn and understand a new culture and also to transmit a more professional, more European vision of football with a new methodology, Benitez added. Im convinced we have left a structure and a methodology that will allow the project to go ahead successfully. Since we arrived, the first team has been rejuvenated and the foundations have been laid for the future, from the grassroots schools to the top. In addition, it has been done taking into account the training of players in China under a unique project, that combines football and training at school level up until the doors of the professional teams. I say goodbye sadly under these circumstances, but at the same time I am convinced that the future will be bright for Dalian Pro FC. Last season posed unprecedented challenges for all coaches and players, with the CSL changing to a tournamentstyle format played inside biosecure bubbles in Suzhou and Dalian, where strict lockdown and epidemicprevention regulations were implemented. The Chinese Football Association is expected to adopt a similar approach for the coming  seasona prospect that appears to have been too daunting for Benitez, whose family lives in northern England. While many fans on social media thanked Benitez for his contributions to Dalian, some concurred with media reports that the CFAs new financial regulations were also a factor in his exit. From next season, CSL clubs are subject to an annual expenditure cap of  million yuan  million, while domestic and foreign players salaries have been capped at  million yuan , before tax and  million euros . million before tax respectively. Benitez was reportedly earning around  million per year in Chinaa big financial burden for Dalian Pro, which at least for the foreseeable future will be unable to assist its coach by splashing out on expensive foreign talent. Benitez and Dalian, though, are reported to have parted on good terms. Not every foreign coach or foreign player in Chinese soccer is here just for money. At least I think Benitez was not, soccer commentator Yuan Ye wrote on Weibo. Its a pity. Now Chinese players have lost a chance to work with a bigname foreign coach like him. Benitez is being heavily linked with Scottish side Celtic, as well as a return to Newcastle, whose struggles under Steve Bruce continued on Saturday with a  defeat at Aston Villa that leaves the Magpies th in the English Premier League. Benitez remains a fan favorite at Newcastlemuch to Bruces frustration, who said of his predecessor last week Where did he finish th and th? Is that success? We matched the mighty Rafa last year. We are in the bottom half of the Premier League and have been there for the best part of  years.