Beijings Xinfadi market reopens
2020-09-06 20:10
Trucks loaded with vegetables and fruits enter the Xinfadi market on Sunday morning with the reopening of the north area. Photo provided to chinadaily.com.cn    Beijings Xinfadi wholesale market reopened its north section on Sunday after the south area reopened to vendors last month, marking the full reopening of the market.? After the market suspended operations on June  due to the COVID epidemic, Fengtai district government examined all potential risks there to ensure it could reopen safely, officials said. The north section is the trading area for about  types of vegetables with an area of  mu . hectares.? After the reopening, the market will mainly sell fruits and vegetables along with other agricultural produce.? According to the market authority, , trucks with a total load of , tons of fruits and vegetables entered the market on Aug  when the south area reopened after the epidemic. Afterwards, the types of fruits and vegetables and the number of trucks have increased.? On Saturday, more than , trucks entered the market and the trading volume reached , metric tons.? After the reopening, only the vehicles of vendors and buyers will be allowed to enter the market. Anyone coming into the market must first pass a facial recognition system, as well as temperature checks, said the deputy general manager Gu Zhaoxue.? Private cars, tricycles and bikes will not be allowed to enter the market. New standards were put in place on disinfection, health monitoring and epidemic prevention in public bathrooms under the guidance of the district administration. The authority has improved the environment in nearby areas by removing buildings considered to be safety risks and optimizing traffic routes. The market, founded in , has expanded rapidly with the countrys economic growth. It covers an area the size of  soccer fields, and for years has supplied more than  percent of the capitals agricultural produce. It became known affectionately as the capitals giant veggie basket and fruit platter. The nicknames are accurate, because last year, more than  million metric tons of produce were traded at the market, which had a turnover of  billion yuan  billion. Out of more than , domestic agricultural wholesale markets, Xinfadi ranked first for  consecutive years in trading volume and turnover, according to earlier data.