Beijing University of Technology taking strong measures to control outbreak
2020-02-14 22:16
Students act at Beijing University of Technology. Photo provided to chinadaily.com.cn    Beijing University of Technology has been preventing and controlling the expansion of the novel coronavirus outbreak in every aspect. The College of International Education of the university has formed a leading group and implementation working group. They strengthened communication with the international exchange and cooperation division of the Beijing Municipal Education Commission, and the exitandentry administration service center of the Beijing Public Security Bureau, and have been working closely with other relevant departments within the university to establish a joint working mechanism and overall planning. In the college, working groups are established to cover  teaching and administrative staff members and  international students including over  people staying at school, recording their travel details and daily health condition in order to achieve better communication and epidemic prevention. The college has strengthened sanitation management of international student apartments, carried out cleaning staff training, set clear requirements for cleaning and strengthened work inspections and assessments. The dormitory area is disinfected every day to ensure public areas are in good hygienic condition. Students are required to keep their dorms clean and ventilated. A pass is needed when people or vehicles enter or exit the campus, and everyone has to get their body temperature tested before getting in or out. Employees and students with abnormal body temperatures will be reported to the school right away, and assisted in getting medical services. Delivery packages and takeaway will be strictly disinfected as well. In response to the big number of overseas students staying at school during the Chinese holiday and cultural differences therein, the college is disseminating standardized protection knowledge and the latest news of the novel coronavirus both online and offline to ensure everyone stays alerted but not panicked. It also provides thermometers, disinfectants and hand sanitizers to allow staff and students to protect themselves. Vegetables and fruits are delivered to each dorm door in order to reduce students frequency of going out.