Beijing tries to bridge digital gap for elderly
2021-01-27 07:43
An elderly man swipes his senior card to enter Yuyuantan Park in Beijing last month. The city government has integrated a health code function into the card, which the elderly are accustomed to using, so that those without smartphones are able to enter the park conveniently. Photo by Liu Pingfor China Daily    Adding health codes to senior cards among measures to ease difficulties Beijing will step up efforts to bridge the digital divide faced by seniors and provide them with convenient and smart life services, the citys government work report said. How to solve the difficulties elderly people have in accessing healthcare services and daily necessities via smart devices was a heated topic among legislators and political advisers at their sessions this year. One of the  civil affairs projects Beijing will launch this year will help seniors use smart devices while ensuring traditional service channels remain available for them at public places like hospitals, parks, supermarkets, transport stations, banks and hotels. At the end of last year, pilot projects were launched in the city to facilitate seniors travel under strict epidemic prevention measures by adding health information to their senior cards, freeing them from having to check health codes on smartphones. When the majority has benefited from technological development, we should also provide services for seniors who find it difficult to use the internet and smart devices, said Li Li, a political adviser and CEO of NetEase Media Group. Li suggested keeping traditional service counters for the elderly or organizing helpers to teach them how to use smart devices. Because the elderly faced difficulties in using the health codea digital pass that shows the users health status on smartphones when entering public places under virus control measuresshe said enabling them to use another form of identification, such as the seniors card used in the pilot projects, should be expanded across the city. With the increasing use of mobile payments and online administration of peoples lives, its more difficult for seniors to travel, shop and deal with daily issues, political adviser Chen Xiaoyan told Beijing News. She suggested the government should train more elderly people to better understand smart products, and build a platform to serve and ensure seniors lives in all respects, she said. Beijing is working on establishing a big data platform covering all of its senior citizens to build a comprehensive, scientific and effective risk prevention mechanism for them, Beijing Daily reported on Monday. China had  million people aged  or above by the end of . percent of the countrys populationaccording to the National Bureau of Statistics, and the Ministry of Civil Affairs estimates the number will exceed  million in the next five years. However, by June last year, internet users aged  or above accounted for just . percent of the countrys  million netizens, the China Internet Network Information Center said in a report released in September. The State Council launched a program in November to mitigate the difficulties seniors have in using information technology, stipulating the responsibilities of various departments. The program includes major tasks such as optimizing health code management, improving carailing services, providing multiple channels for hospital registration, and making sure seniors can use cash to make purchases. Beijing will implement the program by enhancing information technology education for elderly people and encourage social sectors and family members to teach elderly people, Yu Luming, director of the Municipal Committee on Aging, said on Monday. More research and development should be put into customized smart products for senior citizens, Yu said. Du Juan contributed to this story.