Beijing reports no new cases
2020-07-08 09:52
Su Beini, , gives a thumbsup to doctors after being tested at a residential area in Dongcheng district last month. Photo by Zou HongChina Daily    Beijing reported no new local COVID cases on Monday for the first time in  days, and its possible that the capital will lower its public health emergency response from the second level to the third as long as no new cluster of infections occurs, expert said. Municipal government spokesman Xu Hejian said at a news conference on Tuesday that the fact that the number of new local cases dropped to zero proved the effectiveness of the citys control and prevention measures. However, zero new cases doesnt mean no risks, he said. We have to stay alert and contain the epidemic with continuous effort. Before Monday, Beijing had reported new local cases in the single digits for eight days in a row, evidence that Beijings epidemic is under control. By Monday, Beijings total number of confirmed cases was  since the city reported the first case on June . Fifteen patients have been discharged from hospital and  are being treated. According to the Beijing Center for Disease Control and Prevention,  communities in  districts in the city have found confirmed COVID cases since June . At the peak, there were five highrisk communities and  mediumrisk communities. By Monday, there was only one community that was designated highrisk, with  others deemed mediumand lowrisk citywide, Xu said. According to the national standard, cities, counties and districts with no active cases or with no new infections in the past  days are categorized as lowrisk those with new infections in the past  days and fewer than  cumulative confirmed cases, or with over  cumulative confirmed cases but without a concentrated outbreak in the past  days, are categorized as mediumrisk. Starting on Saturday, residents in Beijings lowrisk areas no longer need to have negative nucleic acid test results when leaving the city. It seems people can expect that Beijing will ease its restrictions on community lockdowns in the near future as the capital has contained the spread of infections. Wang Hufeng, head of the healthcare reform center of Renmin University of China, said Beijing might lower its response level in the next week or the week after as long as no new cluster occurs, according to a report by Red Star News on Monday. On June , Beijing raised its public health emergency response from the third to the second level due to a rapidly rising number of new COVID infections of more than  in just five days. Starting on Tuesday afternoon, the first batch of , people who work at Xinfadi wholesale market, to which all the cases in the current cluster are connected, have completed their centralized quarantines and have shown negative test results. They will be relocated with followup health monitoring and psychological guidance.