Beijing moves to refine regulations on diseases
2020-06-04 17:28
A staff member checks body temperature of a driver in Beijing, on May , . PhotoXinhua    Beijing city legislators are considering drafts that would establish and revise  local regulations on the prevention and control of infectious diseases, as well as emergency regulations, to better protect public health. The Standing Committee of the Beijing Municipal Peoples Congress began its review of the drafts on Thursday. It is the first time the capitals legislative body has formulated a special legislative work plan to reduce major public health risks. The work is expected to be completed within two years. Wang Rongmei, chair of the Standing Committees Legislative Commission, said that because epidemic prevention and control in Beijing has now become normal for the longterm, the legislative office decided to draft a series of regulations in the public health sector. The capital continues to bear the brunt of the risks in China as the worldwide COVID pandemic rages, she said. Under the legislative work plan of the Standing Committee of the National Peoples Congress, we made a comprehensive review of local regulations in the public health sector in Beijing and plan to complete the legislation in two parts, Wang said. She said one part includes  items for legislation, which are scheduled to be reviewed next year, including draft regulations on public health emergencies, public security management at the citys hospitals, prevention and control of infectious diseases and traditional Chinese medicine. Another part of the legislation includes items that need to be further evaluated. These involve some local regulations to complete the public health emergency work and legislative research focusing on charities, social assistance and medical security. After the legislative work is completed, a sound system related with epidemic prevention and control will be in place, and some laws and regulations in public health sector will be further improved, Wang said.