Yangtze cruises resume, but with fewer passengers
2020-08-10 18:40
Yangtze  of Changjiang Overseas Cruise Travel will return to service on Aug . Photo provided to chinadaily.com.cn    A cruise ship set sail on Friday from Chongqings Chaotianmen port to Yichang, Hubei province, marking the restart of cruise tours on the Yangtze River. Because of the pandemic, cruises were suspended on Jan . On Friday, the cruise ship Yangtze Gold  of Chongqing Yangtze Gold Cruises made the industrys first voyage after the resumption of interprovincial tourism. The Yangtze is renowned for its long, rich history and beautiful scenery. It attracts millions of tourists from home and abroad every year. The Three Gorges  Qutang, Wu and Xiling  lie along about  kilometers of the river from Chongqings Fengjie county to Yichang, Hubei province. The cruise company complied with the epidemic prevention requirement that a ship may host no more than  percent of its passenger capacity. The Yangtze Gold  can carry  people, but allowed just  aboard on Friday. More than  people had signed up for the trip, the company said. Only individuals from lowrisk areas were permitted to buy cruise tickets. A personal temperature measurement, health QR code and an ID card or passport were required to board. Since February, seven cruise ships had been requisitioned to serve as water hotels for medical staff in Wuhan. Chongqings municipal bureau of transport said it has ensured that vessels and ports have been thoroughly disinfected. All crew members must test negative for COVID, while service vessels need to prepare necessary disinfection materials for passengers, Xinhua News Agency reported. As the first of the water hotels, the Blue Whale of Changjiang Overseas Cruise Travel remains on call in Yichangs Maoping port. But we are planning to resume our Yangtze  from Chongqing to Yichang on Aug , said Wang Kelun of Changjiang Overseas Cruise Travel. The Katarina of Victoria Cruises will return to service on August . The market recovery is slow at the moment, so we plan to resume only one ship every Monday until Sept ,  said Zhou Zhuo, general manager of the company.