Beijing lawmakers clarify scope of epidemic control
2020-02-07 18:17
Passengers wearing face masks arrive at the Beijing Railway Station in Beijing on Jan , . Photo by Zou HongChina Daily    The capitals lawmaking body passed a decision Friday clarifying the citys municipal government may restrict or stop crowd gathering activities, close or limit the use of activity places and implement quarantine measures for transport and sanitation in Beijing. The decision was made due to the outbreak of the novel coronavirus in the capital, to further control the epidemic and reduce the risk of infection, said Wang Rongmei, director of the Legal Office of the Standing Committee of the Beijing Municipal Peoples Congress. We are also trying to strengthen citizens legal awareness to make the public fully realize the responsibilities they should take for epidemic prevention. The decision also clarified the governments role in adopting relevant epidemic prevention and control measures, including issuing decisions and orders related to epidemic prevention, as well as adjusting implementation rules and supporting documents. According to the draft regulation, the city government may temporarily appropriate places, houses, transportation and related facilities and equipment when necessary in accordance with law. Personnel and stored materials may also be assembled or transferred. It also specified the township government and subdistrict office should take on its responsibilities, including organizing communities, property service enterprises and voluntary organizations to adopt prevention measures accordingly. Communities should obey requirements by the government and check flows in and out of neighborhoods through inspection. Health examinations are also required for residents in communities, and those who returned to their residences need to obey the municipal city governments regulation for management. For some illegal acts in the present situation , the regulation asked to further strengthen public security management as well as market supervision to fight violations and guarantee social order. Earlier on Friday, the Shanghai Municipal Peoples Congress passed a decision stating that individuals who decided to conceal their epidemic situation, or escape isolation and observation, will be added to the credit black list.