US no longer has the position of strength for its arrogance and impertinence
2021-08-10 14:53
General view of the ASEAN leaders meeting at the Association of Southeast Asian Nations ASEAN secretariat building in Jakarta, Indonesia, April , . PhotoAgencies    As an important platform for promoting solidarity and cooperation among countries in East Asia, the East Asian cooperation mechanism is supposed to focus on development and pragmatic cooperation. Unfortunately, certain countries outside the region always attempt to seek geopolitical interests through this platform. At the recentlyconcluded foreign ministers meetings on East Asia cooperation, the US frequently stirred up enmity and caused discord on the South China Sea issue, and attacked and defamed China regarding Chinas internal affairs. Clichs of the US havent been echoed by ASEAN countries, but instead made more people see clearly how the country has gone against the trend of global cooperation and its hegemonic mindset, arrogance and impertinence have fallen long behind the times. Recently, the US has arranged intensive activities concerning the ASEAN region, and claimed that these welldesigned activities are aimed at showing greater attention of the current US administration to the ASEAN. However, judging from the countrys frequently hyping up the socalled China threat and wantonly attacking and smearing China, the attention to the ASEAN claimed by the US has nothing to do with cooperation and development, but is merely a disguise. The true purpose of the attention is to incite division in the region and use ASEAN countries as a chess piece to serve the strategic goal of suppressing China, which ASEAN countries have been well aware of. It was not until after Washington positioned China as its major foreign policy challenge that Southeast Asian countries with more than  million people got attention from the US, pointed out a recent article published in Singaporean newspaper Lianhe Zaobao. Attempt of the US to stock bloc confrontation among countries in East Asia shows the countrys disregard of the current situation and general trend of cooperation among countries in the region. Over the past decades, ChinaASEAN relations have been constantly deepened and enjoyed allround development, become a fine example of the most successful and vibrant bilateral relations in the AsiaPacific, and served as an important pillar for peace, stability and prosperity in the region. The fruitful cooperation between the two sides after the outbreak of the COVID pandemic has been an example of international cooperation on fighting the pandemic and promoting economic recovery. China has by far provided over  million doses of COVID vaccines for ASEAN countries. Trade volume between China and the ASEAN during the first half of this year surpassed  billion, up . percent year on year. ASEAN has remained Chinas largest trading partner, and the accumulated twoway investment between the two sides has exceeded  billion. The entry into force and implementation of the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership RCEP agreement has brought more powerful driving force to the economic and trade cooperation between the two sides. Secretarygeneral of the ASEAN Lim Jock Hoi pointed out that the ASEANChina strategic partnership has become one of the most substantive and dynamic partnerships in the region. It serves the common interests of all countries in the region to accommodate the aspirations and interests of all parties, promote common security, and achieve lasting peace and stability in the region. What the US has done poses a risk of the return of geopolitics to the region, and therefore naturally wont win the support of ASEAN countries. Many US friends and allies wish to preserve their extensive ties with both powers China and the US, stressed Singaporean Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong recently. The US, however, turns a blind eye to such desire and still thinks it is able to create a ring of encirclement against China in the region. Such wishful thinking has revealed the arrogance and bigotry of the US and proven that the Cold War mentality the country has stuck to is outdated. At the recent foreign ministers meetings on East Asia cooperation, foreign ministers of many countries in the region have echoed and supported Chinas position, which has fully demonstrated that as time goes by, the region no longer has lecturers or needs saviors, and that countries are well aware that they should grasp their future in their own hands and jointly create the prospect of the region. After its attempt to suppress and contain China was rebuffed constantly, the US should have known that it needs to alter its fundamental strategy toward China and abandon the wrong mentality of viewing China as an imaginary enemy. Countries in the region have formed close cooperative ties with China, and therefore the US must take into consideration the interests of its partners when making foreign policies, and couldnt just impose its own desires on them, said former US Ambassador to China Stapleton Roy. The diplomatic agenda of the US has been totally plunged into the mire of suppressing and containing China, which has not only impacted on regional and international landscape, but caused tremendous damage to the interests of the US itself. At present, the US is faced with deteriorating COVID situation at home, with the daily tally of new COVID infections exceeding , on average. The US government should focus its energy on coping with the pandemic, safeguarding the health of American people, and intensifying international antiepidemic cooperation, rather than the vain attempt to suppress China. Joseph Nye, a professor at Harvard University, recently warned in an article that the concept of greatpower rivalry provides an insufficient alert to a new type of threat the US faces, and that the current US strategy results in a Pentagon budget that is more than  times that of the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Although the US frequently claims that it deals with China from a position of strength, the socalled position of strength can be supported by neither domestic nor global realities. The US can never change China, and will by no means obstruct or interrupt Chinas course of modernization. The world needs China and the US to find through dialogue a way of peaceful coexistence and even mutually beneficial and winwin cooperation though the two countries are so different in their social systems, culture, and development stages. The US side should change its course as soon as possible, choose to meet China halfway and pursue mutual respect, fair competition, and peaceful coexistence with China. Zhong Sheng is a pen name often used by Peoples Daily to express its views on Chinas foreign policy and international affairs.