Beijing conducts mass testing
2020-06-16 06:59
Residents undergo nucleic acid tests for COVID on Monday night at a stadium in Beijings Xicheng district.?Photo by Zou HongChina Daily    Beijing tightened measures to cope with the new cluster of local COVID infections as the number of confirmed cases in the city rose to  from Thursday to Sunday and up to , social workers joined communities epidemic control work. The capital reported  new patients with COVID on Sunday, the majority of whom worked at or had been to Xinfadi wholesale market in Beijings southern Fengtai district. In addition to the confirmed cases, another seven are asymptomatic infections under medical observation. Xu Hejian, a spokesman for the municipal government, said this outbreak is closely related to the Xinfadi market, and the government will employ the strictest investigation to find the source of the infection and curb the spread of the virus. Nearly , people who run businesses or make purchases in Xinfadi had received nucleic acid tests by Sunday and have been transferred to isolation locations for centralized medical observation. Up to , residents living in  communities near Xinfadi and Yuquandonganother market whose operations have been suspended due to the new COVID infections in the capitalare receiving nucleic acid tests. All those communities are closed and under strict management. Around , people had been to Xinfadi since May  based on a citywide data collection campaign. Those people will get nucleic acid tests and, meanwhile, must stay at home for selfobservation. By  pm on Sunday, we had completed nucleic acid testing for , people who had visited the Xinfadi market in the past  days, said Gao Xiaojun, a spokesman for the Beijing Health Commission. Out of all the samples, , came negative and the rest are awaiting results. Beijing will raise the prevention level of all communities by resuming temperature checks before entering and disinfection of public areas, said Xu Ying, an official at the citys antivirus leading work group. Places for cultural events and entertainment will suspend operations, Xu added. He said that on Monday, nearly , social workers were mobilized in , communities and villages in Beijing to help fight COVID.