Beijing  prepares for adapted testing program amid pandemic countermeasures
2020-11-26 11:06
The National Sliding Center?will host the bobsleigh, skeleton and luge competitions during Beijing  Olympic Winter Games. PhotoXinhua    BEIJING  International test events for the  Winter Olympic and Paralympic Games in Beijing are set to be replaced by an adapted testing program because of the COVID pandemic. As global travel restrictions are largely likely to remain for the coming months, Beijing  organizers have decided to cancel a series of test events that had been planned for the first quarter of next year. The four parties involved are the Beijing  organizing committee BOCOG, the Winter Olympic International Federations, the International Olympic Committee IOC and the International Paralympic Committee IPC. It doesnt mean that there will be no tests for our venues and games operation, a top BOCOG official told Xinhua. We now enter into discussions with each international federation to determine the details of the adapted testing program, in liaison with the IOC and the IPC. It is understood that facilities and services will be put through their paces, but not necessarily in an international competition format. ADAPTING TO CHANGES A COVID countermeasures working group has been set up for Beijing , following a virtual joint project review by the IOC, IPC and the Beijing  organizing committee. Acknowledging the difficulties experienced this year, the progress being made by Beijing  has been remarkable, IOC Coordination Commission chairman Juan Antonio Samaranch said during the review meeting. This has been reflected through positive feedback from several international federations that have visited Beijing in recent weeks. There will be challenges ahead, however, which is why  through, for example, the COVID countermeasure working group  we are fully preparing for all eventualities, he added. By Tuesday, the International Skating Union, the International Biathlon Union ISU, the World Curling Federation WCF, the International Ice Hockey Federation IIHF and the International Ski Federation ISF had revised their calendar for the  season with multiple events originally scheduled in China either postponed or canceled. With more possible changes to come, BOCOG is keeping close communications with the international federations to figure out, casebycase, suitable testing programs for each discipline that is safe under the current COVID situation, BOCOG said. According to BOCOG, the Chinese government has coordinated resources at a national level and established a health coordination group for Beijing , an epidemic prevention and control task force and an expert panel to work on COVID countermeasures. We strive to overcome various difficulties and have made solid progress. In the coming days, facing the new situation and challenges, cooperation among all parties will be even further strengthened, thus laying a solid foundation for a successful Beijing  Games, said BOCOG executive vice president Zhang Jiandong. PROGRESS THROUGH DIFFICULTY Despite the pandemic, Beijing  reported that construction of competition venues remained on track to be completed by the end of this year. The progress was confirmed following a number of recent visits to the venues by international federations, including the International Bobsleigh and Skeleton Federation, the International Luge Federation, the International Biathlon Union, the World Curling Federation, the International Skating Union and the International Ski Federation. A highlight was the successful prehomologation test runs of the National Sliding Center, which will host the bobsleigh, skeleton and luge competitions during the  Winter Games. Test runs were carried out by the Chinese bobsleigh and skeleton teams, as well as luge athletes from overseas. We have seen an excellentlyprepared track and were impressed by the smooth and perfectlyorganized event which was held under strict hygiene measurements due to the COVID pandemic. This was definitely the most impressive prehomologation we have seen, IBSF President Ivo Ferriani said after his technical inspection. I want to thank the Beijing  organizing committee for the outstanding work they have done so far. Additionally, huge thanks to the Chinese national athletes and their coaches for conducting the test runs, he added. Stretching . kilometers, the tracks are the first ever in China and the third in Asia for the sport. The National Speed Skating Oval, the National Alpine Ski Center and the National Ski Jumping Center also impressed officials and experts of the relevant international federations. It was truly impressive to see the jumping hill and crosscountry stadium in their finished shape and form. We are currently having productive meetings with the local organizing committee which will benefit us greatly for the test events and Olympic Games to come, said Nordic Combined Race Director Lasse Ottesen. Beijing  also released the seventh edition of its competition schedule last week after approval by the IOC. Curlings mixed doubles will be the Games first event of  across  disciplines in seven sports. A milestone in media operation was reached earlier in October when the virtual World Press Briefing WPB for Beijing  welcomed over  representatives. With onsite visit impossible, BOCOG combined panorama pictures and D simulation display to enable the participants to have a real venue tour. I think BOCOG did an amazing job under the circumstances. We are very much looking forward to visiting at some point before the games, said Michael Heiman, vice president of Global Editorial Operations of Getty Images. MAKING VISION A REALITY Although last winter season was seriously hit by the pandemic, sports events are returning to normal amid Chinas stringent epidemic prevention and control measures. Earlier this month, the Cup of China ISU Grand Prix of Figure Skating was held in Chongqing, which not only provided event operation experience for other ice competitions, but also helped promote the winter sport in the southwest Chinese city. With some  days to go before Beijing  opens on February , , the vision to engage  million people across China in winter sports is gradually becoming reality. In Chongli, which will host six disciplines during the  Winter Olympics, the ski resorts have been open to the public since midOctober, and a large number of ski enthusiasts have poured in to share the fun of ice and snow sports. Zhao Qiong, a marketing manager of the Chongli Secret Garden ski resort, told Xinhua he was totally astonished by the significant boost of income during this years Double  online shopping festival on November . In Zhaos estimation, two million RMB , US dollars in sales income would have satisfied him. However, he saw the amount quickly exceed this, finally climbing over . million RMB . million dollars, representing a yearonyear increase of  percent. Just like the Secret Garden resort, many other companies from the ski industry joined Chinas annual Singles Day shopping festival  so called because November  represents four single s  and profited from the growing interest in winter sports. According to data from Alibabas ecommerce platform Tmall, overall sales income of ski equipment increased  percent during this years Double  compared with , among which ski boots marked the most significant boost of  percent. Winter sportsrelated tourism products also enjoyed yearonyear growth of  percent. The Olympic spirit encourages young people and much of the general public to participate in sport. We just want to let more people love winter sports and enjoy the Winter Olympics, said Yang Yang, Chinas first Winter Games gold medalist.