Beijing  gets its skates on
2021-10-12 09:23
International experts are cooperating with domestic staff at ice sports venues to ensure the safe and smooth running of next years Winter Olympics.?XINHUA    International athletes braced for key ice sports test events as organizers finetune Winter Games operations With international athletes ready to do battle for Olympic qualification spots, the Capital Indoor Stadium is set to host one of Beijing s most anticipated and competitive test events. Beginning on Wednesday, the fourday figure skating Asian Open will draw international attention to the venue for the first time since the completion of its refurbishment in December, followed by an eyecatching shorttrack speed skating World Cup legthe first of four Olympic qualifying events this seasonfrom Oct . Built in  as one of Chinas oldest multipurpose sports venues, the iconic gymnasium in downtown Beijing will test operations such as icemaking, timing and scoring, COVID containment, security, and transport as it prepares to host the two skating sports at next years Winter Olympics. A total of  athletes from nine countries and regions across the continent have signed up for the figure skating meet, while the shorttrack event is expected to see  skaters vie for Olympic qualification points across all nine disciplines for next years Games, which open on Feb . All the  shorttrack speed skating qualification quotas for Beijing  will be decided by a series of four World Cup events through Nov . The complexity of hosting international visitors in large groups for the first time amid the pandemic, coupled with the technical challenges of running competitions up to Gamestime standards, will help train operational staff and also identify any areas to improve on, according to organizers. With support from the Beijing  organizing committee and local government, we are putting the finishing touches to the preparatory work with efficiency and quality, said Lan Li, deputy director of the venues operational team, at a news conference on Monday. The magnitude of organization for the test events, especially the World Cup, is something that weve never experienced. Yet, having learned from an earlier test activity, our team is ready to stage safe, exciting and productive test events this time. As part of venue trials in April, the Capital Indoor Stadium tested one of its key operationstransitioning the rink between shorttrack and figure skating sessions within two hours, as will happen at next years Games. The key task this time though will be running Gamestime COVID protocols following a set of policies announced by Beijing  last month to collect feedback from foreign athletes, team officials and technical delegates. As adopted during last weeks speed skating China Open, all participants for the next two events will be subject to management within a biosecure bubble with access only allowed to the gymnasium and hotels via designated shuttle services. The use of certain hightech health monitoring and disinfection devices is expected to make a difference for safer and more reliable pandemic containment, said the organizing committees public health consultant. To handle all kinds of possible scenarios, we have put in place some advanced equipments for largescale monitoring and instant response. Weve also set up an experienced team and put contingency plans in place to deal with whatever situations might occur, said Li Jintao, director of the health commission of Beijings Haidian district, where the gymnasium is located. To reduce the number of operational staff and service volunteers, artificial intelligence robots will operate  hours a day at venues and hotels to sterilize and monitor the environment against COVID infection. Over  wearable thermometers, each featuring a fingernailsized chip that sticks to a users skin to report any significant body temperature rises, will be handed out to participants to allow the medical and epidemic control team to immediately identify any risks.