Barefoot doctors safeguard health of villagers
2021-11-11 14:57
Ma Wenfang measures the blood pressure of a patient on Jan , . PhotoChina News Service    After serving as a rural doctor for  years, Ma Wenfang still prefers to be called a barefoot doctor. Barefoot doctors were?healthcare workers trained to attend the basic medical needs of Chinas vast rural population from the s to s. Back in the s and s, there was no doctor in our village, Ma, who is from Liuzhuang village in Tongxu county of Central Chinas Henan province, was quoted as saying by China Newsweek. For the villagers with minor ailments, it was common for them to carry on and wait for the diseases to recede, according to Ma. For those with severe conditions, the welloff ones could go to see doctors at urban hospitals and the poor could only wait for death. Mas mother died of typhoid at the age . His yearold younger brother also succumbed to the disease in less than two months. Having witnessed his beloved ones die in succession, Ma made up his mind to become a doctor. The country was then beset with acute shortage of trained doctors and medicines. And health workers were disproportionately concentrated in urban areas. Statistics show that in , about  percent of the nations senior health workers were based in cities  where  percent of the national population lived  while  percent of the medics worked in the countryside, where over  percent of the population resided. After the founding of the Peoples Republic of China in , the nation started exploring a rural healthcare system suitable for its conditions. On top of building clinics in the countryside, the health authorities also sent mobile medical teams from urban hospitals to bring health services to rural residents. For quite a long period of time, however, these medical visits were organized on an irregular basis, and there was no systematic healthcare network in the vast rural areas. In , Chairman Mao Zedong, who was unhappy about the disparity in healthcare services between urban and rural areas, ordered the health authorities to shift the focus of medical and health work to the countryside and cultivate a large group of physicians affordable to rural areas to serve the peasants. In , a pilot program to cultivate rural health workers was launched in Jiangzhen Commune of Shanghai. Commune was the highest of the three administrative levels of Chinas rural areas from late s to early s. The monthlong training course produced the countrys first batch of barefoot doctors, a name derived from the fact that these health workers also worked in the fields in addition to treating illnesses. The pattern quickly spread nationwide. By the end of , the countrys barefoot doctors numbered more than . million. After graduating from a junior middle school in , Ma Wenfang went to receive medical training as a barefoot doctor. He learned both Western medicine, including anatomy and physiology, as well as traditional Chinese medicine such as the use of medicinal herbs and acupuncture. During the era of the Peoples Commune, rural residents earned work points, instead of cash payment, a measurement of how much they contributed to the production brigade  the administrative level lower than the commune  they belonged to.