Backbone of the nation bears load
2021-04-22 10:22
China has shown its support for Pakistan in the coronavirus pandemic with deliveries of vaccines, such as this shipment that arrived at the Noor Khan Air Base near Islamabad on Feb .?LIU TIANXINHUA    Party has never eased up in quest to lift up the people, Pakistani scholar says Editors Note Many people from overseas have made a contribution to Chinas development over the years. As China celebrates the th anniversary of the founding of the Communist Party of China, China Daily looks at the lives and contributions of these friends from afar, whove not only witnessed, but also participated in, the countrys transformation over the years. Chinas dramatic progress in lifting up its people over the decades attests to the Communist Party of Chinas role as the backbone of the country in driving economic development, according to an international relations expert in Pakistan. Talat Shabbir, director of the ChinaPakistan Study Centre at the Institute of Strategic Studies Islamabad, points to achievements such as poverty alleviation as underscoring the Partys credentials. Under the leadership of the CPC, China is by far a bettergoverned country, and a more peaceful and prosperous country, Shabbir says. Noting that the CPC has been pursuing a policy of strengthening the development of China by transforming and reforming it, Shabbir says the CPC is playing a very important role in Chinas achievements. China is a huge country and the CPC is the backbone of China, he says. From standing up, growing rich to becoming strong, China has realized great leaps one after another under the leadership of the CPC and has become the worlds secondlargest economy. He also points to the transformation of Chinas major cities, which have achieved worldclass levels in science and technology. However, he notes the Communist Party has been the subject of false accusations. The CPC leadership has withstood groundless accusations and attacks on China, especially the constant smear campaign against the CPC, Shabbir says. But it has pressed ahead with its agenda, and the most remarkable achievement that China has made under the Partys leadership is poverty alleviation, he says.