B.. coronavirus variant spreading in Africa
2021-05-14 19:44
A woman receives a shot of COVID vaccine in Johannesburg, South Africa, on April , . PhotoXinhua    The highly contagious triplemutant B.. coronavirus variant, first detected in India in December , has so far been reported in six African countries. According to the Africa Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the variant, which is responsible for Indias devastating second wave of COVID, has been reported in Angola, the Democratic Republic of Congo, Kenya, Morocco, South Africa and Uganda. John Nkengasong, director of the Africa CDC, said the health agency was putting measures in place to ensure the continent avoids a devastating wave of the variant similar to Indias case. Wed better be overprepared than surprised, Nkengasong said during a virtual weekly news briefing on Thursday. The variant that has so far spread in  countries across the globe was first detected in Africa on April  in Uganda. It was then detected in Kenya on May , in five cases who were Indian travelers working in the western part of the country. The total number of cases from the mutation has since risen to . According to Rashid Aman, the chief administrative secretary of health, the ministry is planning to enhance its surveillance system to be able to identify the variants. He called on the public to continue adhering to the health measures of observing social distancing, hands hygiene and wearing face masks, terming them as effective prevention measures. On May  Zweli Mkhize, minister of health in South Africa, announced the country had detected four cases of B... Two of the cases were detected in Gauteng, with the others detected in KwaZuluNatal province. Mkhize said all the cases were recent arrivals from India and had been isolated and managed according to national COVID case management guidelines. He added contact tracing has been performed in order to limit the spread of the variant. As the epidemic progresses, the detection of new variants is inevitable. The work of genomic surveillance assists us to detect the variants, understand their behavior and refine vaccines so they remain effective, Mkhize said. The World Health Organization has classified the B.. variant as a variant of global concern due to its increased transmissibility. Several African countries have also reported cases of B... and B.. coronavirus variants, first detected in United Kingdom and South Africa, respectively. Angola, DR Congo, South Africa and Kenya have reported all three coronavirus variants. As of May , a total of more than . million vaccine doses had been acquired by AU member states, with approximately . million doses administered. It corresponds to a coverage rate of . percent at the continental level, with . percent of the population having received a full vaccine regimen. Nkengasong said AU member states have so far used . percent of the available vaccine supply.