Automakers join fight against epidemic
2020-03-02 10:42
The Audi AL production line at the FAWVolkswagen Changchun plant PhotoJilin Daily    Chinese and foreign car companies are making great financial contributions to help combat the novel coronavirus outbreak that has killed over , in the country. By the end of February, more than  carmakers, auto suppliers and associations had donated more than  million yuan . million as well as supplies, including face masks and even ambulances. German car group Volkswagen AG, with its Chinese joint ventures FAWVolkswagen and SAIC Volkswagen, has donated  million yuan. We have to play our part to prevent this medical disaster from turning into a socioeconomic breakdown, said Volkswagen Group China CEO Stephan Wollenstein. Only by doing so, we can minimize the damage to Chinas foundation for development its prosperous economy. Volkswagen Group delivered . million vehicles in China last year, accounting for . percent of its global sales. BMW and its joint venture BMW Brilliance have donated  million yuan since the outbreak of the epidemic to support virusprevention efforts. We have full trust in the Chinese government that they are capable of managing the crisis and defeating the epidemic, said Jochen Goller, president and CEO of BMW China. Furthermore we remain very confident in the medium and longterm business outlook of our No  worldwide market. BMW reopened its offices across the country for business on Feb , and BMW Brilliance plants in Shenyang, Liaoning province, have gradually resumed production as well. MercedesBenz and its dealers have donated  million yuan to improve epidemic prevention in designated hospitals in Wuhan and other cities in Hubei province. Hubertus Troska, a board member of parent company Daimler AG responsible for China region, said the company will further intensify its social responsibilities and stand with all segments of society to overcome the challenges. I firmly believe that with Chinas commitment and strength, the entire society as well as the Chinese automobile industry will win the battle against the current challenge, he said. Chinese auto companies have made greater contributions, too. Zhejiang Geely Holding Group has set up a special fund of  million yuan to help prevent and control the epidemic. It has donated its  MPVs, valued at more than  million yuan, to around  cities nationwide. Electric vehicle maker Evergrande has donated  million yuan and , tons of vegetables to Wuhan. On Feb , the company donated another  million yuan to the Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences for antivirus research and to establish a drugresearch fund. Stateowned car company Dongfeng Motor Corporation, its joint ventures and its brands have donated money and supplies valued at more than  million yuan. FAW, with its joint ventures and Hongqi brand, donated  million yuna in total. In addition to the donations, some companies, including GAC, BYD, SAICGMWuling and Changan, are producing face masks in their plants to provide supplies for epidemic prevention and control. SAICGMWuling is aiming to complete  production lines by the end of February, which can produce . million masks every day. Shi Jianhua, deputy secretarygeneral of the China Association of Automobile Manufacturers, said that the auto industry is a highly industrialized industry with a high level of automation and manufacturing capability. He said it is socially responsible to establish maskproduction lines while the country is urgently in need.