US House passes antihate crime bill
2021-05-19 11:14
US Capitol in Washington DC. PhotoAgencies    The US House of Representatives on Tuesday passed a bill aimed at addressing the rise in antiAsian hate crimes since the COVID pandemic began. The bill, which passed  to , establishes a point person at the Justice Department who would review bias incidents reported to law enforcement agencies and provide more guidance to state and local entities to make it easier to report hate crimes. The bill also would expand public education campaigns designed to increase awareness and allow the attorney general to provide grants to states for training on hate crimesdata collection, reporting and response. It doesnt authorize any new money for the grants. This epidemic of antiAAPI bigotry is a challenge to the conscience of our country, which demands bold, effective action, House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, Democrat of California, said at a news conference Tuesday. The COVID Hate Crimes Act will strengthen our defenses to prevent, report and combat antiAAPI violence. The bill, introduced by Democratic Senator Mazie Hirono of Hawaii and Democratic Representative Grace Meng of New York, passed the Senate  to  last month. It now goes to President Joe Biden for his signature. The Biden administration has been working with Congress to expand the law enforcement response to the increase in incidents.? It shows just how much the near daily tragedies of antiAsian violence have shocked our nation into action, said California Democratic Representative Judy Chu of the Senate vote, at the news conference. Chu serves as chair of the Congressional Asian Pacific American Caucus. On Wednesday, the House is scheduled to vote on a resolution sponsored by Chu condemning the shootings of several people, primarily women of Asian descent, in spas in the Atlanta area on March . Ahead of the vote, House Democrats said the legislation will address and help prevent the spate of attacks against Asian Americans. Meng, who represents the Flushing district in Queens, which has a large AsianAmerican population, said her community has faced despicable and sickening acts of hate and violence over the last year and a half. Those of Asian descent have been blamed and scapegoated for the outbreak of COVID, and as a result, Asian Americans have been beaten, slashed, spat on, and even set on fire and killed, Meng said at a news conference, flanked by her colleagues. The Asian American community is exhausted from being forced to endure this rise in bigotry and racist attacks.