Attractions continue to reopen nationwide
2020-03-24 08:11
Wulongtan Park in Jinan, Shandong province, is among a growing number of tourism spots that are reopening as the COVID epidemic increasingly comes under control in China.PhotoXinhua    A growing number of tourism spots are reopening and travel restrictions are being loosened as the COVID epidemic increasingly comes under control in China. The National Health Commission received reports of  new confirmed cases on the Chinese mainland on Monday, all of which were imported. No new domestically transmitted cases were reported. A total of eight museums, including Shenyang Palace Museum, the imperial palace of several Qing Dynasty  emperors, reopened to the public last week in Shenyang, capital of Northeast Chinas Liaoning province, after months of being shut down. However, with the threat of crossinfection still a danger, visitors must have their temperatures checked on arrival, maintain a mutual distance of no less than . meters in lines and wear masks. Museum authorities also took such measures as requiring realtime reservations, controlling visitor numbers and limiting opening hours to avoid overcrowding. Daily visitor numbers have been capped at ,. I feel assured by the museums preventive measures, says Shenyang resident Zhao Yan. My family canceled our travel plans during the Spring Festival holiday. When the outbreak is over, we want to travel and relax. Over  destinations have resumed normal operations in Northwest Chinas Xinjiang Uygur autonomous region. Many ski resorts have exempted or halved entrance fees to attract visitors. Many provinciallevel regions have introduced a healthcode monitoring system to control peoples movements. The tourists with green codes can make reservations online and enjoy free skiing if they stay in certain hotels, says Liang Jing, manager of Jiangjunshan ski resort. Liang says the resort is temporarily closed to visitors who came from areas where the virus hit hard or have returned from abroad in the previous two weeks. Most of Shanghais top tourist attractions and all of its libraries had resumed business as of Wednesday. In early March, Shanghai Disney Resort partially resumed operations, with each of the reopened attractions running at limited visitor capacity and reduced hours.