Applications to get COVID vaccination rising
2020-12-30 16:54
Wu Ni takes a trial vaccine shot in Wuhan, Hubei province, during the height of the COVID epidemic in March. She was one of the first volunteers in a clinical trial for a COVID vaccine in China. Photo by ZHU XINGXINCHINA DAILY    Policies released by more domestic cities on COVID vaccination are bringing hope to those who need protection. I hope to get inoculated with the COVID vaccine as soon as possible. Then I dont need to present a nucleic acid test each time I get a new job, said a yearold housekeeping service attendant surnamed Wang in Wuhan city, Central Chinas Hubei province. The vaccination, available at  designated clinics in  districts in Wuhan, has set a target on some key groups of people aged between  and , including those who work in the sectors of food storage and transportation, quarantine facilities and border inspection, as well as those who need to work in countries and regions with high or medium risks of getting infected by COVID, according to the Center for Disease Control and Prevention in Wuhan. I want to take the vaccine very much to keep me safe from infection risks. But I havent been informed when I can apply for the vaccine, said the yearold Li, who works in a community in Wuhan. In addition to Wuhan, several provinces, including East Chinas Zhejiang and Shandong, South Chinas Guangdong and Southwest Chinas Sichuan, as well as the cities of Shanghai and Shenzhen, have released policies on COVID vaccination, targeting similar groups as Wuhan. Over , people in China have been inoculated with COVID vaccines since July, the Beijingbased newspaper Health Times reported on Wednesday. In Jinan Hospital, one of the two designated hospitals for COVID vaccination in Jinan, Shandong province, many people were applying for vaccination, keeping staff busy with taking appointment calls all day long on Tuesday. Those receiving the vaccine need to take two shots with an interval of four weeks between injections. Xia Xiaobei pseudonym as requested, , who works at a central Stateowned enterprise, took the two shots in September and October in an emergency vaccination program in Wuhan because part of his job involves working abroad. No special reactions occurred after I took the vaccines. A few of my colleagues felt a little pain and light fever, but they recovered totally in one or two days, he said.