Ancient wisdom helps in pandemic fight
2020-05-29 08:31
An yearold COVID patient is the first to be discharged from Leishenshan Hospital in Wuhan, Hubei province, on Feb . Photo by?Wang JingChina Daily    Traditional culture playing a vital role The COVID pandemic has largely been brought under control in China, with many scholars believing that traditional culture has played an important role in shaping peoples response to it. In February, after a field investigation to Wuhan, Hubei province, by the World Health Organization, assistant directorgeneral Bruce Aylward said China had demonstrated phenomenal collective action and a cooperative spirit in fighting the virus. Behind every window in every skyscraper, there are people cooperating with this response, the Canadian epidemiologist said. Speaking at a recent edition of Vision China organized by China Daily and Tsinghua University, Aylward said Chinese peoples sense of social responsibility, which is embedded in the nations culture, and their experiences in fighting the severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS, outbreak in  are key elements of the countrys efforts to tackle the virus. David Gosset, founder of the EuropeChina Forum, said the cultural element is of the greatest importance in such a unified and rapid response. In the Chinese context, it can be said that traditional values inspired by Confucianism... helped China in its battle against COVID, Gosset said. Culture has been underestimated by commentators, while it has arguably played the most important role in shaping global reactions to events. Less visible than economic dynamics or even political structures or processes, culture is nevertheless what determines the behavior of individuals. Four factors in traditional philosophydayitong great unification, jiaguo tonggou family and state are the same, filial piety and tianxia all under the heavenhave influenced the countrys response to the pandemic, according to scholars. Mario Cavolo, a nonresident senior fellow at the Center for China and Globalization, said,In a further examination of the values at the root of achievements made in the fight against the pandemic, we find a historical source driving values, attitudes, and ultimately, our behavior. In Europe, for example, we find JudeoChristian ethics and religions, while some countries prefer a more postModern Era neoliberal set of values, he said. Gosset said,As a major global crisis, this pandemic has revealed many aspects of our modernity, and certainly that the world is not culturally uniform. It has indeed to be understood as the juxtaposition of several different cultural contexts.