Ambassador to UK calls for support in nations efforts to combat outbreak
2020-02-07 07:20
Chinas ambassador to the United Kingdom Liu Xiaoming. PhotoChina Daily    Chinas ambassador to the United Kingdom has called on all nations to support the fight against the outbreak of novel coronavirus and urged that people refrain from panicking, because the illness is preventable, controllable, and curable. Liu Xiaoming said It is our hope that the governments of all countries, including the UK, should understand and support Chinas efforts, respect the professional advice of the WHO, avoid overreaction, avoid creating panic, and ensure normal cooperation and exchanges between countries. He noted during a news conference within Chinas London embassy on Thursday that, since the outbreak began, the government has attached great importance to epidemic prevention and control and that the nation has demonstrated a great sense of responsibility, from the national level all the way to the grassroots communities. Since the outbreak began, two hospitals were built in a matter of around  days in Wuhan, the capital of Central Chinas Hubei province. The city is at the heart of the outbreak and the hospitals are part of the massive effort to contain the virus and treat people affected by it. At least , medical workers from  provinces, municipalities, and autonomous regions have traveled to Hubei to help with the effort. Some volunteers are veterans of the fight against SARS in . In addition to taking comprehensive and strict measures domestically, Chinas government has attached great importance to enhancing international cooperation with the World Health Organization and other nations, Liu noted. He said the speed at which China detected the outbreak, isolated the virus, sequenced the genome, and shared the information with the WHO and the rest of the world was greatly appreciated. China has also offered some countries, including the UK, assistance in evacuation of their nationals, Liu added while noting that the nation values the safety of foreign nationals living in China and is responsible in cooperation with the world. In order to prevent and control the virus, the banning of public gatherings and reduced transportation in major cities has affected the service sector in Chinas economy, including tourism, hospitality, catering, and entertainment, especially in light of the fact that the outbreak impacted the Spring Festival holiday, which is one of the busiest times for the nations service industry. But the impact will be shortterm and temporary, he said. It will not change the fundamentals of Chinas economy, which will maintain sound growth in the long run. Chinas economy is highly resilient and has enormous potential for growth in the longterm. China has the capability and confidence to minimize the economic impact of the epidemic. He also suggested that understanding of the epidemic should be objective and reasonable, and called for fair media reports. The issue of public health goes beyond national borders and requires joint efforts from all sides, including the media, who should take up their due social responsibilities in this battle against the common enemy of mankind, Liu said. He added that we should join hands to oppose any insulting or discriminatory words and behaviors, referencing recently reported cases in which overseas Chinese people had become the target of racist abuse linked to the outbreak. This is time for reason and coolheadedness this is time for a scientific approach and reasonable response, he added.