All the worlds a stage for domestic film industry
2021-02-18 07:25
A scene from   Detective Chinatown . Photo provided to China Daily    The Chinese mainlands film market has seen a boom during the Spring Festival holiday, with the total box office collection hitting . billion yuan . billion as of Wednesday afternoon. Insiders estimate that this years Spring Festival will prove to be the biggest season for Chinas film industry, thanks to the release of seven successful films and the government proposal asking people to remain in the cities where they work instead of visiting their hometowns, thus reducing virus transmission risks. The outbreak of the novel coronavirus in  hugely impacted Chinas film market. Cinemas nationwide reopened in late July after the epidemic was largely brought under control, but most of them had seen almost zero revenues in the preceding six months. According to a recent report,  of the  listed film companies suffered losses in . Wanda Film, one of the leading film companies, had an operating income between . billion yuan and . billion yuan in , a yearonyear decrease of more than  percent, or more than  billion yuan in losses. Other major film companies, too, suffered losses. Therefore, the booming period during the Spring Festival holiday should give the film industry a shot in the arm, aiding its recovery. The holiday period saw many new films of different genres being screened. Detective Chinatown  broke the total presale record for both firstday and singleday box offices in Chinas film market. Hi, Mom has seen steady growth and is expected to surpass Detective Chinatown  at the box office. Thanks to Chinas epidemic prevention and control measures, the total box office collection from domestic cinemas reached . billion yuan in , surpassing that of North America to become the worlds largest film market for the first time. This years strongest Spring Festival season has signaled a good start for the domestic film market. Given that Chinas film market has huge potential, Chinese filmmakers should try to capture the worlds largest market with highquality works, telling Chinas stories and promoting Chinese culture.