Africa records decreased new COVID cases, countries express interest in COVAX
2020-09-06 17:40
A volunteer receives an injection from a medical worker during the countrys first human clinical trial for a potential vaccine against the COVID, at the Baragwanath hospital in Soweto, South Africa, on June , . File photoAgencies    The rate of new confirmed coronavirus cases in Africa has been decreasing significantly in the past one month, raising hopes that the continent is on the path toward winning the battle against the virus. According to the Africa Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, over the past four weeks, the continent recorded an average of  percent drop in the number of new cases each week. The central Africa region recorded the highest rate of decrease at  percent, followed by the southern region at  percent, western region  percent and eastern region . percent. South Africa, the most affected country in the continent, continues to lead in the rate of new cases, having recorded , cases between Aug  and Sept . However, nationally, the country is recording declining rates of new infections compared to the previous weeks, with the rate standing at  percent by Sept , according to the Ministry of Health. On July , which corresponded with the peak of the pandemic in South Africa, the country recorded the highest rate of new infections at  percent. Dr Zwelini Mkhize, the minister of health, said the number of active cases in the country had dropped from , on Aug  to , on Sept , translating to a  percent decrease. In the world ranking of total number of cases per country, South Africa has fallen from fifth to seventh position. In terms of cumulative number of coronavirus related deaths, the country ranks . Dr Mkhize said unnatural deaths in the country had increased, following the easing of alcohol restrictions. Basically, South Africa has eased most of the restrictions. We have been very concerned to see videos on social media of people hosting large parties and going to shebeens, taverns and bars beyond the curfew. We urge our people to continue observing health protocols such as social distancing, wearing of masks, sanitizing and washing of hands, he said. Dr Mkhize cautioned the public members against sharing of drinks, cigarettes, cigars and shisha pipes. Be aware that if you do this you have directly put yourself at risk. While socializing and having fun, do not let your guard down and put your life and the lives of your loved ones at risk. The threat of a second wave remains very real, he said. According to the Africa CDC, Africa accounts for  percent of the cases and  percent of deaths reported globally. So far, the continent has recorded almost . million infected cases and over , deaths. Globally, the number of confirmed cases stands at over  million and , deaths. Additionally, the continent has recorded over  million recoveries, accounting for  percent of the total cases reported. Meanwhile, all the African countries have expressed interest in COVAX, a global initiative that seeks to ensure coronavirus vaccine access to all. The initiative aims to secure at least  million doses of the vaccine for the continent, once licensed and approved. Through the Gavicoordinated COVAX Facility, the initiative seeks to ensure access for all both higher and middleincome countries which will selffinance their own participation, and lowermiddle income and lowincome countries which will have their participation supported by the COVAX Advance Market Commitment. Eight African countries have agreed to selffinance their vaccine doses through the COVAX Facility. This expression of interest will turn into binding commitments to join the initiative by Sept , with upfront payments to follow no later than Oct . Additionally,  countries in the continent are eligible for support from the financing instrument, the COVAX Advance Market Commitment which has raised approximately  million against an initial target of securing  billion seed funding from highincome donor countries, as well as private sector and philanthropists by the end of . The Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations is leading COVAX vaccine research and aims to develop up to three safe and effective vaccines which will be made available to countries participating in the COVAX Facility. The foundation is already supporting nine candidate vaccines two are currently being tested in South Africa, in addition to other regions around the world.