Academician touts techs role in COVID battle
2020-09-22 09:34
Li Lanjuan delivers a speech at an innovative development forum in Mianyang, Sichuan province, on Monday. XIAO YUYANGFOR CHINA DAILY    China is a model of global epidemic prevention and control in the fight against COVID, said Li Lanjuan, an academician of the Chinese Academy of Engineering. Li made the remarks on Monday at the China Science and Technology City Innovative Development Forum held after the opening ceremony of the th China Science and Technology City International HighTech Expo in Mianyang, Sichuan province. As a member of the highlevel expert group of the National Health Commission, Li was one of the first medical experts to rush to Wuhan to fight the COVID outbreak. Artificial intelligence and big data have also played a pivotal role in the fight against COVID, the academician added. On Jan , we proposed those who had contacts with the seafood market in Wuhan might be the source of infection, and they had to be tested and quarantined. Thanks to big data technology, it was soon found the source of infection could be controlled, she said. At the early stages of the fight against COVID, advanced medical techniques were taken to Wuhan. The microecological technology of artificial liver stem cells blocked the COVID cytokine storm through the artificial liver blood purification system, pulling many patients back from the brink of death. A head nurse who had dilated pupils and was in a coma for  days was rescued, Li said. Due to COVID, the fiveday expo that started on Monday has included cloud exhibition pavilions for the first time. New technologies such as G, cloud computing, artificial intelligence and big data are being used to show the exhibits online. The expo has four pavilions,  exhibition areas and  participating enterprises and institutions with more than , exhibits, the expos organizing committee said. Sponsored by the Ministry of Science and Technology and the Sichuan provincial government, the expo was first held in . Mianyang, Sichuans secondlargest city, was Chinas only science and technology city approved by the central government in . It has many key research institutes and enterprises with national defense contracts, such as the China Academy of Engineering Physics, which developed Chinas first nuclear bomb. During his visit to Mianyang on Saturday, VicePremier Liu He said the Communist Party of China Central Committee and the State Council have put a lot of emphasis on the construction of the technology city, and the city should strive to form an innovative base in the ChengduChongqing economic circle on the basis of serving national defense and focusing on military and civilian integration. Liu Ying contributed to this story.