A viral sensation
2021-02-19 08:11
The covers of two nonfiction books by US author Richard Preston, Crisis in the Red Zone left and The Hot Zone.?Photo provided to China Daily    American author Richard Prestons latest bestseller is a riveting truelife tale of human courage in the face of the Ebola crises in  and , Wang Ru reports. Doctor JeanFran?ois Ruppol, the then head of the Belgian governments medical aid mission to Zaire now the Democratic Republic of Congo in , wrote these chilling words in his journalI have just condemned myself to death.The sentence was written after he helped deliver a baby in Yambuku village, Bumba town of the countrys Equateur province. Weeks before the surgery, Ruppol had learned that a horrible transmissible virus, which spread through contact with body liquid, like sweat, saliva and blood, was spreading in Bumba town and had killed many people. So, when he first saw the dying pregnant woman, whose symptoms resembled those of the virus, he was fearful. But he still decided to perform the surgery and deliver the baby. When the doctor found the infant wasnt breathing, he subconsciously carried out mouthtomouth resuscitation, just as he had done many times in the past, but the moment he realized what he was doing, he was shocked and overwhelmed with fear. The baby let out a cry, but the doctor was frozen in horror. We now know the horrible virus as Ebola, with an average fatality rate of around  percent, according to the World Health Organization, which also mentions there is no proven treatment for Ebola but simple interventions early on can significantly improve chances of survival. Ruppol was very lucky, since it was found later that the pregnant woman didnt have Ebola, but had malaria, which is not as easily transmissible. Nevertheless, he did bear witness to the early Ebola outbreak in Congo. The story is told in American writer Richard Prestons latest nonfiction book Crisis in the Red Zone, elaborating on Ebolas  and  outbreaks. It follows his former bestselling book The Hot Zone, a nonfiction tome about Ebola published in , which has been translated into more than  languages and earned Preston the Centers for Disease Control and Preventions Champion of Prevention Award as a nonphysician.