A story of two pandemics  smoking and COVID
2020-06-01 11:58
Young people participate in a rally to mark World No Tobacco Day on a street in Kathmandu, Nepal, May , . Xinhua    As researchers study the cause and effect of the novel coronavirus pandemic, medical experts warn that tobacco users stand a higher risk of contracting the virus, as compared to nonsmokers. Recent studies by the World Health Organization WHO show increased vulnerability of smokers to infection by COVID. According to a review of tobacco use convened by the global health body on April  this year, smokers are more likely to develop severe disease with COVID in comparison to nonsmokers. The study warns that smokers are likely to be more vulnerable to COVID through contact of fingers and lips with contaminated cigarettes. Further, communal smoking involving sharing of cigarettes and mouth pieces can facilitate the transmission of the virus. Also, just like big tobacco seeks to manipulate young minds into adopting smoking through misinformation, the WHO has warned against amplifying unproven claims that tobacco or nicotine could reduce the risk of COVID. In a statement released on May , the WHO laments that the tobacco and nicotine industry has continued to promote products that limit peoples ability to fight the new coronavirus, and recover from the disease. This is one of the areas in focus as May  marks the  World No Tobacco Day, of which the theme is Protecting youth from industry manipulation and preventing them from tobacco and nicotine use. The theme raises the red flag against the recruitment of a new generation of tobacco and nicotine users, through what the WHO terms as deliberately employed strategic, aggressive and wellresourced tactics...aimed at replacing the millions of people who die each year from tobaccoattributable diseases with new consumers  youth. Nine in  smokers of the worlds  billion smokers pick up the habit before they are  years old, hooked by an annual billionU.S.dollar global marketing campaign by big tobacco. Currently, there are over  million smokers aged between  and  years. And, in a growing global trend,  million smokers are now women, enticed by targeted marketing strategies. More than  million people die from smoking every year, including over  million deaths from nonsmokers exposed to secondhand smoke. These deaths occur mainly from smokingrelated cancers, cardiac diseases, and, pulmonary and respiratory diseases. Moreover, a third of youth who are addicted to smoking will die prematurely from its adverse effects. Smoking has always raised a lot of concern to health authorities worldwide. Indeed, the WHO Framework Convention on Tobacco Control FCTC was the first treaty the UN body negotiated under its leadership. The FCTC seeks to curb the globalization of the tobacco epidemic by addressing demand and supply factors that promote smoking. The social and economic impact of smoking cannot be overemphasized. Smoking causes more than  billion U.S. dollars in economic damages every year, most of which emanates from the cost of healthcare expenses for treating tobacco related ailments, and the subsequent weakening of human productivity. Both smoking and COVID will have a great impact on the future of the youth. As the world coopts young people in curbing further spread of the smoking epidemic, the same sensitization should place them in combating COVID. Sensitization must keep pace with the results of ongoing research on the link between tobacco use and COVID, both in the short and long terms. One of the tobacco industrys major lines of defense is the argument that smoking is not the only cause of lifestyle diseases. They cite the case of serious illnesses like diabetes, high blood pressure and certain cancers that are caused by excessive sugar and fat intake. They say they are unfairly targeted, saying governments should also rein in consumer products which have been fingered as culprits that cause, for instance, obesity. Ultimately, the point is that smoking kills. It is an addictive habit that needs equally aggressive and deliberate strategies to fight off. Maybe in the near future, we will have data that shows the percentage of deaths from COVID that could have been exacerbated by tobacco use, compared to nonsmokers. In order to reduce, and ultimately eradicate the prevalence of smoking, health authorities should target the youth at the most appropriate channels. This includes reaching the youth by promoting alternative, egoboosting healthy lifestyles, and giving them constant and sufficient information on the dangers of smoking through social media. Antismoking lobbyists say authorities should work toward gradually criminalizing tobacco use. They also ask governments to enact and enforce legal measures toward a total cessation of advertising of cigarette and tobacco products in all media, including instituting punitive measures to those who sell cigarettes to minors.