A Letter to Foreign Nationals in Xiamen
2021-01-22 09:49
As the Spring Festival approaches, the holiday travel rush and gatherings will pose a challenge to COVID prevention and control. To ensure effective epidemic response and safeguard peoples health and safety, the Foreign Affairs Office of Xiamen Municipal Peoples Government hereby makes the following recommendations. Please take strict personal protective measures, including wearing masks when going out, maintaining social distancing of at least one meter, washing hands frequently, covering your mouth when coughing or sneezing, and avoiding gatherings. Keep close monitoring of your personal health. Should you experience fever or cough, wear a mask and seek medical care at the nearest fever clinic of a designated hospital as soon as possible.. Please wear your mask when using public transportation. This applies to planes, trains, metro, buses, BRT, ferries, taxis including ridehailing cars and elevators.. Please limit the number of attendees at activities such as meetings and parties. Meetings should be held online when possible. Family or other private gatherings should not exceed  people, all of whom should take protective measures. Those who suffer from flulike symptoms should not attend any gatherings.. You are encouraged to stay in Xiamen for the Spring Festival. To minimize the flow of people, we recommend that you do not leave Xiamen or China unless for essential travel. Employers are encouraged to offer flexible vacation policies, staggered resumption schedule, as well as support and subsidies to employees who stay in Xiamen for the holiday period.. Please adhere to local epidemic prevention and control measures, including information registration, temperature checks, quarantine and medical observation, and entry and exit control in residential areas.Starting Jan , those who come from or transit in cities with medium and highrisk areas including those subsequently being lowered to lowrisk areas are required to report to the communities they reside in immediately upon arrival. Those who arrived in Xiamen before Jan  are required to report to their local communities within  hours.Inbound travelers who arrive in Xiamen after entering China from other ports of entry are required to report to their local communities upon arrival and undergo health monitoring procedures in accordance with related rules.The Foreign Affairs Office of Xiamen Municipal Peoples Government will continue to provide COVID hotline services for foreign nationals in Xiamen. If you need assistance, please call us at .