confirmed in Bejings first clusterinfected coronavirus cases
2020-02-03 21:10
Citizens buy vegetables in a supermarket in Beijing on Feb , . Vegetables are in stable supply amid the epidemic. Photo by Zou Hongchinadaily.com.cn    Beijing reported the first hospital clusterinfected novel coronavirus cases on Monday, with nine cases confirmed, with all sent to designated hospitals for further treatment, according to local authorities. The nine patients include five medical care personnel, and four with mild symptoms. The clustered situation occurred in the intensive care unit of the cardiology department at Beijing Fuxing Hospital, a top hospital in the capital, said Miao Jianhong, deputy director of the capitals Xicheng district, in a press conference held in Beijing on Monday. Through preliminary research, the incident of the hospital cluster infection case is closely related to some individual medical staff infections. Specific reasons are under epidemiological investigation in multiple checks and relevant people who were in close contact with the patients are being put under concentrated medical observation, Miao said. Fuxing Hospital also strengthened prevention and control measures to combat the spread of the novel coronavirus, he added. On Monday, Beijing announced  new novel coronavirus cases between Sunday noon and midnight, bringing the total confirmed to . Among the new confirmed cases,  had close contact with previously confirmed cases and four had denied that they had any previous connection with Central Chinas Hubei province. Beijing has discovered  clusterinfected coronavirus cases involving more than  people, accounting for more than half of the capitals confirmed cases, said He Xiong, deputy director of the Beijing Center for Diseases Prevention and Control at a press conference on Monday. He specified that the clustered infection case means two or more confirmed cases have been found in a relatively small area, such as a family, school class or construction site. Personal communication among infected cases may trigger the possibility of new infection due to the exposure. Once an epidemic situation happens, surrounding people will be threatened and communitylevel prevention and control measures also face new challenges, He said. The capital also urged local authorities to strengthen daily supplies to ensure citizens have items for routine living, and clarified the quarantine measure towards residents who had traveled to Hubei province or had close contact with those who went to these areas, in that they be put under medical observation indoors for  days, according to a document released by the municipal government on Monday. Beijing also speeded up the approval process for prevention and control assets production projects to curb the spread of the novel coronavirus, according to the document. Subsidies? were allocated to related medical care personnel at hospitals as giving those who have direct contact with patients  yuan . per day, and other pandemic control and prevention staff  yuan per day.