Untapped potential of a stronger TurkishChinese partnership
2020-10-29 09:52
A Turkish employee works on a subway car at Chinese rail transit equipment maker CRRCs subsidiary in Ankara, Turkey. PhotoXinhua    On October , , the Turkish people celebrated the th anniversary of the declaration of the Republic of Turkey. This was the day when the new Turkish state took its rightful place among the international community of equal and sovereign nations. Since its foundation, Turkey has remained an inspiration and island of stability in the wider region. The republics role as a responsible and active member of the UN and other international organizations significantly contributes to the regional and international peace and security. Under the leadership of President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, Turkey has witnessed remarkable achievements in domestic growth and investments in the past two decades. Consequently, Turkey, a G member, is the th largest economy in the world and the fifth largest European economy in terms of PPP and recorded more than  trillion cumulative FDI inflows since . With the launch of new infrastructure megaprojects, the government is committed to transform Turkey into a  trillion economy by the centennial anniversary of the republic in . On the th National Day, let me briefly share my views with the readers the untapped potential offered by a stronger TurkishChinese partnership. Although many aspects of our bilateral cooperation have unfortunately stalled due to the global COVID crisis, Turkey and China have once again displayed their true friendship at a time of great distress by sending muchneeded medical supplies to each other. Turkey was among the first countries to send medical aid to Wuhan at the onset of the outbreak. When the disease began to spread in Turkey, China, too, provided valuable access to important products in accordance with our needs. This cooperation had solid background. While our historical relations go back to few millenia, the year  will mark the th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between our two countries. We are willing to use this important milestone to further improve our bonds. As our countries effectively implement epidemic control and prevention measures, we are determined to move forward on all fronts of our cooperation agenda. The highlevel consensus between President Erdogan and President Xi to strengthen ties has significant repercussions in various fields. First, we are working hard with our Chinese partners to achieve a more balanced, winwin economic relationship that will lead to a lower trade deficit for Turkey visavis China and encourage more Chinese investment in Turkey. Moreover, our countries share similiar views on the need of maintaining a rulesbased global trade system that will ensure fairer terms for developing economies. Second, we are deepening our cultural and tourism cooperation, as demonstrated by the final preparations for the opening of the Yunus Emre Turkish Cultural Center in Beijing and the increasing number of Chinese tourists visiting Turkey. With the resumption of more direct flights and new destinations, our midterm target is to host  million Chinese tourists. It is also worth mentioning that, despite the pandemic, Turkey is doing its utmost to revive international travel by implementing safe travel practices. Moreover, Istanbul Airport, one of the worlds biggest, has recently received the Chinese Friendly Airport certificate, a first worldwide, to accommodate the needs of our Chinese guests. Third, we are aiming to reap the benefits of the natural harmony between Turkeys Middle Corridor and Chinaproposed Belt and Road Initiative. As the Western and Eastern gateways of the ancient Silk Road, Turkey and China share the aspiration to reunite the Eurasian landmass with ambitious connectivity projects. We will keep contributing to international stability and prosperity through this important aspect of our multilateral cooperation. Last, Turkey is well aware of the rapid global transformation marked by the rise of the Asian continent. That is one of the reasons why last year we launched the multidimensional Asia Anew initiative, recognizing the opportunities offered by this phenomenon. We therefore consider China a close, reliable friend and a vital partner in furthering economic integration across Asia. Throughout its year journey, the Republic of Turkey has pursued amicable relations with the wider world based on our founding leader Mustafa Kemal Ataturks dictum Peace at Home, Peace in the World. This principle continues to guide our humanitarian, enterprising foreign policy, which is strengthened by our growing means and capabilities. It also forms the basis of our commitment to working closely with China in order to provide valuable contributions on the most pressing issues of our world. We look forward to the semicentennial anniversary of our diplomatic ties in  with the aim of widening and deepening our strategic cooperation in every respect. The author is ambassador of the Republic of Turkey to the Peoples Republic of China. The opinions expressed here are those of the writer and do not necessarily represent the views of China Daily and China Daily website. If you have a specific expertise and would like to contribute to China Daily, please contact us at opinionchinadaily.com.cn , and commentchinadaily.com.cn