should still be countrys GDP growth target
2020-03-27 10:09
A ChinaEurope cargo train departs from Yiwu, East Chinas Zhejiang province, to Madrid on Saturday. PhotoXinhua    Though the strong containment measures taken by China to combat the novel coronavirus outbreak have achieved tangible results, fresh cases outside the country have been escalating and there is still very little information about the disease development. It has also been hard to quantify the overall impact of the epidemic due to the uncertainty of its severity and duration. Even more harder to predict is the overall impact on the economy. No wonder that the full year economic growth forecasts of various institutions are all pointing south, with China figuring prominently in their assumptions. Over the last few years, China has been the main growth engine of the world economy, and any substantial slowdown in the country would send a chill globally. One example is the overly pessimistic response to Chinas  GDP growth rate of . percent. Although it was the lowest reading since , to remain above  percent while in the process of the economic restructuring is definitely a significant achievement for the worlds secondlargest economy. Given the triple whammy effect of the economic restructuring, the SinoUS trade tension and the public health emergency, the projection for Chinas  GDP growth is deeply immersed in pessimism. Many believe it is realistic to set the bar to below  percent for this year, or even halve it to around  percent for it to be acceptable. Such a belief has been further reinforced by the disappointing economic data for the first two months of this year. Retail sales of consumer goods fell by . percent on a yearly basis, while the industrial valueadded declined by . percent. However, there is still enough rationale to attest to the assumption that  percent should be the targeted GDP growth rate. From a global perspective, China accounted for roughly  percent of the incremental global GDP from  to , or the biggest proportion, according to the International Monetary Fund. Even in , with its . percent growth rate, China accounted for over  percent of the global economic growth. Hence, maintaining a sound growth speed in China would help stabilize the global economy that is currently mired in the deflation and the pandemic. Further coupling of Chinas supply chains with the global system will enable Chinas deeper involvement and participation and thus can better mitigate recession risks. Chinamade products and Chinabuilt infrastructure with cheaper costs and higher efficiencies will steadily fill the gap between potential growth and the realized one, and reinvigorate consumption rapidly after the epidemic shocks. From a domestic perspective, transforming Chinas economy from an exportoriented and investmentled model to a technologyandinnovationdriven one needs certain level of growth to prop up the giant sailing boat. The wellestablished manufacturing sector acts like a cash cow to keep the underlying economy going, and the upgrading of the economic model cant be fulfilled under the condition of a dramatic loss of speed. The growth momentum should be maintained to maintain the state of normalcy. In fact, the influence of an epidemic or even a pandemic on GDP growth is at least mixed if the  SARS outbreak can be of any reference. The  GDP figures turned out to be  percent in spite of the SARS damage, which was higher than the . percent in  and was about the same as the . percent in . The real driver for growth would be the demand derived from exports, investment and consumption, and the strong consumption rebound after the epidemic. A Vshaped recovery in the present case may sound a tad overoptimistic, but given the size of the economy, even a moderate bounceback would still bring China close to its goal of  percent growth. Moreover, the target of  percent has much more to do with the stabilized expectations, and it is the expectation that works as an indispensable element of the modern economy. In practice, the stable expectation of the economy has tremendous correlation with employment, capital expenditure investment, consumption and social wellness, in particular after an epidemic outbreak. Without the trust derived from a stable expectation of the economy, how would the general public willingly spend on the future earning capability with confidence? The supplyside structural measures are directly linked to demand, and demand is hugely influenced by expectations. Hence, the firm commitment to the  percent growth rate can surely reinforce expectations, which is extremely needed at this critical juncture. This is not psychology, but behavioral economics. Fortunately, China has abundant policy measures in its toolkit to pursue the GDP growth target. Fiscal measures include tax reductions, special bond issuances and designated expenditure on the novel coronavirus treatment and postepidemic recovery. It would also include monetary measures like reducing commercial banks reserve ratio and special central bank lending and interest rate cuts. Since market economy has been the norm in China, the government as one of the market participants should not be hesitant to stimulate the economy as and when required. A market economy cannot function without a government and there would be no exceptions to the rule during the ongoing epidemicprevention period. Liu Jun is a member of the China Finance  Forum. The opinions expressed in this article are entirely the authors own.