, medical workers infected with novel coronavirus Researchers
2020-02-17 21:53
Medical workers in Zhongnan Hospital of Wuhan University in Wuhan, Central Chinas Hubei province, Jan , . PhotoXinhua    At least , medical workers across the Chinese mainland have been infected with the novel coronavirus during the nationwide pneumonia outbreak, according to the Chinese Center for Disease Control and Prevention. Epidemic researchers at the Beijingbased center said that by the end of Feb , a total of , medical personnel from  hospitals receiving infected patients on the mainland had contracted the highly contagious virus.? The number includes , confirmed cases people who tested positive in nucleic acid tests and displayed clinical symptoms, as well as clinically diagnosed cases not been confirmed in the laboratory but present clinical symptoms looking like they had been infected and asymptomatic infections people who test positive in nucleic acid tests but do not show clinical symptoms.? There is a possibility that not all were infected in a professional environment, the center said. Among the infected medical workers, five had died by Feb , the researchers said. The number was smaller than that revealed by the National Health Commission, which said on Friday that six medical workers had died by Feb .? These findings were included in a report on epidemiological characteristics of the novel coronavirus pneumonia that was published on Monday in the latest issue of the Chinese Journal of Epidemiology. The report also said that, based on an analysis of , confirmed cases of medical workers with severe symptoms, nearly twothirds of the affected medical workers were in Wuhan, capital of Central Chinas Hubei province and epicenter of the outbreak.? It also noted that the outbreaks climax among medical workers was highly likely to occur on Jan .? The report analyzed , infection cases, including , confirmed cases, on the mainland by Feb . A total of , people had died of the contagion by that time. The overall mortality rate of confirmed cases was . percent. Researchers said the new coronavirus has turned out to be much more infectious that SARSCoV and MERSCoV, which caused massive outbreaks. However, most people who contract the new virus develop mild symptoms and the mortality rate is comparatively low, according to reseachers.