nd COVID wave hits Canada, infections grow drastically
2020-09-24 14:44
FILE PHOTO A woman wearing a protective face mask passes the closed and boarded up HM clothing store at Eaton Centre shopping mall during the global outbreak of the coronavirus disease COVID in Toronto, Ontario, Canada April , .?PhotoAgencies    OTTAWA  Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau said Wednesday evening that the second wave of COVID epidemic has already begun in the country amid concerns over a possible national lockdown. In our four biggest provinces British Columbia, Alberta, Ontario and Quebec, the second wave isnt just starting, its already underway. Were on the brink of a fall that could be much worse than the spring, said Trudeau in his evening address to the nation. COVID cases have jumped nationally in Canada, from about  cases per day in midAugust to , on Tuesday, prompting the Trudeau government to implore Canadians and public health policymakers to redouble infection prevention efforts now or face a very sharp and intense peak in new COVID cases that would likely lead to a return of national lockdowns. I know this isnt the news that any of us wanted to hear. And we cant change todays numbers or even tomorrows  those were already decided by what we did or didnt do, two weeks ago. But what we can change is where we are in October, and into the winter, Trudeau said. Its all too likely we wont be gathering for Thanksgiving, but we still have a shot at Christmas, he said. Trudeau said that while the outlook is grim, Canada has the tools it needs to blunt the impact of a pandemic that has already infected over , people and claimed the lives of about , in this country. We have the power to get this second wave under control. I know we can do it because weve already done it once before. In the spring, we all did our part by staying home. And this fall, we have even more tools in the toolbox, he said. Trudeau urged Canadians once again to wear masks in public, get the flu shot this fall, and download the governments COVID Alert app that notifies users when they have come into contact with someone who has tested positive for the virus. This is the time for all of us as Canadians, to do our part for our country, as the government does its part for you, he said. Trudeau also said his government has signed billions of dollars worth of agreements to buy vaccines, therapeutics, and personal protective equipment. Canada faced critical shortages of gloves, masks and gowns in the early days of the pandemic. Trudeaus national remarks came just several hours after Canadian Governor General Julie Payette delivered the governments speech in the Senate in which the ruling Liberal Party promised to keep financially supporting Canadians through whats shaping up to be a fall resurgence of the virus. In the speech, the government pledged to create  million new jobs, extend the wage subsidy program until next summer, launch the largest jobs training program in the countrys history and begin to build a national childcare program to support working women. The economic impact of COVID on Canadians has already been worse than the  financial crisis. These consequences will not be shortlived. This is not the time for austerity. Canada entered this crisis in the best fiscal position of its peers and the government is using that fiscal firepower, Payette said.