National Games flag passed to Bay Area leaders
2021-09-28 06:56
Hong Kong Chief Executive Carrie Lam Cheng Yuetngor center, accompanied by Macao Chief Executive Ho Iatseng left and Ma Xingrui, governor of Guangdong province, waves the flag for the th National Games at the closing ceremony of the th National Games in Xian, Shaanxi province, on Monday. The th National Games, to be held in , will be cohosted by the Hong Kong and Macao special administrative regions and Guangdong. WU GANGXINHUA    The flag for the th National Games in  was handed to the joint hosts, Guangdong province, Hong Kong and Macao, on Monday. The handover to the leaders of the three regions was done at the closing ceremony of the th Games in Xian, Shaanxi province. The  Games will be the first National Games to be cohosted by the two special administrative regions and the first to be held under one country, two systems since the Games started in . During the closing ceremony in Xian, Guangdongs Governor Ma Xingrui, Hong Kong Chief Executive Carrie Lam Cheng Yuetngor and Macaos Chief Executive Ho Iatseng waved the flag after receiving it from Gou Zhongwen, director of the General Administration of Sport. At a meeting with Lam and Ho on Sunday, Gou expressed hope that the  Games will be an opportunity to promote sports development in the three regions and enhance bonding among compatriots. The mainland sports community will give full support to Guangdong, Hong Kong and Macao to successfully host the th National Games in accordance with one country, two systems and the Basic Laws of the two SARs, Gou said. Lam said Hong Kong will be fully prepared to participate in the hosting of the National Games. She invited the General Administration of Sport to provide guidance. She also welcomed Shaanxi Governor Zhao Yide sharing the provinces experience of hosting the event during a separate meeting on Sunday. Andrew Leung Kwanyuen, president of Hong Kongs Legislative Council, said the  Games are a precious opportunity offered by the central authorities to enhance sports development and strengthen social cohesion in Hong Kong. The Games will also foster GuangdongHong KongMacao cooperation on all fronts and have farreaching significance, he added. Details such as the opening and closing dates and venues have yet to be finalized. The Kai Tak Sports Park in Hong Kong, which includes a ,seat stadium and is due to be completed in , is expected to host major events during the Games. Guangdong hosted the National Games in  and . The State Councils General Office, which approved in August joint hosting of the  Games, instructed that the event must be simple, safe and fine, and allout prevention measures must be in place to control the COVID epidemic.