
2021-02-01 11:23
?  COVID vaccine  Beijings  health centers have since Friday vaccinated , people, with no major side effects detected, said Gao Xiaojun, a spokesman for the Beijing Health Commission, at a news conference on Sunday. conditional marketing authorization for Chinas first selfdeveloped COVID vaccine The inactivated vaccine, which got the approval from the National Medical Products Administration NMPA, is developed by the Beijing Biological Products Institute Co., Ltd. under the China National Biotec Group CNBG, which is affiliated with Sinopharm.  inactivated vaccinesrecombinant protein vaccinesadenovirus vector vaccinesvaccines using attenuated influenza virus as vectorsnucleic acid vaccines The interim results of its phase clinical trials show . percent efficacy against COVID, meeting the standards of the World Health Organization and the NMPA, according to a press conference by the State Council joint prevention and control mechanism against COVID.This vaccine will be provided free of charge to all Chinese people..  Currently, health centers dont accept individual vaccination reservations. Individuals going abroad for personal reasons can apply for the shot at their residential community service centers.  Groups that are not suitable to receive the vaccines include pregnant women, lactating women and patients with some diseases. These patients are those in the acute stage of fever and infection, suffering from immune deficiency or immune disorder, having severe liver or kidney diseases, having uncontrolled hypertension, diabetic complications or malignant tumors. Currently, people in the age group from  to  are arranged to receive the vaccination, and people not in the age group should wait for further data of clinical trials to know whether they could be vaccinated. ?  space launch tasks  China plans to launch the core module of its manned space station in the first half of . Subsequent space missions include the launches of the Tianzhou cargo craft and the Shenzhou manned craft.  threestep manned space program manned spaceship extravehicular activityrendezvous and dockingspace lab operate a permanent manned space station cargo spacecraft Tianzhouspace laboratory stage of China manned space engineering fully operational ?  Chinas Mars probe Tianwen is designed to complete orbiting, landing and roving this year. The spacecraft, launched on July , , is expected to enter the Mars orbit around February. Afterward, it will spend two to three months surveying potential landing sites to prepare for its landing in May. China will continue to research manned lunar exploration, and will foster the application of the BeiDou Navigation Satellite System BDS and other major projects in civil aviation and other fields. ?  cold wave  The first cold wave in  features a dramatic temperature drop, significant windchill effect and prolonged period of low temperature, said Lei Lei, chief forecaster of the Beijing meteorological station.  cold snapcold wavecold frontcold spellstrong cold air cold air masscold frontlow pressure area ..a record low in  years  cold Its chilly today. Its freaking cold today! The wind really chills me to the bone.The wind is bonechilling. I got frozen stiff waiting at the bus stop. From Thursday to Friday, some areas in the provinces of Shanxi, Shandong, Jiangsu, Jiangxi, Zhejiang, Fujian, as well as Shanghai, will experience temperature drops of up to  degrees Celsius, said the National Meteorological Center NMC. The cold wave will bring strong gales to areas along the Yangtze River and north of the river, according to the NMC.  Beaufort Scale CalmkmhLight airkmhLight breezekmhGentle breezekmhModerate breezekmhFresh breezekmhStrong breezekmhNear galekmhGalekmhStrong galekmhStormkmhViolent stormkmhHurricanekmh windchill effect the human body temperature is normally higher than the ambient temperatureair is a poor conductor of heat the protective air barrier around the body is constantly replaced by new cold air the relationship between wind speed and the feeling of temperature bare skin ?  Electoral College votes The US Congress certified Democrat Joe Bidens presidential election victory with  Electoral College votes early Thursday morning, after supporters of President Donald Trump stormed the Capitol, halting the certification process for several hours.       ?  Electoral Collegepresidential candidate winnertakeall basisa state has all of its electors pledged to the presidential candidate who wins the most votes in that state congressional district methodelectorcongressional districtstatewide popular vote  Even though I totally disagree with the outcome of the election, and the facts bear me out, nevertheless there will be an orderly transition on January th.  bear outbear someone outbear out claimsRecent studies have borne out claims that perfumes can cause psychological changes.  Also on Wednesday, Democrat Jon Ossoff defeated Republican incumbent David Perdue in the Georgia runoff, giving Democrats control of the US Senate. Ossoffs victory came after the win on Tuesday by Raphael Warnock over incumbent Senator Kelly Loeffler to become Georgias first black senator. ?  nucleic acid testing  People have been urged to stay in the cities where they work for the Spring Festival holiday and abide by the regulations of epidemic prevention and control in scenic spots when traveling, according to Zeng Yixin, deputy head of the National Health Commission. Zeng said the epidemic situation during the winter and spring was likely to remain grim and complex, especially in the upcoming Spring Festival, so its necessary to limit gatherings and the flow of people. He advised people to choose offpeak travel and online shopping.  offpeakpeaknot at the most popular and expensive time, when many people are doing or using a particular thingoffpeak faresoffpeak seasonoff seasonpeak season ?  To curb the epidemic in this winterspring period, China will expand nucleic acid testing to a larger scale and increase regular testing frequency. Meanwhile, several provinces have made it clear that those returning from lowrisk areas during the Spring Festival holidays also need to have negative result of nucleic acid testing. An urgent notice was also issued in many regions that gatherings, parties, banquets, reunions and other activities should be canceled.  Zhang Boli, a member of the Chinese Academy of Engineering, said earlier that scattered COVID outbreaks are almost unavoidable with the falling temperatures in winter, which make it easier for the novel coronavirus to survive. He called for the public to reduce gatherings and travel during and around Spring Festival.  sporadic outbreakscattered outbreakSporadicoccasionalShe makes sporadic trips to EuropescatteredThe forecast is for scattered showers tomorrow Epidemic control and prevention in China is expected to improve significantly in spring following mass COVID vaccination, he said. ?  undergraduate theses Starting this year, Chinese education authorities will institute random checks on undergraduate theses to crack down on plagiarism, ghostwriting, and other forms of academic misconduct.  academic misconduct  plagiarismfabrication or alteration of research resultsdata falsificationinappropriate authorshipproviding false or misleading informationacademic paper selling or ghostwriting  According to the Ministry of Education, provincial education departments should doublecheck at least  of a universitys theses, and graduates with final essays containing irregularities can have their degrees revoked.  revokerevoke driving licenserevoke operating licenserevoke a rulingorder ? Each thesis will be reviewed by three experts, who will also check the essays for quality. If two reviewers say the paper is substandard, it will be identified as problematic. Such results will be made public, and universities with a high percentage of problematic theses will be held accountable, the ministry said. ?  forest chief scheme China has issued a guideline to implement a forest chief scheme nationwide amid the countrys continuous efforts to protect forests and grasslands. It was issued by the general offices of the Communist Party of China Central Committee and the State Council and urged that the forest chief scheme will be rolled out nationwide by June .