University canteens set up safety plans for new semester
2020-02-11 20:30
PhotoXinhua    Universities nationwide have rescheduled their new semester dates due to the novel coronavirus pneumonia outbreak to avoid the possible spread of the virus, as students return from their hometowns. Universities in Central Chinas Henan province have established a management plan for campus canteen safety and student dining in the coming new semester, the provincial Education Department said on Tuesday. According to Henan University, which is in Kaifeng,  staff members will be distributed to  canteens on campus. All workers have been verified with having no history of residence or travel in Hubei province or contact with residents in the province, which is center of the epidemic. All canteens will be open from  am to  pm, with a disinfection operation between  pm to  pm and a comprehensive disinfection of every corner after closing. Buffets will be cancelled and every student will be asked to sit separately in the same direction. Luoyang Normal University, located in Luoyang, proposed providing dining service at different times to avoid students gathering in one place at the same time. The university will encourage teachers and students to take food away, which may help prevent cross infections. Zhongyuan University of Technology in the capital city Zhengzhou will allow canteen staff members who come back from other cities to start to work after a day quarantine. They will give all staff members a training course of epidemic prevention and enforce strict monitoring three times a day. The canteen will stay open longer to courage teachers and students to have a meal in staggering hours. Zhengzhou Shengda University of Economic, Business and Management in Zhengzhou will suggest teachers and students bring their own dinnerware and take food away. If conditions permit, the university will assign specialized canteens to different academies. The Henan Technical Institute in Zhengzhou will adjust class times to avoid students gathering in the canteens at the same time. Workers will implement ultraviolet disinfection and liquid disinfection three times every day. The university also will strengthen staff management, including registering when they enter and leave, as well as monitoring body temperature every morning and evening.