
2020-07-31 09:22
?  The Law of the Peoples Republic of China on Safeguarding National Security in the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region HKSAR The Law of the Peoples Republic of China on Safeguarding National Security in the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region HKSAR was passed unanimously at the th session of the Standing Committee of the th National Peoples Congress NPC, Chinas top legislature. President Xi Jinping signed a presidential order to promulgate the law, which goes into effect on the date of promulgation. the duties and government bodies of the HKSAR for safeguarding national securitysecessionsubversionterrorist activitiescollusion with a foreign country or external elements to endanger national security According to the law, the central government will set up an office in the HKSAR for safeguarding national security. The HKSAR will establish a committee for safeguarding national security, which is under the supervision of and accountable to the central government. To be chaired by the HKSAR chief executive, the committee shall have a national security adviser designated by the central government. The Hong Kong police force will also set up a department for safeguarding national security, according to the law. According to the law, people convicted of the national security crimes could face up to life imprisonment. Convicted criminals will be disqualified from running for public office, and people in public office who are found guilty of the crimes will be removed from their posts. The law shall apply to acts committed after its entry into force for the purpose of conviction and imposition of punishment, according to its provision.  It is in line with national laws that maintain national interests and is compatible with Hong Kongs existing legal system. It also sticks to the principle that only a very few offenders will be targeted and the majority of Hong Kong people will be protected, Li said. ? It provides legal support to safeguard national security and Hong Kongs longterm stability and prosperity, protects foreign investors interests in Hong Kong as well as the rights and freedoms enjoyed by Hong Kong residents, and guarantees the smooth and steady progress of one country, two systems. ?  The Hong Kong and Macao Affairs Office of the State Council said in its statement that for a tiny number of people endangering national security, the law will be a sharp sword hanging over their heads.But for the vast majority of Hong Kong residents including foreigners in Hong Kong, the law will be a guardian that protects their rights, freedoms and peaceful life, said the office.It will enable Hong Kong to have a more complete legal system, a more stable social order, better rule of law and an improved business environment.   The office said in a statement that the NPC Standing Committee conducted the legislative work in a highly responsible, scientific and democratic manner by taking into account opinions from a wide range of Hong Kong society. ? The law effectively closes Hong Kongs legal gaps and demonstrates a high degree of unity between one country and two systems, central governance and local autonomy, as well as national interests and human rights. ? The office also pointed out that the central government has carefully evaluated any situation that might occur during the implementation of the national security law. No one should underestimate the central governments determination and ability to strictly enforce the law. ?  After the Law of the Peoples Republic of China on Safeguarding National Security in the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region HKSAR was adopted at the th session of the th NPC Standing Committee, the Hong Kong and Macao Affairs Office of the State Council and the Liaison Office of the Central Peoples Government in the HKSAR have both issued statements. ? The NPC Standing Committee formulated this law and listed it in Annex III to the HKSAR Basic Law to be gazetted and enacted in Hong Kong by the SAR government. This is a fundamental solution for Hong Kong to restore order, end chaos and resume stability. It is a landmark in the practice of one country, two systems and a strong institutional guarantee for upholding national sovereignty, security and development interests, safeguarding lasting security, prosperity and stability in Hong Kong, and ensuring the steady implementation of one country, two systems. It reflects the shared will of all Chinese people including Hong Kong compatriots. ? This legislation takes into full consideration the realistic needs of safeguarding national security and the specific conditions of the HKSAR and sets out systemic and comprehensive provisions regarding a legal system and enforcement mechanisms at both national and SAR levels. This upholds the constitutional order in the HKSAR established by the Constitution and the Basic Law and demonstrates the inherent requirements of one country, two systems. The law applies to four categories of criminal behaviors that gravely undermine national security. It will only target very few criminals but protect the vast majority of Hong Kong people. Its implementation will strengthen Hong Kongs legal framework, ensure social order, improve business environment, and benefit Hong Kong citizens and international investors. We have every confidence in the bright prospects of Hong Kong. ? Hong Kong is one of Chinas special administrative regions and its affairs are Chinas internal affairs. The Chinese government is firmly determined to implement one country, two systems and oppose foreign interference in Hong Kong affairs. Nobody and nothing could shake the Chinese government and peoples resolution and will to safeguard national sovereignty and security and uphold Hong Kongs prosperity and stability. Any attempt seeking to undermine Chinas sovereignty, security and development interests is doomed to fail. ?  I am confident that after implementation of the National Security Law, the social unrest which has troubled Hong Kong people for nearly a year will be eased and stability will be restored, thereby enabling Hong Kong to start anew, focus on economic development and improve peoples livelihoods, she said. ?  The  Chinese Super League CSL The  Chinese Super League CSL season was originally scheduled to begin on Feb  until the COVID pandemic forced its postponement. The Chinese Football Association CFA announced on Wednesday that the CSL will kick off on July .  leagueChinese Super LeaguePremier LeagueMajor League BaseballMLBtournamentleaguetournament tennischessgolf tournament  As the COVID epidemic is gradually under control across the nation, and to meet the expectation of people, the Chinese Football Association has decided to start the  Chinese Super League season on July  in Suzhou and Dalian. The CFA will try its best to make comprehensive preparations. And we will strictly follow the epidemic prevention regulations to ensure matches are well organized and well managed. We will guarantee the safety and quality of this CSL season. round robin format,depending on the epidemic situation ?  identity theft Any students who cheat or are involved in identity theft in the national college entrance exam, or gaokao, will be disqualified from enrolling in universities and colleges, the Ministry of Education said. Universities should conduct identity checks of high school graduates to find any students who have stolen others identities or gained extra gaokao points through illegal means, it said.  identity theftsteal ones identityimposterimposture He was accused of imposture. Cheatcheat on someoneshe cheated meshe fooled meshe cheated on mesomeone is a cheat ? The ministry said in a notice issued on Thursday that it will work with public security and disciplinary authorities to look into any fraud in the exam and hold those guilty of violations and any people who assist them accountable.  Candidates and the test site staff will have their body temperatures and health conditions monitored regularly starting from  days ahead of the exam, the ministry said in a statement. Examsitters will have their body temperatures measured and are allowed into test sites only when their body temperatures are below . degrees Celsius.. There will be at least three isolated test rooms at each test site, available for candidates who exhibit symptoms of fever and cough during the exam, according to the statement. ?  early warning messages for meteorological disasters In June, meteorological administrations issued over , early warning messages. The number of messages for rainstorms and thunder each increased by about  percent compared with the average of the total issued for the same month in the past three years, according to the China Meteorological Administration.. The Ministry of Emergency Management said that, as of Friday, over . million people in  provincial regions had suffered from floods. A total of  people were missing or dead and the direct economic losses from the flood disasters reached over . billion yuan.  precipitationrainstorm downpour torrential raindisastrous weatherfloodlandslidedebris flowLandslidedebris flow ? yellow alert for rainstorms From Monday to Tuesday morning, heavy rain and rainstorms are expected in parts of Shanghai, Jiangsu, Zhejiang, Anhui, Jiangxi, Hubei, Hunan,Chongqing, Guizhou, Yunnan and Heilongjiang, the National Meteorological Center said. Some of these regions will see up to  mm of hourly precipitation, accompanied by thunderstorms and strong winds, the center said. ?  It said coordinated operation of reservoirs in the upper reaches of the Yangtze will be carried out to reduce the amount of water flowing into the Three Gorges Dam, which saw the arrival on Thursday of the first flood in the countrys longest watercourse this year, and relieve flood control pressure in the middle and lower reaches of the river. Among areas to be covered by the rain band, some places in Shanxi, Henan, Shandong and Heilongjiang provinces and the Inner Mongolia and Xinjiang Uygur autonomous regions are forecast to see their precipitation increase by  to  percent compared with previous years. The coming rain may result in major regional floods in the middle reaches of the Yellow River, southern parts of the Haihe River, the Songhuajiang and Liaohe rivers. The rain, together with melted snow, may also cause flooding in some areas in Xinjiang, the ministry said.  new professions The new professions, mostly in the public health sector and emerging industries, include blockchain technicians, online marketers, information security testers, online learning consultants and community health assistants, among others, according to a statement jointly issued by the Ministry of Human Resources and Social Security and other departments.  Five new types of work, such as livestreaming salesperson, have also been released, while three types of work related to public health services have been upgraded into professions.  occupationprofessionoccupationprofessionprofessional professionoccupationtype of workpositionpost public health emergency responsepoverty reduction sectors where poor laborers and rural migrant workers are employed Occupational Classification System of the Peoples Republic of China ?  delayed gaokao The government of Shexian county in Anhui province said on Tuesday that the downpour, which began before dawn, was the heaviest in  years. The county was forced to delay the first days two examsfor Chinese language and mathematicsas most local students failed to reach the two examination sites on time because of flooding. ? The county has , students aiming to take this years gaokao, but only around  had arrived at the examination sites by  am, according to Wang Tianping, head of the countys education bureau. The two delayed exams are scheduled to take place on Thursday using alternate set of exam papers, exams on other subjects will be held as scheduled on Wednesday,the authorities said.  The National Meteorological Center on Tuesday issued an orange alert for rainstorms, as heavy downpours are forecast to hit vast stretches of the country.   blue alert  ? yellow alert  ? orange alert  ? red alert  From Tuesday night to Wednesday night, heavy rain and rainstorms are expected in Hubei, Anhui, Hunan, Jiangxi and Zhejiang, among other regions, the National Meteorological Center said, warning that some areas of Hubei, Jiangxi and Anhui will experience downpours with up to  mm of daily rainfall. The center advised local authorities to remain alert for possible flooding, landslides and mudslides, and recommended halting outdoor operations in hazardous areas.   The Ministry of Education decided to stop giving bonus points to students who have exceptional sports ability, who have won academic Olympiads or science and technology competitions, who are named provinciallevel excellent students or those who have performed righteous and courageous deeds in .   Eight provinciallevel regions joined in gaokao reform in . The change will cover students who entered high schools in fall  or later in Hebei, Liaoning, Jiangsu, Fujian, Hubei, Hunan, Guangdong and Chongqing. The reform allows the students to have more choices  up to  combinations of subjects instead of the current two choices between arts and science. Their performances during high school academic tests will also serve as measurable indicators.  Any students who cheat or are involved in identity theft in the national college entrance exam, or gaokao, will be disqualified from enrolling in universities and colleges, the Ministry of Education said.