
2020-05-22 13:59
The covid epidemic is the fastest spreading, most extensive, and most challenging public health emergency China has encountered since the founding of the Peoples Republic of China. Under the strong leadership of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China with Comrade Xi Jinping at its core, and through the hard work and sacrifice of our entire nation, we have made major strategic achievements in our response to covid. At present, the epidemic has not yet come to an end, while the tasks we face in promoting development are immense. We must redouble our efforts to minimize the losses resulting from the virus and fulfill the main targets and tasks for economic and social development this year.  ?  Main targets and tasks for  were accomplished, laying the crucial foundation needed to reach the goal of building a moderately prosperous society in all respects.  The economy remained stable overall.  GDP reached . trillion yuan, growing by .. .. . million new urban jobs were added, and the surveyed unemployment rate was below .. . Consumer prices rose by .. . A basic equilibrium was maintained in the balance of payments.  The economic structure continued to improve, and the development priorities of regions are better aligned.  New growth drivers became stronger.  Major headway was made in reform and openingup.  Pivotal progress was achieved in the three critical battles against poverty, pollution, and potential risk.  Living standards continued to improve.  In covid control, we stayed confident, came together in solidarity, adopted a sciencebased approach, and took targeted measures, carrying out all our work in a solid and meticulous manner. While continuing to advance epidemic control, we have also promoted economic and social development. With  policy measures in  categories, we have ensured stable supplies and prices and the resumption of work and production in a timely and effective manner.  ?  This year, we must give priority to stabilizing employment and ensuring living standards, win the battle against poverty, and achieve the goal of building a moderately prosperous society in all aspects.  Main targets  Over  million new urban jobs, a surveyed urban unemployment rate of around , and a registered urban unemployment rate of around . . CPI increase of around . . More stable and higherquality imports and exports, and a basic equilibrium in the balance of payments  Growth in personal income that is basically in step with economic growth  Elimination of poverty among all rural residents living below the current poverty line and in all poor counties  Effective prevention and control of major financial risks  A further drop in energy consumption per unit of GDP and the discharge of major pollutants  Accomplishment of the th FiveYear Plan  We have not set a specific target for economic growth this year. This is because our country will face some factors that are difficult to predict in its development, due to the great uncertainty regarding the covid pandemic and the world economic and trade environment. Not setting a specific target for economic growth will enable all of us to concentrate on ensuring stability on the six fronts and security in the six areas. Ensuring stable economic performance is of crucial significance. We need to pursue reform and opening up as a means to stabilize employment, ensure peoples wellbeing, stimulate consumption, energize the market, and achieve stable growth. We need to blaze a new path that enables us to respond effectively to shocks and sustain a positive growth cycle.  Pursue a more proactive and impactful fiscal policy  DeficittoGDP ratio this year is projected at more than ., with a deficit increase of  trillion yuan over last year. . Issue  trillion yuan of government bonds for covid control.  Pursue a prudent monetary policy in a more flexible and appropriate way  Use a variety of tools such as required reserve ratio reductions, interest rate cuts, and relending to enable M money supply and aggregate financing to grow at notably higher rates than last year.  Strengthen the employmentfirst policy with comprehensive measures  Strive to keep existing jobs secure, work actively to create new ones, and help unemployed people find work.  ?  Further cut taxes and fees  Aggressively implement current policies in conjunction with institutional arrangements.  Expect additional savings of more than . trillion yuan for enterprises throughout the year. . Reduce enterprises production and operating costs  Increase financial support to keep business operations stable  Ensure that micro, small, and medium businesses have significantly better access to loans and that overall financing costs drop markedly.  Make every effort to stabilize and expand employment  Increase employment support for key sectors and key groups.  Support flexible employment.  This year and next, provide more than  million vocational skills training opportunities, and grow enrollment in vocational colleges by  million.  ?  Press ahead with reforms to streamline administration and delegate power, improve regulation, and upgrade services  Boost the resumption of work, production, and business activities.  Make sustained efforts to create a marketoriented, lawbased, and internationalized business environment.  Advance reforms to promote marketbased allocation of production factors  Improve the performance of state capital and SOE reforms  Foster an enabling environment for the development of the private sector  Encourage the upgrading of manufacturing and the growth of emerging industries  Boost smart manufacturing.  Create new competitive strengths in the digital economy.  Boost our capacity to support technological innovation  Continue to encourage business startups and innovation nationwide  ?  We will deepen supplyside structural reform, focus our efforts on improving the peoples wellbeing, and boost consumption and expand investment in a mutually reinforcing way.  Promote the recovery of consumption  Support the recovery and development of consumer services.  Expand effective investment  Priority will be given to new infrastructure and new urbanization initiatives and major projects, which not only boost consumption and benefit the people, but also facilitate structural adjustments and enhance the sustainability of growth. Efforts will be made mainly in the following three areas  Step up the construction of new types of infrastructure, developing nextgeneration information networks.  Strengthen the development of a new type of urbanization, improving public facilities and services in county seats and beginning the renovation of , old urban residential communities. . Redouble efforts to develop major transportation and water conservancy projects.  Steadily advance new urbanization  Step up implementation of Chinas regional development strategies  Implement a package of policies to support Hubeis development.  Ensure more effective protection of ecosystems and the environment  Safeguard energy security  ?  Win the fight against poverty  Channel greater energy into eliminating poverty in all remaining poor counties and villages.  Continue to promote both poverty alleviation and rural revitalization.  Work to bolster agricultural production  Keep total crop acreage and grain output stable.  Penalize the acquisition of farmland for other purposes in violation of laws and regulations.  Increase the area of highstandard cropland by . million hectares.  Create more channels for rural residents to find employment and increase their incomes  Support modern agricultural facilities, safe drinking water projects, and the improvement of living environments.  ?  We will stay committed to opening our door wider to the world, keep our industrial and supply chains stable, and make opening up a catalyst for reform and development.  Stabilize the overall performance of foreign trade  Help businesses get more orders and keep their employees on.  Work actively to expand imports.  Foster a large globallyoriented market of higher standards.  Step up utilization of foreign capital  Significantly shorten the negative list for foreign investment.  Draw up a negative list for crossborder trade in services.  Foster an enabling market environment in which all companies, Chinese and foreign, are treated as equals and engaged in fair competition.  Focus on quality in the joint pursuit of the Belt and Road Initiative  Promote liberalization and facilitation of trade and investment  ?  Enhance the public health system  Improve mechanisms for direct reporting and early warning of infectious diseases.  Ensure prompt, open, and transparent release of epidemic information.  Increase inputs into the RD of vaccines, medicines, and rapid testing technologies.  Build more medical facilities for epidemic control and treatment.  Greatly enhance our prevention and control capability.  Resolutely prevent a resurgence of covid.  Improve basic medical services  Pilot interprovincial onthespot settlement of outpatient bills through basic medical insurance accounts.  Tighten up supervision over food and drugs.  Develop more equitable and higherquality education  See that teaching in primary and secondary schools and entrance examinations for senior high school and university are wellorganized.  Make greater effort to meet peoples basic living needs  Increase the basic pension for retirees and the minimum basic oldage pension for rural and nonworking urban residents.  Extend the coverage of unemployment insurance and subsistence allowances.  Ensure assistance is provided to anyone who runs into temporary difficulty because of disaster or illness.  Organize rich intellectual and cultural activities for our people  Create new and better ways to conduct social governance  Strengthen accountability for workplace safety