th FiveYear Plan highlights savings, growth
2020-11-09 09:12
CAI MENGCHINA DAILY    Chinas savings rate, although high, has been declining of late, after reaching a peak of . percent in . The national savings rate remained at . percent in , the latest year for which full data are available, more than double the world average of around  percent and higher than that in other highsaving East Asian peers. The decline appears to reflect that the economic structure is upgrading to a more balanced state, which indicates a positive. Falling government savings are the main factor behind the decline, but as private sector savings account for a larger proportion of national savings, any further declines in the national savings rate in the future will be mainly triggered by decreases in the private savings rate, especially in the household savings rate. Household savings accounted for . percent of national savings in , and the trend of household savings during the th FiveYear Plan period  will have a decisive impact on the overall changes in national savings. As wages have experienced rapid growth in China over the past decade and are growing faster than labor productivity, it is expected that the growth rate of household income will slow down during  and lead to a decline in the household savings rate. The uncertainty caused by the ongoing COVID pandemic will have a smoothing effect on consumption and reduce the savings rate during the early stage of the th FiveYear Plan period. The savings rate of enterprises is likely to see a small upward momentum during the period. As industry concentration increases, the savings behavior of large enterprises will bring up the overall level of savings. Such trend will continue during the  period. In addition, global uncertainties brought by woes like SinoUS trade frictions and the COVID pandemic will push firms to save more to mitigate possible operational risks. The public savings rate will continue to drop during the same period. To better cope with the aging population issues, the social security spending on oldage care, healthcare and related areas will continue to rise. Together with moves like tax cuts or expansionary fiscal policies, these will further drive down the public sector savings rate. In addition, the COVID impact on the economy has not been completely digested. How long this pandemic will last remains unknown. The postepidemic economic recovery, which is always accompanied by massive public spending, will also reduce public savings. But as the share of public savings in national savings falls, its marginal contribution to changes in national savings will become smaller and smaller. Apart from the factors discussed above, demographic changes may determine future declines in savings rates. Chinas private sector savings rate accounted for . percent of national savings in , with . percent of corporate savings and . percent of household savings. The increase of population dependency ratio and the change in structural factors are the main determinants of the change in residents savings. In , those aged  and over accounted for . percent of the total population in China, while those aged  and over accounted for . percent. Moreover, the aging population issue, in the future, will further boost the dependency ratio. Since , the workingage population aged  to  has begun to decline in China, down . million over a sixyear period . During , the number of the workingage group will further decrease by  to  million, much faster than the pace seen during the th FiveYear Plan period.