Xis visit inspires Chinese athletes
2021-01-22 07:27
Technicians in Beijing prepare the playing surface at the Wukesong Ice Sports Center, the ice hockey training venue for the  Winter Olympics, on Wednesday. WEI XIAOHAOCHINA DAILY    President shows ardent interest in training progress Inspired by President Xi Jinpings warm greetings and instructions, Chinese athletes, sports officials and event organizers have pledged to deliver their best performances on both the athletic and operational fronts at the  Winter Olympics. With about one year left before the  Winter Olympics open next February, Chinas winter sports teams have had their athletic preparation for the home showcase boosted by the presidents earnest expectation after Xi visited athletes, coaches and organizational staff at multiple venues in the Games three zonesdowntown Beijing, the citys suburban Yanqing district and cohost Zhangjiakou, Hebei provincethis week. At the refurbished Capital Gymnasium, Xis ardent interest in their training progress and everyday lives after watching their performances during a visit on Monday lifted the spirit of Chinas figure skating teamone of the countrys most decorated winter sports programs. Its really an honor and a great inspiration to perform under the presidents watch, pair skater Jin Yang said on Wednesday during a symposium organized by the National Winter Sports Administrative Center to study Xis guidance. His caring words reminding us to get enough rest after hard training and to be careful not to get injured were really touching, filling us with energy and confidence to keep pushing for better results. It was Jins second time skating with his partner Peng Cheng in front of Xi, who is also general secretary of the Communist Party of China Central Committee. The president had visited them in  at the same venue, which hosts the training base of the team. Xis twoday venue tour, which included visits to Yanqings Alpine Ski Center, the National Sliding Center and Zhangjiakous National Ski Jumping Center, was his fourth inspection trip to Beijing  facilities and training bases since the Chinese capital won in  the right to become the worlds first city to host both Olympics after having staged the  Summer Games. Expanding prowess At the sliding center, where a .kilometer track for bobsled, luge and skeleton winds down mountain ridges, Chinese racers preparing for the home Games said they were motivated to push for faster runs in  by Xis presence and encouragement during a training session. Although we started pretty late in this event, we have advantages such as a worldclass track at home and the central governments full support to help us catch up with the worlds best and dare to surpass them in , said Shao Yijun, captain of Chinas fourman bobsled team, which was formed in  with talent drafted from track and field. As a rookie in most snowbased events, Chinas winter sports governing body has set goals for the country to expand its prowess from skating to more snow disciplines, such as freestyle skiing, snowboarding, bobsled and skeleton. The country has hired a group of renowned foreign coaches, including Norways eighttime Olympic champion Ole Einar Bjorndalen in biathlon and South Koreaborn shorttrack speedskating legend Viktor Ahn, to qualify its athletes in all  Beijing  events in an attempt to eclipse the countrys best gold medal haul five in  at previous Winter Games. President Xis instruction serves as a strong morale booster. Yet we still need to stay humble, calm and dedicated on our mission and try to forge ahead, targeting the worlds best in each event, Ni Huizhong, director of the National Winter Sports Administrative Center, said during a symposium attended by  athletes and coaches on site. After his venue inspection, Xi also urged Beijing  organizers to conduct preparatory work with greater perfection and to readjust venue operational plans if necessary to adapt to COVID pandemic circumstances. Epidemic planning Liu Yumin, director of the planning, construction and sustainable development department of the Beijing  organizing committee, said the presidents detailed instructions had helped shed light on additional planning for epidemic countermeasures for the Games. We will focus on improving our venue operation plans and make necessary facility adjustments in accordance with the epidemic prevention protocols as our next step after having completed all  competition venues for the Games, Liu said on Wednesday. With all competition venues ready by the end of last year, the organizing committee is moving on to finalize and test Gamestime operational plans in areas such as athlete service, transportation, accommodation and epidemic control to host the Winter Olympics with a simplified, safe and excellent approach as the president instructed, Liu said.