emGaokaoem candidates learn lessons in testing times
2020-03-16 10:02
High school senior students study for the national college entrance exam at a makeshift hospital, a temporary infirmary designed to treat people infected with the novel coronavirus, in Wuhan, Hubei province, in February, . Photo provided to China Daily    As China battles the epidemic, students preparing to take this years national college entrance exam are finding new ways of studying, revising and expressing themselves. Zhao Yimeng reports from Beijing, with Liu Kun in Wuhan. A rap written by candidates for the gaokao, Chinas national college entrance exam, has gone viral on social media, garnering thousands of hits and comments on the platform, QQ Music. Empty City, which makes reference to the novel coronavirus epidemic, was created by a couple of grade three students from the High School Affiliated to Renmin University, also known as RDFZ, a prestigious establishment in Beijing. The students recorded the song during their preparations for the exam, which will be held in June. Liu Yixin and his classmate Li Yusheng, both , wrote the song to express their feelings about the outbreak and to support the families of people infected with the virus. On Jan , Yang Jun, the father of one of their classmates, was the first reported death from the virus in the capital. Liu and Li responded lyrically Lives claimed by the epidemic rest in peaceI cant imagine how tortured her family is. How many sins in history werent led by selfishness? Is it possible to preventa daughter facing the gaokao crying in front of her father? Many people who commented said they had played the song continuously, and they praised the sentiments voiced. The comments included, These children shouldered their responsibilities for the nation and they didnt disappoint our expectations, and Young people are the hope of the country. Liu wrote the music and sang the song. He has been playing guitar for two years and previously formed a band at the school, but it broke up because the students were so busy with their studies. I am addicted to hiphop music, rock n roll and electronica. My hobby is producing music on my computer after Ive done my schoolwork, he said in his introduction on QQ Music. He taught himself to make music, using his pocket money to buy materials online to improve his skills.