t in trade in services to be imported
2020-09-07 07:46
A woman interacts with a service robot R during the  China International Fair for Trade in Services CIFTIS in Beijing, capital of China, Sept , . PhotoXinhua    Market access barriers will be lowered to expand development of the industry China will import more than  trillion worth of services over the next  years to support the global economy and enrich its openingup, according to a senior commerce official. Trade in services has become a new driving force for international trade growth, as well as an impetus for economic growth, and Chinas development in service trade will benefit the world, ViceMinister of Commerce Wang Bingnan said on Saturday at a forum at the ongoing  China International Fair for Trade in Services in Beijing. In the recent years, China has promoted the highquality development of service trade with a more open attitude, expanded service imports, created a huge market for global service trade development and contributed to promoting the open and inclusive growth of the global economy, he said. During the past  years, the average annual growth rate of Chinas service trade exports reached  percent, . percentage points higher than the global level, according to the Commerce Ministry. During that period, China imported . trillion worth of services, contributing . percent to the growth of global service trade imports. Ma Jiantang, secretary of the Leading Party Members Group of the Development Research Center of the State Council, said on Saturday, China has been stepping up efforts in openingup, and the service trade industry has experienced rapid growth. China has been constantly developing service trade pilot zones, Ma said. In , there were  service trade pilot zones nationwide, and their trade volume accounted for over  percent of the national total. The development pace in the zones was faster than the national average. This year, the number of service trade pilot zones will increase to , basically forming an allaround layout, he said. To boost the development of the service trade industry, the ministry said China will further lower market access barriers for the industry, continue to reduce the negative list of foreign investment access and accelerate the openingup process of sectors including healthcare, culture, education and telecommunications. Trade in services covers, among other sectors, commerce, communications, construction and related engineering, finance, entertainment, culture and sports, tourism, education and the environment.