UN officials warn against virus prejudice
2020-03-31 23:33
The UN headquarter in New York. PhotoAgencies    United Nations officials have cautioned against coronavirus fears being exploited to attack and exclude minorities. Fernand de Varennes, UN Special Rapporteur on minority issues, said in a statement issued Monday that the exploitation of COVIDrelated fears by groups and politicians to scapegoat minorities is leading to an alarming rise in verbal and physical abuse against Chinese and other minorities, with some being denied access to health care and information about the pandemic. COVID is not just a health issue it can also be a virus that exacerbates xenophobia, hate and exclusion, the UN rights expert said. Reports of Chinese and other Asians being physically attacked of hate speech blaming minorities including Roma, Hispanics and others for the spread of the virus and of politicians calling for migrants to be denied access to medical services, all show that States need to urgently emphasis that the human rights of everyone, in particular of the most vulnerable and marginalized, must be protected, stated de Varennes. De Varennes was appointed as the UN Special Rapporteur on minority issues by the UN Human Rights Council in , to promote the implementation of the Declaration on the Rights of Persons Belonging to National or Ethnic, Religious and Linguistic Minorities, among other things. The coronavirus outbreak endangers the health of all of us, with no distinction as to language, religion or ethnicity. But some are more vulnerable than others, he said. All of us can take steps to resist this rise in discriminatory and hate speech against Asian and other minorities in social media, including by joining our voices in messages of support with the hashtags IAmNotAVirus or JeNeSuisPasUnVirus, he called. Combatting the epidemic requires tackling its darker sides. Firm actions by States and all of us to safeguard the human rights of the most vulnerable and marginalized, including minorities, indigenous communities and migrants, are urgent and necessary, the Special Rapporteur concluded. The High Representative for the United Nations Alliance of Civilizations UNAOC, Miguel Moratinos, and the Special Adviser on the Prevention of Genocide, Adama Dieng, expressed similar concern over the increase in stigma, hate speech and hate crimes targeting individuals and groups wrongfully vilified and perceived to be associated with the corona virus across the globe, also commented. We are all facing the same enemy, one which is invisible, rapidly advancing, taking lives away and causing havoc indiscriminately. But allowing it to tear apart the fabric of our societies is perhaps one of the most serious upheavals that the COVID pandemic is inflicting upon our world, the High Representative and the Special Adviser said in a statement on March  that was shared with China Daily. As much as the pandemic poses a global threat to peace and security, it also presents an opportunity to demonstrate unity and join hands, the statement said. As the pandemic affects everybody, we should all be reminded of our common humanity, and that our lives are interconnected and our survival depends on reciprocal support, it said. In a time of physical distancing, the two leaders called for social solidarity and building bridges of kindness and compassion that transcend manmade walls. Moratinos and Dieng said its imperative to stand up against stigma, hate speech, xenophobia, racism and all forms of discrimination that are an affront to universal human values and rights. And beating the pandemic involves effective international cooperation and implementing an allofsociety approach, one that includes national governments, civil society, media, private companies, faith actors, youth and women. Moratinos and Dieng commend the Global Humanitarian Response Plan COVID launched by UN SecretaryGeneral Antonio Guterres to ensure that no one is left behind in the fight against the pandemic. They also commended the leadership shown by some governments in promoting messages of global solidarity and unity, and in implementing measures against the spread of COVID. Moratinos stressed that the UNAOC continues to work on fulfilling its motto of Many Cultures, One Humanity by fostering intercultural and interfaith dialogue, building bridges of understanding and countering stereotyping and polarization. Dieng emphasized that his office is stepping up its efforts to implement the UN strategy and Plan of Action on Hate Speech globally and nationally to counter hate speech and the related stigmatization and discrimination. If we want societies to be inclusive, cohesive and peaceful, this is the time to foster an alliance between cultures, civilizations, and people. There is no time to lose, the two leaders added.