UKbased charity brings Yunnan clinic
2020-06-20 09:37
Liu Xiaoming, Chinas ambassador to the UK. Photo provided to China Daily    Money collected from Chinese, local business communities in Great Britain Money raised through the ChinaUK Charity Initiative will fund a medical clinic in one of Chinas poorest counties and take SinoBritish cooperation in the fight against poverty and COVID in China to a new high, said Liu Xiaoming, ambassador to the United Kingdom. The , yuan , contribution will benefit more than , villagers in impoverished Jinping county, Yunnan province. The money was collected from the Chinese and British business communities in the UK by the charity, which was jointly established in December  by the China Chamber of Commerce in the UK and The Lord Mayors Appeal. Speaking at a virtual event on Thursday to mark the donation, Liu said the initiative has played an active part in supporting charitable projects in both China and the UK. This charity project we are marking today will provide medical and epidemic prevention services to more than , local villagers, he said. It is a demonstration of profound friendship between China and the UK. It is also a showcase of our joint response to COVID and a vivid illustration of our shared commitment to building a global community of health. Since the novel coronavirus outbreak began, the two countries have supported each other and engaged in closer cooperation, Liu said. This charity project is a new highlight in the ChinaUK joint response to COVID, he added. The ambassador said he is confident the ChinaUK Charity Initiative will always strive on behalf of both nations to alleviate poverty and promote economic and social progress. ViceForeign Minister Qin Gang said,Over the year, the Chinese Foreign Ministry has developed a pairing relationship with Jinping county in Yunnan province to support local poverty relief. Qin said the government takes poverty reduction very seriously, and was heartened to learn that, on May , Jinping county officially emerged from extreme poverty, something Qin described as a historic milestone. In China, the number of people living in poverty was reduced during the seven years beginning in , from nearly  million to . million at an average of nearly  million a year. No other country has ever lifted nearly  million people out of poverty in such a short span of time,Qin said. Lord Mayor of the City of London William Russell also hailed the initiative. We are here to celebrate the partnership of The Lord Mayors Appeal and the China Chamber of Commerce in the UK, a partnership which has already done so much to support the communities through this pandemic, including the huge support given by Bank of China and members of chamber to The Lord Mayors Appeal in their procurement of personal protective equipment for British healthcare workers early this year, Russell said. He also thanked corporate partners and said he was pleased the initiative is easing poverty in Yunnan province. Fang Wenjian, chairman of the chamber, said the clinic project is a continuation of hope, of love and of SinoUK friendship. Last years charitable project helped a rural school in Shaanxi province build a multifunctional hall, which has enriched the schools teaching resources and brought hope to the future development of the children, Fang said. This years Yunnan project will also help improve healthcare in the village, bringing hope to locals by improving the quality of life. Fang said the novel coronavirus pandemic has demonstrated how closely the world is interconnected and how collaboration to tackle problems is the right way forward. The relationship between the UK and China will continue to grow, despite all the challenges, Fang added.