Xis speeches at key events attract praise
2020-11-24 09:04
President Xi Jinping attends Session II of the th G Leaders Summit via video link in Beijing, capital of China, Nov , . PhotoXinhua    President Xi Jinpings speeches at three recent key global meetings as well as Chinas proposals announced by Xi have drawn praise in the international community for their wisdom in helping walk the world out of crisis and for charting future growth after the pandemic, senior Chinese diplomats said. They made the observation after Xi attended and addressed three major multilateral events, from Tuesday to Sundaythe th BRICS Summit, the th APEC Economic Leaders Meeting and the th G Leaders Summit. The gatherings were held via video link at a time when the number of people infected by COVID has exceeded  million worldwide and the global economy has fallen into a severe recession. State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi noted that a total of  important initiatives, propositions and measures have been put forward by Xi during the recent slew of key events to cover agenda items such as epidemic prevention and control, economic and social development, international order in the postepidemic era, global economic governance and building a community with a shared future for mankind. Xi also explained in detail the connotation of Chinas new development paradigm and sent a clear signal that China will promote its own highquality development while opening wider to the outside world, which Wang said has injected strong confidence and strength into the international community. In the battle against the virus, Xi stressed international cooperation and shared Chinas experience in using digital technology for epidemic control and economy recovery. The presidents propositions and initiatives have provided a boost to international antiepidemic cooperation and added confidence to the struggle of all mankind, which is in sharp contrast to the words and actions that politicized the epidemic and stigmatized the virus, Wang said. To boost recovery and development of the world economy, Xi proposed a package of solutions by stressing the need to adhere to development with openness, develop the digital economy, and push forward inclusive and green development. On the global economic governance system, Xi spoke at the G summit about promoting free trade and fair competition, building a strong global financial safety net, and said that China is willing to explore and formulate global digital governance rules. Wang said that the China solution proposed by Xi not only fully reflects the new requirements of Chinas highquality development, but also fully conforms to the direction of world economic growth and meets the interests of the people of all countries. In the first session of the G summit, Xi reaffirmed the countrys commitment to implement the groupings Debt Service Suspension Initiative, which aims at relieving debt burden of lessdeveloped countries. Wang Xiaolong, director general of the Foreign Ministrys Department of International Economic Affairs, said that by far, China is the leading G contributor in terms of implementing the initiative, and the country will continue to work with other parties for realizing its extension. At Fridays APEC Economic Leaders Meeting, Xi said that China will consider joining the Comprehensive and Progressive Agreement for TransPacific Partnership free trade pact.