Two punished for helping exprisoner travel from Wuhan to Beijing
2020-03-22 20:26
Fuhe Toll Station on the Daihuang Expressway in northern Wuhan, Hubei province, is closed, as the city has been put into lockdown because of the ongoing novel coronavirus pneumonia outbreak. Photo by Yuan ZhengFor China Daily    Two people?who helped a released exprisoner with symptoms of the novel coronavirus pneumonia leave the hardesthit city Wuhan and enter?Beijing in February?were given administrative punishments, Beijing police said on Sunday. The two are the daughter and exsoninlaw of the former inmate surnamed Huang, according to a statement of the public security department in the capitals Dongcheng district. The two tested negative after being quarantined for  days. The daughter, , was given an administrative warning for hiding the fact that she and her exhusband surnamed Yang took Huang from Wuhan, Hubei province, by car to her residence, while Yang, , got an administrative detention as he visited?public places in the capital after coming back from Wuhan, the statement said. Given that Huang was not aware of?Beijings quarantine rules and she did not infect others after arriving in Beijing, the police decided not to punish her. The yearold Huang was confirmed to be infected with the novel coronavirus after being driven to Beijing on Feb . On March , she was discharged from a hospital after recovery, the statement said. Her case received wide public attention with people questioning how she could manage to leave Wuhan after the city was locked down and then enter Beijing while showing symptoms of the disease. A joint inspection team led by the Ministry of Justice, Chinas top regulator for prison affairs, later concluded that dereliction of duty played a role in the case and the root problem lay with prison management in Hubei province. It also said the incident endangered epidemic control work in Beijing. Nine officials from Hubei, including head of the provincial justice department, were placed under investigation, while four authorities in Beijing?were also held accountable for loopholes in preventing the disease.