Trump Reopening is up to governors
2020-04-17 11:30
US President Donald Trump announces guidelines for Opening Up America Again as he addresses the daily coronavirus task force briefing at the White House in Washington, US, April , . PhotoAgencies    US President Donald Trump unveiled new guidelines Thursday aimed at reopening the nations economy amid the coronavirus pandemic by putting the responsibility on governors to decide how and when to restart their states economies. We are not opening all at once, but one careful step at a time, Trump said at a coronavirus task force press briefing Thursday in Washington. Were starting our life again. Were starting rejuvenation of our economy again. Earlier Thursday, in a phone conversation with the governors about the guidelines, Trump told them Youre going to call your own shots, according to an audio recording provided to several media organizations. Well be standing right alongside of you, and were going to get our country open and get it working. People want to get working. Putting the responsibility on the governors is a reversal from what Trump said three days ago, when he insisted that the president of the United States calls the shots and that he had the total authority to decide how and when the country reopens. Called Opening Up America Again, the guidelines are not mandatory and are broken into three phases. Each phase requires a day period of downward trajectory of COVID cases in order to move on to the next phase. The first phase keeps current social distancing guidelines in place, including limiting gatherings to fewer than  people, and working from home and keeping schools closed. Bars should remain shuttered, but larger venues, including some restaurants, theaters, gyms and churches, could operate under strict physical distancing protocols. Americans should continue to limit nonessential travel, the guidelines say. During the second phase, in areas that show no signs of a resurgence, students can return to school, residents can resume nonessential travel and bars could operate with diminished standingroom occupancy. The guidelines still encourage companies to practice telework, and vulnerable people are still encouraged to stay home. The third phase continues a gradual easing of restrictions, allowing vulnerable people to return to social settings while practicing physical distancing. Trump and many business leaders have said it is imperative to revive an economy that has been battered by record jobless claims and steep falls in the stock market. An additional . million Americans filed firsttime jobless claims last week, the US Labor Department reported Thursday. The latest unemployment filings boost the total to about  million, nearly erasing all the job gains made since the financial crisis of . Trumps own healthcare experts have warned that reopening too soon will lead to more spikes in coronavirus cases at a time when the epidemic appears to be ebbing. Officials from the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention CDC warned that reopening the nation will require a massive capacity to test, track and treat people for the virus. The White House announced Thursday that  senators and  House members would serve as part of an Open Up America Again congressional group. Trump and members of his administration spoke to lawmakers Thursday to discuss plans to restart the economy as well as a range of topics including relief for small businesses, the medical supply chain and mental health. In New Jersey, Governor Phil Murphy on Thursday ordered a probe into longterm care facilities after a makeshift morgue was found at a nursing home devastated by the coronavirus, raising questions about the death toll at homes for the elderly. Murphy said he asked his attorney general to launch an investigation after becoming outraged that bodies of the dead were allowed to pile up in a room at a nursing home in Andover, a town in the northern part of the state. New Jersey has reported more than , COVID deaths, second in the US after New York. The US has more cases and deaths than any country in the world, with more than , diagnosed cases and at least , deaths, according to data compiled by Johns Hopkins University. With  states under stayathome orders, organized protests have popped up in several states challenging the restrictions on gathering. Protesters showed up in Virginias state capital of Richmond on Thursday, following one in Michigan on Wednesday. Utah, North Carolina and Ohio also saw demonstrations this week, and more are planned for the coming days, including in Oregon, Idaho, Texas and New Jersey. Many municipalities have begun counting probable deaths caused by COVID, including New York City, the epicenter of the disease in the US. The global death toll stands at more than , people, according to data from the university. More than . million have been infected with the novel coronavirus worldwide. A federal loan program  the Paycheck Protection Program intended to help small businesses keep workers on their payrolls has run out of money. Millions of businesses cant apply for the loans until Congress replenishes the funds. Congress initially allocated  billion for the program, which was intended to provide loans to businesses with  or fewer employees. More than . million loans have been approved as of Wednesday. New York states shutdown will last until at least May , Governor Andrew Cuomo said on Thursday. He announced that the states official death toll had risen by  to ,, an increase in fatalities that was the states lowest in  days. Cuomo said that more essential businesses with a low infection risk would be prioritized for reopening, but he didnt give a specific timeline. Less essential industries with a high infection risk would be the last priority, depending on infection decline and precautions put in place. On Friday starting at  pm, the state is requiring people to wear facial coverings in public when they cant keep  feet of social distancing. It applies to sidewalks, grocery stores, buses, subway cars and rideshare services. Reuters contributed to this story.