Tourists looking longingly at holidays on eased outbreak
2020-04-01 09:48
Children play at a park in Haian, Jiangsu province, over the weekend. Photo by?Xu JinboFor China Daily    Areas lessaffected by epidemic become popular destinations on the togo list The willingness among Chinese to travel to popular tourist sites has shown signs of recovery, particularly for the upcoming holidays in late spring and early summer, as the novel coronavirus epidemic continues to abate domestically, according to industry experts. Data from Fliggy, Alibabas online travel service provider, show a recovery in travel plans for the upcoming Tomb Sweeping Day holiday April . From March , bookings for train tickets and scenic areas surged by over  percent and hotel reservations rose by roughly  percent compared with the previous week. Most train bookings are for interprovincial travel. Due to contagion restrictions, massive cancellations and delays of travel reservations took place during the Spring Festival holidaythe peak season for tourism in the country. But as the Tomb Sweeping holiday approaches, recoveries of tourism sectors in Shanghai, Chengdu, Sichuan province, Hangzhou, Zhejiang province and Shenzhen and Guangzhou in Guangdong province, are most visible, Fliggy said. Currently, , Alevel tourist sites have resumed operations nationwide. If the tourist sector recovery during the upcoming Tomb Sweeping holiday is not substantial enough, industry research suggests the desire to travel during the Labor Day holidaywhich has been extended to five days May  this yearwill be even stronger. According to TongchengElong, a major online travel platform, a surge in interest to visit popular tourist sites was seen based on searches for air tickets, train tickets, accommodations and scenic spot tickets during the holiday in early May. If the situation of the domestic epidemic continues to improve, the public holiday in May will become the first tourism peak since the beginning of , according to the report by TongchengElong. Holiday plan searches, conducted between March  and , for May holiday flights rose  percent over the previous week. The searched destinations are mostly cities that were spared the brunt of the viral outbreak. Train tickets to Urumqi, the Xinjiang Uygur autonomous region, increased  percent yearonyear for the May Day holiday. Other popular searches concerned information on flights to Shanghai, Shenzhen, Guangzhou, Chengdu and Beijing. Meanwhile, according to a survey by TongchengElong, . percent of hotels on the Chinese mainland have resumed operations as of March , up more than  percentage points from the levels on Feb . Searches for hotel bookings on April  surged over levels seen on March , with search results peaking for May . Major searched destinations were Guangdong, Sichuan, Zhejiang and Jiangsu provinces as well as the Guangxi Zhuang autonomous region. Lowertier cites have seen more positive recovery of their hotel business than first and secondtier cities, and southern cities are faring better than those in the north, according to the results. At present, tourism departments in places including Shanghai as well as Zhejiang and Jiangxi provinces show that all tourismrelated businesses have resumed local operations. Tourism in Sanya, Hainan province, has recovered quickly. On March , Liang Jianzhang, chairman of Ctrip.comthe countrys leading online travel platformheld a livestreaming event during which , reservations for Atlantis Sanya were made in one hour, worth about  million yuan . million. The reservations included accommodations and tickets to the resorts entertainment facilities. Heiko Schreiner, manager director of Atlantis Sanyaa landmark resort in the coastal cityhas seen rising confidence and strong demand among consumers to travel, as the prevention and control measures of the coronavirus outbreak have shown significant progress. The upcoming two holidays will bring good opportunities to the travel sector in Hainan, Schreiner said. The resort continues strengthening its epidemic prevention efforts and prioritizing the safety and health of guests and employees, he added. Still, it takes time for the hospitality sector to recover to its former vitality. The occupancy rate of hotels nationwide has grown from less than  percent at the end of February to  percent on March , according to hospitality tracking firm STR. TongchengElong has warned that tourists should continue to take precautionary measures during their travels. Yang Yanfeng, a researcher at the China Tourism Academy, said there will be a shift in the structure of chosen destinations during the coming travel season in late spring and early summer. More trips will be made to nearby villages, along with short trips between cities and suburbs, Yang said.