Tourist attractions adopting crowd control measures for holiday
2021-02-10 16:29
Tourists pose for a photo at the Harbin IceSnow World in Harbin, Northeast Chinas Heilongjiang province, Dec , . PhotoXinhua    Eighty percent of the countrys Aclass tourist attractions will be open as usual during the sevenday Spring Festival holiday, a senior official of the Ministry of Culture and Tourism said on Wednesday. Hou Zhengang, an official from the ministrys market management department, said at a news conference in addition to the seasonal closure of tourist attractions in some areas in the north of the country, as well as those under strict epidemic prevention and control requirements,  percent of the countrys Aclass tourist attractions will operate normally to meet the publics needs during the holiday. At the same time, all Aclass tourist attractions will limit tickets sold daily, ask for reservations and encourage staggered visits to avoid mass gatherings, he said. Due to the COVID pandemic, a large number of people across the country will stay in their cities of work instead of traveling back home for the Spring Festival holiday, which starts on Thursday. Hou said to meet peoples needs for leisure during the festival while maintaining epidemic control and prevention, the ministry has made efforts to provide highquality services. It has cooperated with China National Arts Fund, the National Peking Opera Company and other cultural and media platforms to launch a number of online services. The China National Arts Fund will broadcast  outstanding stage works, and the National Ballet of China will livestream their performances. The ministry also encouraged localities to promote tourism services, including urban tours, suburban tours, rural tours, road trips and festivalthemed tours and organize local cultural activities in an orderly fashion. The ministry also urged culture and tourism departments at all levels to strictly implement prevention and control measures to prevent the spread of the coronavirus through cultural and tourism activities, and carry out indepth investigation to root out safety hazards during the holiday.