Tourism operators still upbeat amid new infections
2021-08-05 10:02
Photo provided to China Daily    Tourism operators remain optimistic about the longterm prospects of the domestic industry, despite the recent resurgence of COVID cases. In the first six months of the year, the tourism market showed stable recovery, with total domestic trips growing just over  percent yearonyear to more than . billion. The figure was released in late July by the Ministry of Culture and Tourism, who said that the domestic trips were roughly  percent of those taken in  before the first COVID outbreak. The situation in the tourism sector changed in late July after Zhengzhou in Henan province was hit by torrential rains and floods, and Jiangsu and Hunan provinces reported COVID outbreaks, said Wang Mojie, an employee at an online travel agency in Shanghai. All these natural disasters and new cases have hit the industry hard, Wang said. But thanks to the lessons we learned from the epidemic last year, we soon made new plans, for example, focusing on shortdistance tours within a province, to reduce losses. We had very positive expectations for the tourism market during the summer vacation because the market has performed well in the first half year, Wang said. The outbreak cast a shadow over the tourism market during all of , he said. However, operators were prepared for a comeback this year and had improved tour services in a bid to stimulate the market. Wang said despite sporadic cases of COVID found in Guangzhou, Guangdong province, in May and June when the summer vacation began, the tourism market hadnt been greatly affected. Travelers at the time still showed very strong interest in going out, he said. Weve also developed some culturerelated campaigns, such as online sightseeing, to help the company get through the hard times. The industry players, including operators at scenic spots, hotels and travel agencies, have made great sacrifices so far to ensure travelers safety. Tuniu, an online travel agency, said its July bookings in Beijinga peak time for summer vacationshave fallen by  to  percent since the city reported confirmed COVID cases on July . All travel agencies have suspended services to areas with medium or high risk of infection, as required by the Culture and Tourism Ministry. Chen Luling, who canceled on Monday her trip to Sanya, Hainan province, due to tightened epidemic control and prevention measures, said once the restrictions are relaxed she will make the trip with her family. We got over the crisis in , so why not believe the government has the methods to get through the current hardships? I have confidence in them and so do my family members, she said. A recent report by the World Tourism Alliance shows that the average prosperity index for Chinas tourism operations in the second half of the year is. While it is negative, it is the highest since the epidemic broke out. The index is calculated based on  questionnaires collected before July . The index ranges from, very pessimistic, to, very optimistic.