Tourism insiders see growth return in
2021-02-23 09:02
Tourists enjoy a performance at Xiangbei River Scenic Area. File photo by Qin Fangsigxnews.com.cn    Domestic tourism insiders are bullish on the industrys recovery this year after the severe blow dealt to it by the COVID pandemic last year. The China Tourism Academy gave its positive estimation in a report released on Monday that said the domestic tourism market will see . billion trips this year   percent more than last year  generating revenue of . trillion yuan  billion, up  percent yearonyear. Last year, the industry endured a hard time due to the pandemic. The Ministry of Culture and Tourism said domestic tourism revenue dropped by . percent yearonyear in , with just . trillion yuan generated for the year. Reviewing the market of , the hardest time was the period after the Spring Festival holiday when the coronavirus epidemic broke out, Dai Bin, president of the tourism academy, said at an online news conference on Monday. The whole market and operators, including administrative officers, company operators and employees, were puzzled and couldnt even see a clear future for the industry, he said. But the panic has been curbed in a timely manner thanks to the government and unity of industry insiders. The pandemic has triggered a global economic crisis that may continue for years and has also brought some changes to peoples consumption and travel preferences, as well as management of the tourism industry. According to the academys report, increased individual trips and online reservations to attractions have made technology such as artificial intelligence and big data vital to travel plans. Peoples rising preference for traveling by car or visiting attractions where there are fewer people and vast landsfor example, Northwest Chinahas given clues about how the market could change to improve its recovery and future development. Stagnant outbound tourism also offers an opportunity for the development of the domestic travel market. The report said more Chinese travelers are making indepth trips to domestic attractions rather than going for a quick tour overseas. That trend will be enhanced as the quality of domestic tours improves and outbound trips remain suspended. Peoples growing desire for travel is another encouragement for the domestic tourism market. Now and in the future, we have great confidence in the governments management and prevention work against COVID, and are optimistic about the development of the tourism market, Dai said.