Tourism focus should be domestic market
2020-10-28 07:18
SHI YUCHINA DAILY    For tourist sites and the tourist industry as a whole, an ideal situation would be balanced development of domestic tourism, and inbound and outbound tourism. But in reality, the pace of growth of the three markets is different owing to their different development stages and consumption capacities. For years since the launch of reform and openingup, the tourism industry focused on inbound tourism. The domestic tourism and outbound tourism sectors developed later, and their market scales were comparatively small. The development pattern began changing in the mids. During the th FiveYear Plan  period, the outbound tourism markets scale was larger and its pace of growth higher than the inbound tourism market. China accounts for the largest number of outbound tourists in the world it is also the fourthlargest destination for foreign tourists. Had the novel coronavirus pandemic not broken out, by the end of this year the total numbers of domestic tourists, inbound tourists and outbound tourists were expected to increase by  percent,  percent and  percent respectively during the th Five Year Plan period. The pandemic has changed the growth trajectory of the tourism and many other sectors. Yet under the leadership of President Xi Jinping and with the concerted efforts of the people and governments at all levels, China has effectively contained the virus, and resumed production and other economic activities. The countrys leadership has now decided to follow a dual circulation development pattern, which is centered on the domestic economy internal circulation and aims to integrate the domestic economy with the global economy external circulation in order to enhance Chinas global competitiveness and cooperation. During the National Day Golden Week holiday, the number of domestic tourists was about  percent of last year, and the domestic tourism industrys income was . percent visvis last yeara remarkable recovery considering the huge impact of the pandemic. Shortdistance family trips were most popular during the Golden Week holiday, with museums, urban parks, commercial districts and suburban tourist sites being high on the tourists list. Also, thanks to the dutyfree policy, the daily revenue of Hainan provinces duty free sales sector exceeded  million yuan . million during the National Day holiday, which saw many potential outbound tourists opt for domestic destinations. As such, tourism has become an important driver of postpandemic economic recovery for China. The pandemic has had a profound impact on the world. And since it is still raging in many parts of the world, the global tourism industry is not likely to recover soon. According to the estimation of some international organizations including the United Nations, it would take at least two to three years for the global tourism industry to recover. So countries that have been traditional tourist destinations should take appropriate measures to ride out the rough road ahead. It is important to explore new measures to encourage potential outbound tourists to satisfy their travel lust on the domestic circuit. However, the domestic tourism industry needs to improve its services and marketing system to attract more tourists, especially potential outbound tourists, in order to boost the recovery of the tourism industry. Compared with the sluggish global tourism market, the domestic tourism market has recovered to a large extent. And the domestic tourism industry can further propel its growth by seizing the opportunities offered by Chinas economic recovery, while strictly following the epidemic prevention and control measures. The pandemic has changed the nature of tourism, as more people today prefer shortdistance travel during holidays because they seem more concerned about prevention and control measures, and security and emergency plans. Since this trend is likely to continue during a part of the th FiveYear Plan  period, travel agencies and tourist sites should make arrangements to meet the tourists new demands. Travel agencies should also provide better services to satisfy tourists needs, so as to attract more domestic tourists. The author is director of the Tourism Research Center under the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences. The views dont necessarily represent those of China Daily. If you have a specific expertise and would like to contribute to China Daily, please contact us at opinionchinadaily.com.cn , and commentchinadaily.com.cn ?