Top DPRK leader guides Political Bureau meeting over COVID protection measures
2020-07-03 15:24
DPRK leader Kim Jongun guides the th enlarged meeting of Political Bureau of th Central Committee of WPK on July , . PhotoAgencies    PYONGYANG  Kim Jongun, top leader of the Democratic Peoples Republic of Korea DPRK, guided an enlarged Political Bureau meeting here on Thursday over COVID protection measures, the official Korean Central News Agency reported Friday. At the meeting, as the first agenda item they reviewed the work of the past six months for preventing the malignant contagious disease and discussed an issue on further consolidating the present antiepidemic situation by enhancing the state emergency antiepidemic work, the report said. After analyzing in detail the six monthlong national emergency antiepidemic work, Kim said we have thoroughly prevented the inroad of the malignant virus and maintained stable antiepidemic situation despite the worldwide health crisis, which is a shining success achieved by the Party leadership and a high sense of voluntary spirit of the people. The DPRK has claimed that there are no COVID cases in the country so far due to the timely and strict protection measures taken by the government. At the meeting, Kim stressed the need to maintain maximum alert without a slight selfcomplacence or relaxation on the antiepidemic front, and rearrange and practice stricter antiepidemic effort under the prevailing situation. The countrys top leader made sharp criticism of inattention, onlooking and chronic attitude getting prevalent among officials, and violation of the rules of the emergency antiepidemic work as this work takes on a protracted character, according to the report. Kim repeatedly warned that hasty relief of antiepidemic measures will result in unimaginable and irretrievable crisis, stressing that all the sectors and units should further strengthen the emergency antiepidemic work till the danger of pandemic incoming is completely rid of. The meeting also discussed the hastening of the Pyongyang General Hospital construction project, with Kim having expressed satisfaction at project progress. The hospital was under construction since early this year and supposed to be completed by October.