Top car industry body calls for favorable policies
2020-03-16 13:17
FAWVolkswagens TRoc model is displayed at the Guangzhou auto show last year.Photo by Li FushengChina Daily    Measures aim to support manufacturers amid falling purchases nationwide The China Association of Automobile Manufacturers is calling on authorities to launch a slew of favorable policies that include extending the term of subsidies for new energy vehicles to boost the countrys slowing car sales. Without favorable policies and market demand, it will be difficult for the automotive industry to steer back to normal in a short time, said Shi Jianhua, the associations deputy secretarygeneral, on Thursday. Due to the coronavirus outbreak which has kept people away from showrooms, vehicle sales in February slumped  percent from the same month in  to ,. In the first two months of , vehicles sales totaled . million in the country, down  percent yearonyear, according to the CAAM. Production did not fare any better. A total of , vehicles rolled off assembly lines in February, plunging almost  percent yearonyear. With both production and sales falling sharply, the auto industry will suffer a lot in the first half of the year, said the association. Shi said it is now hard to forecast vehicle sales this year. The association estimated that sales would dip  percent this year before the coronavirus outbreak hit. Chinas vehicle sales fell in  and . Another car association in the country, the China Passenger Car Association, has scaled down its estimate of vehicle sales this year and predicted a fall of  percent from . One of the measures Shis association has put forward is extending the term of subsidies for new energy vehicles, sales of which fell sharply in February. Statistics show that just , electric cars and plugin hybrids were sold in February as the coronavirus outbreak prevented people from visiting showrooms. In the same month last year, it was ,. Their sales had shown a downturn for months before the epidemic because of the subsidies cutback in . The country started to offer financial incentives in  to foster the sectors development. They are scheduled to stop completely by the end of .