Tombsweeping hits epidemic wall this year, giving rise to new culture
2020-03-25 07:27
A woman prays over a grave during the annual Qingming festival, or Tomb Sweeping Day, at a public cemetery in Shanghai on April , . PhotoCFP    The Ministry of Civil Affairs held a meeting on Monday to tell local authorities to suspend group tombsweeping activities during this years Qingming Festival in order to prevent the novel coronavirus from spreading. Qingming Festival, during which people pay their respects to their forefathers by visiting their graves, is of great significance to Chinese people. But this year the festival, which falls on April , comes at a crucial stage in the fight against the novel coronavirus outbreak and the restarting of industrial production. Although the outbreak has largely been contained and all walks of life are returning to normal, it is still necessary to avoid largescale gatherings to stop the virus from returning. Many local governments have therefore announced strict restrictions on tombsweeping activities this year, with the Tianjin authorities deciding on March  to suspend them and cemeteries in Wuxi, Jiangsu province, letting their own staff carry out the tombsweeping activities for people. Although the virus has largely been controlled, there is still a risk of it spreading from the everincreasing imported cases. That is why epidemic prevention and control measures cannot be relaxed yet. However, the restrictions have given rise to alternatives, with many organizations launching cloud tombsweeping services to let the people fulfill their traditional obligations without touching anybody. The Guangdong Civil Affairs Bureau has launched a cloud tombsweeping service on the provinces egovernment platform on WeChat. On March , leading funeral and interment service provider Fu Shou Yuan International Group launched a cloud tombsweeping service at its branches in more than  cities. In the week since becoming operational, its cloud tombsweeping platform has had more than , visitors. Such online tombsweeping services, which can stop the virus from spreading while also meeting the public demand during Qingming Festival, should be encouraged nationwide. In fact, such an environmentfriendly method should be promoted even after the epidemic is fully contained to give rise to a new green culture in China.