Xis G speech shows Chinas commitment to cooperation in COVID fight, experts say
2020-03-27 11:15
President Xi Jinping speaks during the G Extraordinary Leaders Summit on COVID on Thursday. The president participated in the summit, which was in the form of a videoconference, at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing. LI XUERENPANG XINGLEIXINHUA    BEIJING  President Xi Jinpings keynote speech at the extraordinary G leaders summit on Thursday has shown Chinas commitment as a major country to promoting international cooperation in the COVID fight, experts have said. Ren Minghui, assistant directorgeneral for universal health coverage, communicable and noncommunicable diseases of the World Health Organization, said Xis speech demonstrated Chinas stance on the global fight against COVID and the perfection of public health emergency response system. ? In the process of the establishment of a public health emergency response mechanism worldwide, China has actively shared its experience and provided financial and technical assistance to cope with the Ebola virus and other global actions for epidemic prevention, Ren said. He added that China has effectively controlled the COVID epidemic, which has brought hope to global epidemic prevention and control. Stephen Perry, chairman of Britains  Group Club, said that China has set an example for the world and earned time for the world to battle the pandemic. As to the Xiproposed notion of a community with a shared future for mankind, he said it is a great contribution to the world as it leaves behind the concepts of excessive self interest and focuses on the huge benefits that can come from cooperation. Giray Fidan, a Turkish sinologist working for the Ankara Hacibayram Veli University, said that the extent of the virus revealed the fact that facing such a big problem that threatens the entire humanity, all countries must act together and cooperate. Under such circumstances, Xis emphasis on building a strong global network of control and treatment has vital importance for humanity, Fidan added. Jannie Rossouw, head of the School of Economic and Business Sciences at the University of the Witwatersrand in South Africa, said that other countries where the disease is still escalating could learn a lot from China and its measures and strategies. The countries need to work together to come with a coordinated plan on how to boost the economy and reduce the virus, said Rossouw. Lee Heeok, director of the Sungkyun Institute of China Studies at Sungkyunkwan University in Seoul, said that in the global response to COVID, China has provided useful reference for other countries to explore and carry out their own epidemic prevention and control efforts. Major infectious diseases are common enemies of mankind, said Lee, adding that the extraordinary G leaders summit is significant because it will help countries bridge differences in understanding, coordinate actions with others and strengthen antiepidemic cooperation. Humphrey Moshi, director of the Center for Chinese Studies at the University of Dar es Salaam, agreed with Xis proposals during the summit. Virus knows no borders, said Moshi, adding that China, still facing an arduous epidemic prevention and control task, has sent medical experts to Italy, Iran and other countries, provided medical supplies and shared antivirus experience. China has implemented the vision of a community with a shared future for mankind with concrete actions, which has fully demonstrated Chinas responsibility as a major country and the importance of unity and coordination to tackle the crisis, Moshi added.