Timely services for the world
2021-03-29 08:52
SF Holdings freighters wait for loading at Shenzhen Baoan International Airport. With a fleet of  aircraft, the company is all set to join the league of global logistics giants. PhotoChina Daily    Success spurs courier and logistics giant SF Holding to expand its operations abroad Shenzhenlisted SF Holding Co, one of Chinas largest courier companies by volume of packages delivered and sales revenue, is stepping up its overseas expansion. SF Holding, which owns a fleet of  aircraft, said it is all set to join the league of global logistics giants such as FedEx, UPS and DHL. International flight networks are the core competence of SF as it seeks to provide international courier services. According to the companys latest earnings report, SFs  revenue from international operations was . billion yuan  million, up  percent, making it the fastestgrowing business segment. By consolidating its operations in Europe and Southeast Asia, SF Airlines, a subsidiary of SF Holding, made a breakthrough in regional capacity in North America in November. By the end of , SF Holdings international courier and economy courier businesses covered  countries and regions, including the United States, Canada, Russia, Japan, South Korea, India and Mexico. Its international small parcel business covered  countries and regions. The company has about , delivery personnel under various workforce models, it said. Besides, SF has set up branches in more than  countries and regions, and built  overseas warehouses. It has Customs clearance capacity in more than  gateways in China and operates selfowned gateways in the US, Singapore, South Korea and Mongolia, the company said. SF will continue to contribute to the building of an international corridor for the economies involved in the Belt and Road Initiative, said Yan Ruolan, strategy director of SF International. Following the signing of the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership agreement, we will continue to innovate our business model and raise efficiencies and profits, she said. The RCEP agreement was signed late last year and created the worlds largest free trade bloc, and member countries account for nearly onethird of the worlds population. By the end of last year, SF operated , cargo routes in all and , flights daily on average last year. The total air cargo volume it handled was about . million metric tons, of which the volume handled by allcargo aircraft was , tons, up nearly  percent yearonyear, according to its earnings report. SF has been continuously launching new routes to further improve its international route networks, the company said. Ezhou Huahu Airport in Hubei province, a customized airport that SF is constructing with the provincial government, will become the first cargo hub airport in China. The facility is expected to be put into use by the end of this year or early next year, and will function as an international air cargo hub and a gateway airport for air trade between China and other countries. Meanwhile, SF Holding has made an offer to pay HK . billion . billion in cash to acquire . percent stake in Hong Konglisted Kerry Logistics Network Ltd, it said in an announcement published in February. Kerry Logistics, a spinoff of Kerry Properties Ltd and ultimately controlled by Malaysian billionaire Robert Kuok, provides warehousing, distribution and supply chain solutions to companies across Asia. It offers services to help Asian customers to export their goods to Europe and the US. The deal would combine the capabilities of the two parties to create one of Asias biggest logistics groups. Following the acquisition, SF Express plans to explore cooperation with Kerry Logistics in airfreight, ocean cargo services, Customs brokerage, and crossborder logistics services to grow its business internationally. In the long term, as an international logistics company, its important to build lowcost transportation ability and professional operations teams to win over more customers. The acquisition is expected to help SF to get opportunities to cooperate with more top multinationals in courier services, said Zhao Xiaomin, a logistics industry analyst. Founded in , SF has constantly strengthened its transportation capacity and entered a golden period of international trade, especially for premium fresh products. Chinese consumers have also shown an increasingly higher demand for such products in recent years. Last year, China imported , tons of fresh durians from Thailand and the import value reached . billion yuan. Among the fruits that China imported from abroad, Thai durians topped the list in terms of both quantity and value, according to the Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives of Thailand. Now, it only takes  hours for Thai durians to be transported from Thai farms to Chinese dining tables, using express delivery services of SF International between Thailand and China. The duration includes the processing time of pruning and packaging, according to the courier. Traditionally, Thai durians were mainly transported by trucks and ships internationally, and they were picked  days before maturing on trees to guarantee the freshness through long transportation. Today, durians are picked after they mature on trees, SF said. In addition, with the direct shipment by SF International, it takes  hours to pick roses from gardens in Ethiopia and export them so as to reach consumers in China. Addis Ababa in Ethiopia has been known for growing topquality roses, and the city is about , kilometers away from China. In the past, flowers planted in Africa were usually transported to China by flights with a stopover in Amsterdam. Owing to the COVID pandemic, a large number of international flights operated by commercial airlines were canceled. To meet global demand for epidemic prevention materials and other goods, SF International resumed or launched services on  international freight routes, transporting more than , tons of goods in , the company said. Chinas industrial and consumption sectors are undergoing significant changes, and the courier segment in China is facing greater challenges and better opportunities than those in the US, said Changjiang Securities in a recent research report.