Timely pep talks
2020-03-19 07:36
JIN DINGCHINA DAILY    Communication has helped to ease concerns about the novel coronavirus in Cameroon and forge a closer bond with China Chinas efforts to control the novel coronavirus have achieved remarkable results, and a positive trend has developed. However, the epidemic is spreading in other countries, and many African countries have confirmed imported cases. The global epidemic prevention and control situation is still grim. Cameroon, which confirmed two new cases on March , is trying to take measures to stop the spread of the epidemic. It has traced  people who had come into close contact with the two people infected with the virus. Since the outbreak of the epidemic, China has always carried out international cooperation in the prevention and control of the epidemic in an open, transparent and responsible manner, which has been highly recognized by the international community, including Cameroon. On Jan , Cameroonian President Paul Biya sent a letter of condolence to President Xi Jinping, expressing support to the Chinese government and people for their heroic efforts to combat the epidemic. Cameroons minister of external relations and minister of public health have repeatedly praised Chinas antiepidemic measures and its spirit of international cooperation, expressing confidence that China will overcome the epidemic and promising not to take drastic measures, such as evacuating Cameroonian nationals from China. Students from the Confucius Institute at the University of Yaound II and many Cameroonian friends have made videos to cheer on the city of Wuhan, as well as Hubei province and the rest of China. This has fully reflected the Cameroonian peoples friendship toward the Chinese people, and we have been deeply touched and encouraged. The Chinese embassy in Cameroon has informed the Cameroonian government and the public of Chinas prevention and control measures in a timely manner, guiding people from all walks of life in Cameroon to view the outbreak rationally, respond scientifically and avoid panic. Media briefings have been held to introduce Chinas prevention and control measures, the international cooperation efforts to contain the virus, the situation of foreigners in China, and to answer the concerns of the Cameroonian people. Counselor of the Chinese embassy in Cameroon Wang Dong participated in a special live broadcast on the novel coronavirus on CRTV News to dispel doubts and give a clear picture of the situation. The embassy has also made good use of social media such as WeChat, Twitter and Facebook to release authoritative information and offer safety tips, expose and criticize false rumors, and provide comprehensive and true information to the Cameroonian society. We attach great importance to the care of Cameroonian students in China and their relatives. Cameroonian Kem Senou Pavel Daryl was the first African diagnosed with the virus in China, and he became a focus of concern in Cameroon. We immediately contacted the related departments in China to confirm his condition and later announced the students treatment and discharge, with the news announced by the media in Cameroon. On Feb , I sent a letter to the head of the association of parents of Cameroonian overseas students in China, introducing the relevant information and stressing that the Chinese government attaches great importance to the safety and livelihood of foreigners in China. After Pavel was cured and discharged from hospital on Feb , he made positive comments on Chinas measures and made it clear that the novel coronavirus was treatable, which largely dispelled the disquiet in the Cameroonian society. The embassy also established a communication mechanism with the parents of students in China to timely inform them of the epidemic situation and the living conditions of students in China. Some parents noting that China is fully capable of containing the epidemic and ensuring their childrens safety, said that staying in China was the best choice for their children. We have also adhered to the principle of diplomacy for the people and actively provided consular protection and assistance to overseas Chinese in Cameroon. The embassy has provided antiepidemic materials to the Chinese medical team in Cameroon and guided Chinese institutions and enterprises in Cameroon to implement prevention and control measures. We will pay close attention to the trend of the epidemic in Cameroon and report the latest progress as soon as possible, provide warnings and services, and guide Chinese expatriates to take preventative measures. The consular office of the embassy strengthened the preventive measures at the service windows and insisted on daily disinfection, so as to reassure the overseas Chinese and foreigners who came to the embassy to apply for visas. Overseas Chinese and Chinesefunded enterprises in Cameroon are also very concerned about the domestic epidemic. A number of overseas Chinese groups have launched a donation campaign to help China fight the epidemic, expressing their touching patriotic feelings. Chinas fight against the epidemic has set an example for other countries. To prevent and slow down the spread of the virus, China has taken comprehensive, resolute and thorough measures and made great sacrifices, creating conditions for victory over the epidemic and the resumption of work and production. At the same time, China has bought time and made contributions to the prevention and control of the epidemic in other countries. A friend in need is a friend indeed. We are deeply impressed by the understanding and support of the Cameroonian government and people from all walks of life. The virus knows no borders, nor does it distinguish between race and nationality. Only through unity, cooperation and concerted response can all countries finally overcome the outbreak and realize the comprehensive and free development of humans. China will continue to prevent and control the epidemic and resume production, and share with other countries its prevention and control measures, treatment plans and treatment experience. China is ready to strengthen cooperation with Cameroon, provide support and assistance within its capacity, work with Cameroon to fight the epidemic and build an even closer ChinaAfrica community with a shared future.