Time to strengthen health governance
2020-02-07 07:16
A recovering pneumonia patient gives a thumbsup to medical workers at Wuhan Universitys Zhongnan Hospital on Jan , . GAO XIANGFOR CHINA DAILY    The sudden outbreak of the novel coronavirus ahead of this years Spring Festival holiday has turned into a nationwide epidemic that poses severe challenges to Chinas public health and epidemic prevention management system. The Communist Party of China Central Committee and the State Council, Chinas Cabinet, are paying the greatest attention to the epidemic prevention and control work, and a joint battle against the virus has been launched by the Party committees and governments at various levels. One of the advantages of Chinas national governance system is its ability to concentrate efforts and resources as needed, which is not only manifest in major projects and significant events, but also in coping with national emergencies. Chinas successful governance and social management during the severe acute respiratory syndrome SARS outbreak in  and the Wenchuan earthquake in  demonstrated its ability to effectively deal with significant emergencies. Based on its national governance system advantages, China is confident in and capable of winning the battle against the novel coronavirus. To this end, China has established a unified, highlevel leadership mechanism to further leverage its governance system advantages. On Jan , the Standing Committee of the Political Bureau of the CPC Central Committee decided to establish a leading group to guide the battle against the epidemic. And President Xi Jinping has deployed military medical teams to assist the novel coronavirus prevention and control work in Wuhan. Chinas capabilities are also evidenced by the newly built Huoshenshan hospital in Wuhan. More than , workers participated in the construction of the hospital that covers , square meters and has , beds, and which was completed in only  days. Behind this incredible Chinese speed is Chinas excellent governance system, which is also the guarantee that the country will win the battle against the novel coronavirus. Learning from the lessons of SARS outbreak, China has improved and modernized its modern emergency management system as well as public health management. Nevertheless, the sudden outbreak of the novel coronavirus has exposed some loopholes in local public health emergency management. First is the slow response of public health emergency sector in the epidemic outbreak region. After the novel coronavirus broke out in Wuhan, Zhejiang province immediately launched a top level public health emergency response, but despite being the epicenter of the outbreak, Hubei province, did not initiate a top level public health emergency response until Jan . Second, the reserves and supply of emergency medical equipment such as face masks and hazmat suits have proved to be insufficient in many local areas. In the early stage of the outbreak, many local areas, Wuhan in particular, have faced severe shortages of essential epidemic prevention and control items such as masks and protective clothing as well as necessary medical materials. Third, the public health emergency management capacity of local officials in epidemic outbreak regions needs to be improved. At the early stage of the outbreak, many local officials lacked sufficient riskprevention consciousness and exposed insufficient resource planning capacity and information communication capacity. In addition, the publics widespread panic reminds us the publics awareness of what to do in a public health crisis needs to be enhanced. The novel coronavirus epidemic should hammer home the point that the public health emergency management is an indispensable part of national and local governance. The government should pay more attention to the public health emergency management to promote its modernization. To further improve the public health emergency management system, the government should first learn from the experiences and lessons of coping with epidemic situations, and optimize the public health emergency plan mechanism and emergency response mechanism. Second, the authorities should improve the crossregional and crossdepartment emergency response mechanism. A unified and highly efficient public health emergency frontline command mechanism should be built to integrate emergency resources to the maximum. Third, local officials public health emergency management capacity, in particular their executive capacity, should be strengthened through training. Fourth, the authorities should enhance research and development of public health technology to improve the countrys public health management capabilities, and enforce the ban on the trade of wild animals to cut the disease transmission at the root. They should also emphasize development of the relevant basic sciences to fight against epidemics with scientific weapons. Last but not the least, the public should strengthen its capacity to cope with a public health emergency so they can better play their part in epidemic management. The author is a researcher with the Chinese Academy of Governance. The views dont necessarily represent those of China Daily.