Time to help small and micro businesses to vitalize market
2021-03-17 07:32
A view of Beijing on Oct , . PhotoIC    China has made steady economic recovery over the past two months thanks to rapidly growing exports, increasing investment and consumption, and stable employment and prices. China was the first country to effectively contain the novel coronavirus epidemic and the only major economy to achieve positive growth last year. Over the past two months, China has sustained the momentum of economic recovery which started during the second quarter of , laying a solid foundation for the overall economic recovery. Statistics show that Chinas industrial production grew faster in the two months and added value of industries above designated size increased by . percent yearonyear. But given that the international situation is uncertain, the pandemic is yet to be contained worldwide, and prevention and control measures are still in force in China, the countrys economic recovery is not solid enough. That explains why Premier Li Keqiang stressed in the Government Work Report delivered to the National Peoples Congress, the countrys top legislature, that the country will continue the macro policies to promote economic growth, adjusting them only if necessary. Economic data show that Chinas small and micro enterprises continued to face production and operation difficulties over the past two months. The yearonyear growth rate of the enterprises main indicators looks good, but thats because of the low base during the corresponding period last year. Small, micro and individual businesses were the first to suffer the impact of the outbreak because of their weak ability to withstand risks. The supporting financing and tax policies adopted by the authorities have not helped them overcome all their difficulties. Small and micro enterprises provide  percent of urban employment and contribute more than  percent in tax revenues. Therefore, increasing support for them is key to stimulating market vitality. The country must take more effective measures to solve their financing difficulties. It can stimulate endogenous driving forces of market players through reform and innovation, continue to improve the business environment, especially for small and micro enterprises, and promote their digital transformation.