Those trying to hide infection must be punished
2020-02-17 07:12
LUO JIECHINA DAILY    A yearold man who had been treated for the novel coronavirus was detained after leaving Yueyang Hospital in Shanghai on Saturday for suspected interference with the prevention and control of infectious diseases, because he had tried to conceal his disease, resulting in many doctors and nurses being quarantined. Certainly, the man was a victim of the infection in the first place, and thats why the hospital treated him. Yet by trying to conceal his illness he put others at risk and he is suspected of breaking the criminal law, and must therefore be held accountable for his actions. By keeping the medical workers in the dark, the man not only reduced his own chances of being effectively treated, but also exposed those trying to help him to unwarranted risks. Many doctors and nurses had to be quarantined, unavoidably aggravating the shortage of medical professionals and undermining the hospitals efforts to help others. Such cases in which those infected with the virus try to hide their condition have also been reported in many other parts of the country. It is necessary for the authorities to raise the peoples awareness of the necessity of taking the initiative to report their condition to local public health departments in a waitfornosecond manner, if they suspect they have the virus. This is a legal obligation of all citizens according to the epidemic control and prevention law. The authorities should also improve the transparency of the quarantine and treatment system to dispel fears about it. In the meantime, the public security department must take resolute actions to hold those responsible accountable so as to deter others and protect medical workers. It is to be hoped that people, including those far away from the hardhit regions, can realize that they are legally bound to play their part in the war against the virus. Those failing to do so not only undermine the efforts of the whole country, but also break the law.