Third round of testing to start in virushit Hebei cities
2021-01-19 16:52
A medical worker collects a throat swab from a resident in Nangong county, Xingtai, Hebei province on Jan , . PhotoXinhua    A third round of mass nucleic acid testing will start on Wednesday in Shijiazhuang and Xingtai, two major coronavirushit cities in Hebei province, and the tests will be completed within three days. During this period, closedoff management will continue, according to a press conference on Tuesday afternoon. Similar measures will be taken in Guan county in Langfang and Longyao county in Xingtai, where singledigit numbers of cases were reported. The three cases in Longyao are related to the epidemic in Shijiazhuang. The province identified five new COVID patients and an asymptomatic carrier, all locally transmitted, by  am on Tuesday, increasing its caseload of confirmed patients to  and asymptomatic to , Hebei vice governor Xu Jianpei said at the conference. Another  patients and  asymptomatic carriers had been discharged after recovery, and one has died, he said. Although the singleday increases of COVID patients have fallen, theres still the possibility of more related cases emerging in the next few days, given the law of development for infectious diseases and coronaviruss long incubation period, said Shi Jian, head of the Hebei Provincial Center for Disease Control and Preventions emergency management office. On Monday,  new local confirmed COVID cases and  asymptomatic carriers were identified, down from  on Sunday,  on Saturday and  on Friday. About  percent of confirmed cases in Hebei are from Shijiazhuangs Gaocheng district,  percent of which are from villages in Zengcun town. Among the patients,  have severe symptoms, and two in Hebei Chest Hospital had been treated with an ECMO machine, a device that functions as the heart and lungs for patients with organ failure. Huangzhuang Apartments, a new centralized quarantine facility being built to hold close contacts and secondary close contacts, will have  rooms completed and delivered by the end of Tuesday, while another , will be completed on Wednesday. Hebei currently has three highrisk areas for infections  Gaocheng district and Xinle city in Shijiazhuang and Nangong city in Xingtai, as well as  mediumrisk areas.