The secret to a prosperous ChinaAfrica relationship
2021-11-29 13:10
A Chinese agricultural expert second from right shows workers how to use a drone to spray herbicides over a rice farm in Mozambique. Thanks to Chinas technical support, yields at the Chinesebacked farm have increased significantly. LIN SHANCHUANXINHUA    China and Africa have stood together through times of adversity and success, setting a strong example for the building of a global community with a shared future. The th Ministerial Conference of the Forum on ChinaAfrica Cooperation FOCAC will convene despite disruptions caused by the COVID pandemic, showing the great significance that Africa and China attach to furthering their ties, as well as a deep mutual trust that will create more opportunities for the two traditional partners to collaborate. The FOCAC, since its inception in , has become an important platform for collective dialogue and an effective mechanism for pragmatic cooperation that has profoundly benefitted the Chinese and African peoples and reshaped international cooperation with Africa. After years of dedicated efforts, the tree of ChinaAfrica cooperation has flourished  it is tall and strong, and cannot be shaken by any force. The ChinaAfrica friendship is now in its prime. The secret to fruitful ChinaAfrica cooperation has been revealed by a white paper, titled China and Africa in the New Era A Partnership of Equals, released by Chinas State Council Information Office on Friday. The ChinaAfrica friendship, according to the paper, has been embodied by mutual political trust, rapidly expanding economic cooperation, growing social development cooperation, peopletopeople and cultural exchanges, and steadily expanding cooperation on peace and security. Economywise, statistics show China has been Africas largest trading partner for the  years since . ChinaAfrica trade accounted for more than  percent of Africas total external trade in . China has increased its imports of nonresource products, and offered zerotariff treatment to  percent of taxable items by the  leastdeveloped countries in Africa. By the end of , direct investment by Chinese companies in Africa had surpassed  billion U.S. dollars. The over , Chinese companies across the continent have directly and indirectly created millions of jobs while more than  percent of their employees are locals. When it comes to infrastructure, to say that Chinese companies involvement in infrastructure development is profoundly changing Africas landscape is no exaggeration. To date, almost all African countries with diplomatic ties with China have already signed agreements on cooperation under the Belt and Road Initiative. Projects implemented by Chinese companies accounted for . percent of all infrastructure projects in Africa in . Since the founding of FOCAC, Chinese companies have utilized various funds to help African countries build and upgrade more than , km of railways, nearly , km of highways, nearly , bridges and  ports, and , km of power transmission and distribution. They have also helped build an installed powergenerating capacity of  million kW, a communications backbone network of , km and a network service covering nearly  million user terminals, according to the white paper. Apart from the fruitful infrastructure cooperation, China has helped advance Africas industrialization and economic diversification through building economic and trade cooperation zones, special economic zones, industrial parks and science parks. China has also been sharing agricultural development experiences and technology with Africa and helping Africa build agricultural value chains and bolster trade. It has also helped Africa bridge the digital divide by expanding digital cooperation. Mutual support is prevalent in the new era of ChinaAfrica cooperation. From the devastating earthquake in southwest Chinas Sichuan Province in  to cyclone Idai that swept across Zimbabwe, Mozambique, and Malawi in , from the Ebola virus outbreak in West Africa in  to the ongoing COVID pandemic, China and Africa have always stood alongside each other in trying times. During the toughest times in Chinas fight against the COVID epidemic, African countries and regional organizations such as the African Union provided strong support to China. After COVID struck Africa, China immediately offered humanitarian assistance, including urgentlyneeded medical supplies and vaccines. Earlier this week, the main building of the Chinesefunded headquarters for the Africa Centers for Disease Control and Prevention was structurally complete. At the upcoming conference, China and Africa are looking forward to indepth discussions on postpandemic economic recovery, health, infrastructure development and other issues. The two sides are also expected to nurture new growth drivers such as ecommerce, building G networks, and greening the economy with a view to promoting highquality and sustainable common development. Looking to the future, the space for mutually beneficial cooperation will surely expand as the ChinaAfrica community with a shared future grows ever stronger.