The Communist Party of China and Human Rights ProtectionA Year Quest
2021-06-25 08:09
Editors Note The State Council Information Office of the Peoples Republic of China on Thursday released a white paper titled The Communist Party of China and Human Rights ProtectionA Year Quest. The full text followsForewordI. For Peoples Liberation and WellbeingII. The Principle of Respecting and Protecting Human Rights Embedded in GovernanceIII. Ensuring the Peoples Position as Masters of the CountryIV. Making Comprehensive Progress in Human RightsV. Protecting the Basic Rights of Citizens in Accordance with the LawVI. Advancing Human Rights Around the WorldVII. Adding Diversity to the Concept of Human RightsConclusionForewordThe year  marks the centenary of the Communist Party of China CPC. Over the past century, the CPC has invested a huge effort in human rights protection, adding significantly to global human rights progress.A hundred years ago, the CPC came into beingits mission to salvage the country and save the Chinese people at a perilous time of domestic upheaval and foreign aggression. This was an epochchanging moment. Under the leadership of the CPC, the Chinese people embarked on a new journey towards prosperity, national rejuvenation, and wellbeing.Over this period of one hundred years, the CPC has united and led the people in toppling the three mountains of imperialism, feudalism and bureaucratcapitalism, creating the Peoples Republic of China PRC, and completing the New Democratic Revolution and the Socialist Revolution. The political and institutional foundations were thereby laid down to ensure the rights and freedoms of the people. Through successes and setbacks, China has pioneered reform and opening up, set the goal of socialist modernization, and ushered in a new era of building socialism with Chinese characteristics. The Chinese nation has stood up, become better off, and grown in strength. Now, it is embarking on a new journey to build a modern socialist country in all respects.For a hundred years, the CPC has always put people first, applying the principle of universality of human rights in the context of the national conditions. It regards the rights to subsistence and development as the primary and basic human rights, and believes that living a life of contentment is the ultimate human right. It promotes the wellrounded development of the individual, and strives to give every person a stronger sense of gain, happiness and security. Its success in pioneering human rights in a socialist country is unique and readily apparent.For a hundred years, the CPC has committed itself to peaceful development and common progress. China is firm in its international stanceto safeguard world peace and seek progress through cooperation, ensuring human rights with the benefits deriving from development. It has been an active participant in matters of international human rights, providing a Chinese contribution to global human rights governance and progress, and working with other countries to forge a global community of shared future.I. For Peoples Liberation and Wellbeing. Human Rights Trampled after the Midth CenturyThe Chinese nation is a great nation boasting a civilization spanning five millennia. China once led the world in composite national strength over a long period of time. But beginning in the middle and latter half of the Qing Dynasty , and especially after the Opium War in , China plunged into stagnation due to a corrupt, incompetent government and ever growing Western aggression. It was eventually reduced to a semicolonial, semifeudal state where the people were enslaved and suffered immeasurably.Beginning in , the Western imperialist powers, through war and other aggressive means, forced the Chinese government into hundreds of unequal treaties, regulations and conventions, grabbing territory, demanding reparations and privileges, and engaging in a process of colonization and plunder throughout China. Western invasion and colonization shackled the Chinese people, trampling on their dignity and putting their very lives in jeopardy.It was a tragedy for the country and the people. Oppressed by imperialism, feudalism and bureaucratcapitalism, the Chinese people suffered from hunger and poverty and the nation from backwardness and subjugation.The subsistence crisis raged in all directions. The economy was in a shambles. Low agricultural productivity, land annexation, harsh taxes and levies, natural disasters, and frequent wars turned large numbers of small farmers and peasants into farm laborers for hire or homeless poor. Industry and commerce developed to a certain extent, but was small in scale, low in productivity and unbalanced in structure. Manipulated by foreign and domestic bureaucrat capital, it was impossible to sustain the nation or the people. Under a shattered economy, the people were destitute and struggled to survive. It is estimated that  percent of the population was constantly haunted by dire hunger or inadequate food supply, and that tens or even hundreds of thousands of people starved to death every year.China was also tortured by diseases and hindered by the lack of education among its people. Epidemics such as plague, smallpox and cholera swept across the country and recurred every year, taking a heavy toll on the populace due to the lack of health services. The average life expectancy in old China was only  years. When the PRC was founded in ,  percent of the  million population were illiterate, less than  percent of schoolage children were in elementary schools, and there were only , students receiving higher education. Commenting on the miseries of the people, Mao Zedong said, The poverty and lack of freedom among the Chinese people are on a scale seldom found. With the people struggling for survival, it was impossible to talk about any other rights.. National Salvation on the Shoulders of the CPCWith the nation under threat and the people in pain, many people of lofty ideals and insight devoted themselves to the cause of national salvationleading peasant uprisings, creating initiatives to learn from the West, attempting reformist experiments, and launching a bourgeois revolution. But none of these freed the Chinese from oppression and slavery. The mission of national independence and the liberation of the people fell to the CPC.In July , the First National Congress of the Communist Party of China announced the founding of the Party, heralding a new stage in the Chinese revolution. It reversed the tragic fate of the Chinese people and laid down the foundations for them to enjoy their basic rights. The first Marxists in China, including Chen Duxiu, Li Dazhao and Mao Zedong, already understood the close connection between liberation, independence and the peoples interests. They knew well that only through revolution could the proletariat and the working people establish and maintain their rights, and that only through revolution could China get back on its feet and its people emerge from poverty and humiliation.The CPC was a party of the proletariat from the very beginning. Through its programs, proposals, and declarations, it made its mission clear and its stance knownto save the nation and secure human rights for its people. The original aspiration and the mission of the Party is to seek happiness for the people of China and rejuvenation of the Chinese nation. It is also the root of its stance on human rights. The CPC, with its peoplecentered position, has won the support of the Chinese people, making it the spine of the Chinese revolution.. Human Rights Protection During the New Democratic RevolutionIn the New Democratic Revolution to liberate and free the people and make them masters of the country, the CPC always applied Marxist human rights theory to the Chinese context, pioneering a path of human rights predicated on the universality of human rights and one that is distinctively Chinese.In the Great Revolution , the CPC took on improving peoples lives and protecting their right to subsistence as key objectives. In the Agrarian Revolutionary War , the CPCled Chinese Soviet Government promulgated the Land Law, giving the peasants political rights as well as land to till, so that they could make a living. In the fullscale phase of the War of Resistance Against Japanese Aggression , the Party formulated a series of regulations and measures for human rights protection, and enacted tax and interest reduction policies in the ShaanxiGansuNingxia Border Region. In the War of Liberation , the Party emphasized protection of human rights and ensuring basic livelihoods for the people, formulated the Outline of the Land Law of China and carried out land reform among  million people in the liberated areas, distributing land among peasants and putting an end to feudal production relations. It organized production campaigns to ensure selfsufficiency, encouraged privatelyowned industrial and commercial businesses, and provided social relief, all to ensure the peoples wellbeing.Making the people masters of the country was a primary goal in ensuring human rights during the New Democratic Revolution. Universal suffrage was implemented in the CPCled Central Soviet Area and the ShaanxiGansuNingxia Border Region, and the longoppressed people finally had the right to participate in politics and have their voice heard. During the War Against Japanese Aggression, the base areas established democratic governments with CPC members, progressive nonCPC figures, and centrists each occupying one third of the official posts. These policies and systems greatly encouraged the people to take part in revolution and political administration.The legitimate rights and interests of women were protected. Following the guidelines of the CPC Central Committee on womens liberation and marriage reform, and the marriage laws and regulations enacted and applied to all the soviet areas, arranged and mercenary marriage was abolished, and keeping maids or concubines was forbidden. Monogamy was established along with freedom of marriage, and postnuptial property was regarded as community property. For the first time, women gained the freedom of their person and economic equality in marriage. With rising social status, women became more active in revolution and in the workplace.Culture, education, and health services flourished in the CPCled areas. In the Outline of the Constitution of the Chinese Soviet Republic promulgated in the Central Soviet Area, it was stipulated that the working masses enjoyed equal right to education. Schools were built and training sessions organized to help improve peoples educational levels. In the ShaanxiGansuNingxia Border Region the government set up night schools and newspaper reading groups to eliminate illiteracy, opened elementary and middle schools despite the difficult conditions, and founded the Lu Xun School of the Arts, the Yanan Academy of Natural Sciences, and other institutions of higher education and research.The Chinese Soviet Republic formed an epidemic prevention and control committee at the central level, and health departments offices were set up at the district, county and provincial levels. Hospitals were built for workers and peasants, as well as clinics for the poor and public health centers. The cohort of health workers was strengthened and mass campaigns were rolled out to prevent and control epidemics. All this significantly improved peoples health.. Human Rights Protection in the PRCThe founding of the PRC in  ushered in a new era for peoples rights. It put an end to the exploitation, oppression and slavery that had shackled the Chinese nation for a century, and signified the beginning of substantial progress in human rights in a socialist country under the leadership of the CPC.Since , human rights in China have undergone three stages of development.Stage  Beginning in , the Chinese people committed themselves to socialist revolution and economic development under CPC leadership, establishing the basic systems of socialism, completing the most extensive and profound process of social change in Chinese history, and promulgating the first socialist constitution. All these laid the political and institutional foundation for human rights in China.From a political perspective, the system of peoples democracy was established and consolidated, with democracy of the people and socialism as the basic principles. With the implementation of the system of peoples congresses, it was guaranteed that all rights of the state belonged to the people.From an economic perspective, the completion of the land reform triggered a burst of great creativity among the people. Socialist transformation was completed in agriculture, individual craft industries, and capitalist industry and commerce, and the basic socialist system was formed to ensure equal access to economic development and the sharing of economic gains.From a social perspective, the Marriage Law was promulgated, stipulating the free choice of spouses, the principle of monogamy, equal rights for men and women, and the protection of the lawful rights and interests of women and children. Efforts were made to promote education and health services, and medical and preventive care networks were established at every local levelvillage, township, county, city and province. Labor insurance was created and social relief was provided. The government stood firmly against ethnic oppression and discrimination, upheld equality among all ethnic groups, and introduced regional ethnic autonomy. In developing the legal framework, important laws were formulated and promulgated in line with the Constitution of the Peoples Republic of China to protect citizens basic rights.Stage  Beginning in , when reform and opening up was introduced, the CPC led the Chinese people on a path of socialism with Chinese characteristics, unleashing an immense wave of social development and productivity. Thanks to tremendous progress in human rights the people enjoyed better protection of their rights to subsistence and development and other basic rights. Reform and opening up is a great revolution on the part of the Chinese people under CPC leadership. The Party pursues development as its top priority in governance and as the key to solving the problems of China it strives to promote social productivity and improve human rights protection through development. During this stage the people enjoyed better lives and grew more active economically and socially. Under CPC leadership, China upheld the rule of law in all areas, and included in the Constitution as an important principle of national governance respect for and protection of human rights. Human rights progress was included in national development strategies and plans, the mechanisms for ensuring human rights in the context of Chinas realities were improved, and the system for ensuring human rights with Chinese characteristics began to take shape.Stage  Since the th CPC National Congress in , socialism with Chinese characteristics has entered a new era. China has completed the mission of eradicating absolute poverty as scheduled under the strong leadership of the Party Central Committee with Xi Jinping at the core. Decisive success has been achieved in the final stage of building a moderately prosperous society in all respects, and human rights protection has been brought to new heights. Upholding peoplecentered development, the CPC is grounding its efforts in the new development stage, applying the new development philosophy, and creating a new framework of development. Focusing on highquality development, it endeavors to meet the fundamental goal of satisfying the peoples growing desire for a better life. Implementing the Fivesphere Integrated Plan this refers to Chinas overall plan for building socialism with Chinese characteristics, that is, to promote coordinated progress in the economic, political, cultural, social and ecoenvironmental fields and the Fourpronged Comprehensive Strategy this refers to Chinas strategic plan for building socialism with Chinese characteristics, that is, to make comprehensive moves to complete a moderately prosperous society in all respects, to further reform, to advance the rule of law, and to strengthen Party selfgovernance, the Party has made sure that the people enjoy a greater sense of gain, happiness and security. As the Belt and Road Initiative builds momentum, the concept of a global community of shared future has been widely recognized.II. The Principle of Respecting and Protecting Human Rights Embedded in Governance. In the Constitution as a Guiding PrincipleAs the fundamental law of a country, the Constitution is a written guarantee of the rights of citizens. Under the leadership of the CPC, China has established a Chinese socialist legal system with the Constitution at the core, thus laying a solid legal foundation for ensuring human rights.In September , the First Session of the First National Peoples Congress NPC adopted the Constitution of the PRC, which declared that all power in the country belongs to the people. It provided a wide range of rights and freedom that citizens enjoy in political, economic, social, cultural, personal and other respects. In December , the Fifth Session of the Fifth NPC adopted the current Constitution of the PRC, in which The Fundamental Rights and Duties of Citizens was moved forward and made second only to Chapter I, General Principles. This adjustment highlighted the importance of citizens rights. Meanwhile, this Constitution also expanded the range of rights under protection. Later, the NPC adopted five amendments to the Constitution in , , ,  and , to better protect human rights. These involved the basic economic system, distribution system, protection of citizens private property, and the social security system.The amendment adopted at the Second Session of the th NPC, held in March , added the line The state respects and safeguards human rights into the Constitution. Since then, respecting and protecting human rights has been a basic principle of the system of socialist rule of law with Chinese characteristics and a binding rule of conduct and a legal obligation of all state organs, armed forces, political parties, social organizations, enterprises and public institutions. No laws, regulations, rules and normative documents can be in conflict with the principle, and accountability must be enforced on all acts that violate it.The CPC leads the people in fully and strictly enforcing the Constitution and takes the lead in fulfilling the constitutional responsibility of respecting and protecting human rights. This has been achieved through improving laws, regulations and institutional systems and developing various undertakings of the state. China has established mechanisms best suited to its political systems and national conditions for enforcing the Constitution and the oversight thereof. It has set up the NPC Constitution and Law Committee to carry out constitutional review, so as to better uphold the authority of the Constitution and ensure that the provisions of the Constitution are observed.. In State Governance as a PhilosophyServing the people wholeheartedly is the fundamental purpose of the CPC. The Party adheres to a peoplecentered philosophy of development, exercises power for the people, and ensures that development is for the people and by the people and that its benefits are shared by the people. It embodies the principle of respecting and protecting human rights in its governance and selfimprovement.At the th CPC National Congress held in , the report to the congress included for the first time the following expression ensuring that the people enjoy extensive rights and freedom endowed by law, and respecting and guaranteeing human rights.The th CPC National Congress held in  reiterated that human rights are respected and guaranteed, and included the following words in the goals of building a moderately prosperous society in all respects The political, economic and cultural rights and interests of the people will be respected and guaranteed in real earnest and promoting the allround development of people. The report to the th CPC National Congress held in  read that We must respect and guarantee human rights, and ensure the equal right to participation and development for all members of society in accordance with the law, and Itthe CPC respects and safeguards human rights was formally added into the CPC Constitution.Since the th CPC National Congress held in , to further reform on all fronts and accelerate the modernization of Chinas governance system and capacity, the CPC has attached greater importance to improving the systems and mechanisms for respecting and protecting human rights. At the th CPC National Congress, the principle that human rights should be fully respected and protected was included in the report to the congress and listed as one of the key strategic goals of building a moderately prosperous society and furthering reform and opening up in an allround way. In , the Fourth Plenary Session of the th CPC Central Committee adopted the Resolution of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China on Major Issues Concerning Comprehensively Advancing the Rule of Law. The resolution emphasized the need to provide stronger judicial protection of human rights and to strengthen awareness throughout the whole of society about the need to respect and safeguard human rights. It stipulated ways to ensure that citizens rights are protected by the law enhancing judicial protection of human rights and legislation in key areas, protecting citizens rights in accordance with the law, establishing a legal system featuring equal rights, equal opportunities and fair rules for all, ensuring the inviolability of citizens rights including personal rights, property rights and basic political rights, and making sure that citizens enjoy rights in economic, cultural, social and all other respects. The Fifth Plenary Session of the th CPC Central Committee in  made it clear that human rights should be fully protected is a major goal of promoting the rule of law during the entire th Fiveyear Plan period.In , the report to the th CPC National Congress stated the principal contradiction facing Chinese society in the new era is that between unbalanced and inadequate development and the peoples evergrowing needs for a better life. We must therefore continue commitment to our peoplecentered philosophy of development, and work to promote wellrounded human development and common prosperity for everyone.The report drew a blueprint for future progress in Chinas human rights From  to , on the basis of completing the building of a moderately prosperous society in all respects, the rights of the people to participate and to develop as equals will be adequately protected from  to the middle of the st century, building on having achieved basic modernization, we will develop China into a great modern socialist country that is prosperous, strong, democratic, culturally advanced, harmonious, and beautiful common prosperity for everyone will be largely achieved the Chinese people will enjoy happier, safer, and healthier lives we will strengthen legal protection for human rights to ensure that the people enjoy extensive rights and freedoms as prescribed by law.In , the Fourth Plenary Session of the th CPC Central Committee pointed out that improving the wellbeing of the people and promoting wellrounded human development are essential to the Partys commitment to serving the public good and exercising power in the interests of the people. In , the proposal of the CPC Central Committee on formulating the th Fiveyear Plan for economic and social development and the longrange objectives through the year  was adopted at the Fifth Plenary Session of the th CPC Central Committee. The proposal set higher goals for Chinas development, which include promoting wellrounded human development and allround social advancement and promoting comprehensive progress in human rights.. In National Development Plans for Its RealizationFrom  to , China has formulated  plans for national economic and social development, providing for the countrys development in economic, social, cultural, environmental and other respects.In accordance with the proposal adopted at the Fifth Plenary Session of the th CPC Central Committee, the Fourth Session of the th NPC held in March  deliberated and adopted the Outline of the th FiveYear Plan  for National Economic and Social Development and the LongRange Objectives Through the Year  of the PRC. The outline set forth specific objectives, tasks, policies and measures for Chinas development in economic, political, cultural, social, ecological and other fields in the next five years and  years. In the outline, it was emphasized that we must pursue peoplecentered development, adopt a new vision for development, and ensure the principal status of the people we must move steadily toward common prosperity, safeguard the fundamental interests of the people, and unleash their enthusiasm, initiative and creativity we must promote social equity and justice, improve the wellbeing of the people, and realize the peoples aspiration for a better life. This approach to development embodies the principle of respecting and protecting human rights.Protecting peoples economic, social and cultural rights, especially their rights to employment, basic living, social security, health, education, culture, environment, property and other services, is essential to the rights of all to life and development. The state makes constant progress in protecting citizens basic rights by formulating outlines and plans for the development of various undertakings. In the past  years alone, the Chinese government formulated dozens of policy documents concerning peoples rights to subsistence and development in many fields. These include the Outline of DevelopmentDriven Poverty Alleviation in Rural Areas , the Outline of Healthy China , the Outline of National Medium and LongTerm Program for Education Reform and Development , the Outline of the Development of Human Resources and Social Security Undertakings During the th FiveYear Plan Period, the Outline of Chinas Environmental Protection, the Program for Developing Ethnic Minority Areas and Ethnic Groups with Small Populations During the th FiveYear Plan Period, the Program for the Development of Women in China , the Program for the Development of Children in China , the Plan for the Development of Chinas OldAge Programs and ElderlyCare System, the Outline for the Development of People with Disabilities During the th FiveYear Plan Period, and the Rural Revitalization Strategic Plan . China also worked out a series of institutions and measures to protect citizens civil and political rights, particularly citizens personal rights, their rights to fair trial, freedom of religion, the rights to be informed, to be engaged and to be heard, and the right to oversee.China actively responds to the initiatives of the international community. Since , it has worked out three national human rights action plans, which is quite unusual among countries of the world. Currently, the work has begun to produce the fourththe National Human Rights Action Plan . China has integrated its national human rights action plans with its national development plans.III. Ensuring the Peoples Position as Masters of the CountrySince the founding of the PRC in , the CPC has established systems that respect Chinas actual conditions and ensure the peoples principal status as masters of the country. The main ones are peoples congresses, which form the fundamental political system of China, CPCled multiparty cooperation and political consultation, regional ethnic autonomy, and grassroots selfgovernance. These systems have laid a firm institutional foundation for protecting the fundamental interests of the people.. Ensuring Human Rights Through the Fundamental Political SystemThe system of peoples congresses is Chinas fundamental political system. The essence of the system is to ensure that all power in the country belongs to the people and that the people participate in the management of state affairs and exercise power as masters of the country through the peoples congresses.The system of peoples congresses ensures the rights of the people as the masters of the country. First, the National Peoples Congress NPC is the highest state organ of power. The NPC and the local peoples congresses at all levels are created through democratic election they are responsible to the people and subject to their oversight. The right to vote and stand for election is a basic right. Constituencies and organizations have the power to elect deputies and to remove them from office in accordance with procedures prescribed by law.Second, in strict accordance with the principle of democratic centralism, peoples congresses and their standing committees exercise state power, decide on matters collectively, and represent the will and the fundamental interests of the people. Each NPC and local peoples congress has a term of five years. An NPC session is held once every year, while each local peoples congress convenes at least once every year.Third, state power is exercised through peoples congresses. All administrative, supervisory, judicial and prosecuting organs of the state are created by the peoples congresses, answer to them, and are subject to their oversight.Fourth, the NPC and its Standing Committee exercise the legislative power of the state. Amendments to the Constitution must be adopted by a vote of at least twothirds of NPC deputies, while laws and other bills shall be adopted by a majority vote of NPC deputies or of members of the NPC Standing Committee.As of April , there are more than . million deputies to peoples congresses at all levels. The deputies are broadly representative of all ethnic groups, sectors, social strata and political parties. Among them are a considerable number of deputies who are workers or peasants. Among the deputies to the th NPC, workers and peasants account for . percent. To ensure that state power is truly in the hands of the people, deputies must represent the interests and will of the people when performing their duties. Deputies are entitled to submit, examine and vote on bills and proposals. The statements and votes of deputies at meetings of peoples congresses are protected by the law.The system of peoples congresses is a unique political structure created by the people of China. It embodies the nature of the PRC as a socialist country and ensures that the Chinese people are the masters of the country. Through this system, the peoples of all ethnic groups hold the destiny of China and the nation firmly in their own hands.. Ensuring Human Rights Through the Political Party SystemThe political party system of China involves multiparty cooperation and political consultation under the leadership of the CPC. It is different from the twoparty or multiparty systems of Western countries and the oneparty systems of some other countries. In China, in addition to the governing CPC, there are eight other political parties. These are not opposition parties. They maintain good relations with the CPC, accepting the latters leadership and cooperating fully with it they are participants in governance under the framework of socialism with Chinese characteristics. This framework of multiparty cooperation and participation under CPC leadership and governance is the defining feature of Chinas political party system. This system is a new model that has grown out of the soil of China. It was established and developed by the CPC, other political parties and prominent individuals without party affiliation nonaffiliates over the long period of Chinas revolution, economic development and reform. It was a historical necessity it represents great ingenuity it possesses enormous st