Thankful recovered COVID patient gives plasma
2020-08-25 08:50
Tang Shulin is awarded certificates for donating blood plasma after recovering from COVID in Wuhan, Hubei province, earlier this month. CHINA DAILY    An unusually resilient immune response and a heart of gold have enabled Tang Shulin, who has recovered from the COVID infection, to accomplish what few people in the world are capable ofdonating blood plasma  times in the past six months. The last time he did so was on Aug , when Tang, a resident of Wuhan, Hubei province, walked into the citys blood center to give  milliliters of convalescent plasma. Infusions of blood plasma from recovered COVID patients like Tang are believed to be a promising therapy to treat those still battling the disease. Tang, , visited the facility as a firsttime convalescent plasma donor on Feb , only  days after he recovered from the virus and was discharged from the hospital. At the time, I still felt a bit uncomfortable while walking fast, but knowing that my blood plasma would aid treatment and that making donations would not affect the donors health, I just did what my heart told me, he said. Tang is more than familiar with the blood collection procedure. Since , he has donated blood about  times and managed to persuade his wife to become a regular donor. Having confronted the cruelty of a lifethreatening virus facetoface and having witnessed the outpouring of benevolence to Wuhan strengthened his conviction to lend a helping hand. In the past, I donated blood out of a simple desire to do a good deed. Now, I also want to show gratitude and reciprocate all the kindness I received during the epidemic, he said. Tang recalled that when he was admitted into the hospital in Wuhans Huangpi district in late January, he had difficulty breathing and was delirious with a high fever. His said the first few days at the hospital were a blur, but he remembered a female medical worker saying to him, you will get better, we will help you. My eyes teared up the moment I heard those words, Tang said. To this day, I do not know who said that, but I believe it was her comfort that pumped enormous strength into me at a vulnerable moment and motivated me to follow the advice of doctors, eat as much as I could and take medication. Flashes and glimpses of selfless devotion shining through medical workers left an indelible mark on Tang. I was taken good care of at the hospital and saw firsthand how the whole country was mobilized to assist Wuhan, he said. I am a very sentimental person, and soon I made up my mind to keep donating blood plasma as long as I am eligible. For some inexplicable reason and a touch of serendipity, Tangs potential to give qualified convalescent plasma proved to be far above the average. Available research shows that antibodies generated in people who recovered from COVID usually last three months. Tangs immune system is able to retain a sufficient amount of antibodies for a prolonged period, said Chen Hanwei, head of the Wuhan Blood Centers donation department. Tang is outstanding for both his kindness and his unique immunity, she said. According to Chen, the center had collected , portions of blood plasma from COVID recovered patients, totaling , milliliters. About onequarter of them had been sent to other parts of China to assist local patients. There is a possibility of the virus rebounding in the fall and winter, and blood plasma will play an indispensable role in preventing the condition from worsening in severe cases, she said. Tang also called for more recovered patients to join him. When you know you can help others, just do it, he said. In the meantime, we need to spread more awareness about the significance of maintaining blood stocks amid an emergency and dispel the rumor that donating blood is harmful to health.