Test kit issue of ICMR can be resolved with good will as priority attached to quality of medical exports
2020-04-28 13:40
The novel coronavirus testing kit produced by Guangzhou Wondfo Biotech Co Ltd, Photo provided to chinadaily.com.cn    China not only attaches importance to the quality of medical exports, but also takes concrete actions to sincerely help and support India in the fight against COVID, said a spokesperson from the Chinese Embassy in India. Regarding the announcement of the Indian Council of Medical Research to stop using rapid antibody test kits from two Chinese companies, Counselor Ji Rong said, We hope the Indian side could respect Chinas goodwill and sincerity, strengthen communication timely with relevant Chinese companies based on facts, and resolve it reasonably and properly. Both companies are concerned. In their statement, they said the kits have been exported to and well recognized in many countries in Europe, Asia and Latin America. The same kits have been validated and approved by ICMR through National Institute of Virology NIV, Pune and considered as satisfactory products, as well meeting the quality standards of China and exported countries. We have also learned that there are strict requirements for the storage, transportation and use of COVID antibody rapid test kits, Ji said. Any operation which is not carried out by professionals in accordance with the product specifications will lead to the testing accuracy variations. ICMR also made it clear that rapid antibody test kits should only be used for surveillance purposes instead of replacing RTPCR test to diagnose and confirm the cases, and Indian states are advised to strictly abide by the methods and purpose of the usage according to ICMRs clear instructions. It is unfair and irresponsible for certain individuals to label Chinese products as faulty and look at issues with preemptive prejudice, Ji added. China and India have maintained close communication and cooperation on epidemic prevention and control. Following Indias pandemic situation, China has shared its experiences in prevention, control and treatment, and donated medical materials to India. We will continue to support Indias efforts in fighting COVID, strengthen medical and health cooperation, and jointly work with India to overcome the difficulties at an early date, so as to safeguard the safety and health of our peoples as well as global and regional public health security, Ji said.