Telemedicine expanded to rural areas
2020-11-11 09:12
SHI YUCHINA DAILY    Nation to bridge healthcare gaps between cities and countryside Measures have been unveiled to bolster the nations telemedicine network to improve epidemic prevention measures at the grassroots and raise access to healthcare in lessdeveloped areas. A policy document, issued by the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology and the National Health Commission on Nov , said the level of internet coverage at grassroots healthcare institutions will be raised by expanding the scale of broadband services and G networks in remote and impoverished areas. The coverage of G networks will be expanded to more healthcare institutions to offer better internet connectivity. The blueprint is the central governments latest move to promote telemedicine and bridge the urbanrural healthcare gap. Last year, Chinas telemedicine network saw . million patient visits, and more than , medical institutions nationwide were connected to the network, according to the NHC. The document is a key step toward the establishment of an ideal telemedicine system in China, said Cui Yong, vicepresident of the ChinaJapan Friendship Hospital in Beijing and chairman of an expert panel at the department of dermatology at the National Telemedicine and Connected Health Center. He noted that the disparity in healthcare between hospitals in firstand secondtier cities and those at the grassroots has seen people flowing to big cities, leaving small hospitals with fewer patients. Cui added that the gap in the level of medical services between hospitals in different parts of the country could be reduced by telemedicine, which offers remote clinical services and exchanges between practitioners. One of the major challenges facing the telemedicine system is a lack of application of new technologies, such as G and artificial intelligence, with technological levels also varying between hospitals. Those factors are the driving forces behind the document, he said. He highlighted the need for stronger guidance from the central government and the rolling out of more support policies to integrate telemedicine with the medical insurance system and cuttingedge technologies. Meanwhile, as hospitals have developed a range of systems for telemedicine, it is important for authorities to push forward the restructuring and unification of such systems to boost connectivity between hospitals and improve efficiency, he said. A nationally unified telemedicine system, a key step toward making the system more efficient and diagnoses more accurate, will help raise the level of trust and acceptance among patients, he added. Cui gave the example of the ChinaJapan Friendship Hospital, which undertakes functions for the National Telemedicine and Connected Health Center. It provided longdistance diagnoses for severe COVID cases in Wuhan, capital of Hubei province, earlier this year and played a key role in patients treatment and recovery. The document also pledged to fully utilize newgeneration information technology to improve access to healthcare in poor areas and help impoverished groups.