Telecom fraud crackdown successful
2020-07-29 09:33
PhotoSipa    Judicial organs in China have seen success in the crackdown against telecom and internet fraud in the first half of this year. Police in China cracked , telecom and internet fraud cases and arrested , suspects in that time, yearonyear growth of . percent and . percent respectively, the Ministry of Public Security said on Tuesday. Fraud through fake loans, parttime jobs, investment, online gambling, as well as impersonations of customer service and law enforcement officers accounted for over  percent of the cases, according to the ministry. Police nationwide also uncovered , fraud cases related to the COVID epidemic and arrested , suspects. Currently, the proportion of online loan scams has dropped from  percent at the beginning of the year to  percent, said Liu Zhongyi, director of the Criminal Investigation Bureau of the ministry. The public security organs have also strengthened technical countermeasures, intercepting about  million fraudulent phone calls and blocking , fraudulent domain name websites, preventing the public from losing . billion yuan . billion, Liu said. Efforts were made to implement early warning and dissuasive measures, and the antifraud warning number was opened for the public to improve the efficiency and success rate of such warnings, which have prevented . million people from being cheated. In response to the fact that some telecom and internet fraud groups are located overseas, Liu said the public security organs will innovate using legal means of enforcement and strengthen international cooperation to arrest criminals abroad. Nationwide, , people were prosecuted for fraud in the first half of this year, up  percent yearonyear. Among them, , people were prosecuted for telecom and internet fraud, up . percent, according to a statement released by the Peoples Supreme Procuratorate on Sunday. In particular, the number of fraud cases accounts for . percent of the total number of crimes impeding prevention and control of the COVID epidemic, it said. Fraud schemes have rapidly shifted to the internet, and new technologies such as artificial intelligence, machine learning and big data analysis have been applied to carry out all aspects of the crime. Telecom and internet fraud have formed industrial chains and criminal interest unions, interweaving with other illegal activities, it said. Prosecutors will emphasize the core role of electronic data in uncovering facts and step up efforts to strengthen litigation, including the examination of arrests and prosecution, and urge authorities to recover losses.