Telecom carriers to ramp up work on G base stations
2020-03-03 07:35
A technician of China Telecom installs a G base station in Shanghai. Photo by Zhang HengweiChina News Service    Chinas telecom carriers have confirmed plans to build at least , G base stations this year, adding that the ongoing novel coronavirus outbreak would not disrupt their commitment to quickly roll out the superfast wireless technology. China Unicom and China Telecom, respectively the nations secondand thirdlargest telecom operator, said they would join hands to build , G base stations in the first three quarters of this year, finishing the yearend target in advance. Specifically, in the first half of this year, they will build , G base stations in total, which can cover  cities with G signals. In the meantime, China Mobile, the nations biggest telecom carrier by mobile subscribers, said it will pour in resources to achieve the construction target of , G base stations by the end of this year. The company has initiated the purchase plan for its secondphase G project. The new player, China Broadcasting Network Corp, which was granted the license for commercial use of G in June last year, has not officially disclosed its construction plans, but some analysts estimated that it would build more than , G base stations this year. Their comments came after the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology, the nations top industry regulator, convened a meeting in February to underline that more efforts are needed to resume production in the telecommunication industry. The ministry called for concerted efforts in promoting the development of G. As a new type of infrastructure, G can help boost economic growth. The ministry has asked telecom enterprises to assess the timely impact of the epidemic, and formulate and optimize the G network construction plans accordingly. More efforts are needed to effectively play the positive role of G construction in stabilizing investment and promoting the development of the overall industrial chain, the ministry said. Currently, G is already playing an active part in containing the novel coronavirus outbreak. The superfast wireless communication technology has ensured quality and stable mobile services for hospitals, emergency command centers, railway stations and bus terminals. It is also the foundation for robots, remote work, big data analysis and artificial intelligenceenabled bodytemperature measurement, as companies and people are working hard to contain the epidemic while resuming work at the same time. For instance, it took Chinas three major telecommunications operatorsChina Mobile, China Telecom and China Unicomjust three days to complete the construction of the communication network at Huoshenshan Hospital in Wuhan, capital of Hubei province and the epicenter of the epidemic. Still, the epidemic has caused shortterm impact on G rollout in some provinces. Gansu, Jiangxi, Anhui and other regions had said that they would delay the construction of G to some extent. The restrictions on crossregion transportation have also hampered the shipment of telecom gear. The ministry has asked local telecom authorities to communicate with local governments so that more efforts can be made to solve the problems faced by telecom carriers while building G base stations, such as how to balance construction rhythm with epidemicprevention measures. As economic activities have been resuming amid the novel coronavirus epidemic, construction of G telecommunications infrastructure is being accelerated in South Chinas Guangdong province. The plan is to build , G base stations this year to bring the total in the province to ,, said Su Shaolin, director of the Guangdong Provincial Communications Administration, at a media conference in Guangzhou last week. The goal is to realize full coverage in the cities of Guangzhou and Shenzhen, and pursue continuous coverage in central areas of cities in the Pearl River Delta, and coverage in all prefecturelevel cities in the province, he said. Yang Guang, an analyst at Strategy Analytics, said it is inevitable that the epidemic will slow the construction of G networks in some cities. But the government will roll out measures after the epidemic to make up for the delay. According to him, G is one of the key areas for infrastructure spending, which can fuel economic growth. Also, the epidemic will likely spur the adoption of G in more industries from a midto longterm perspective. Amid the outbreak, healthcare, home entertainment, public security, remote work and online education sectors are relying heavily on G networks. Chen Fengwei, an employee at China Unicom, said the industries that are directly involved in epidemic prevention, including medical care, logistics, robotics and security, will see a surge in demand for G networks.