Teachers performance during epidemic to count
2020-02-18 09:10
Online teaching, tutoring and correcting homework will be counted as part of the workload of teachers during the novel coronavirus pneumonia epidemic and be included in performance appraisals, the Ministry of Education said in a notice published on Friday. Photo provided to China Daily    A number of ministrylevel departments, including those responsible for education, customs, and human resources and social security, have responded recently to issues of public concern. Ministry notice outlines teachers responsibilities Online teaching, tutoring and correcting homework will be counted as part of the workload of teachers during the novel coronavirus pneumonia epidemic and be included in performance appraisals, the Ministry of Education said in a notice published on Friday. It said local education authorities and schools should arrange for teachers to carry out online teaching according to their own conditions. The epidemic has seen China postpone the start of the spring school semester. The return of teachers to schools should be arranged according to the need for epidemic prevention and control, and teachers should not attend gatherings such as concentrated offline training or conventions, it said. The notice also said rewards and recognition for teachers making outstanding contributions on the front line of epidemic prevention should be boosted. Authorities ensure supply of labor for key industries Local authorities have taken multiple measures to ensure the supply of labor for companies producing urgently needed goods and materials, the Ministry of Human Resources and Social Security said on Friday. The demand for labor by most companies that had resumed production had been satisfied, it said in a statement. Local human resources departments had made contact with enterprises to help coordinate their use of workers and solve related problems. In Tianjin and Guangdong province, the recruitment of local unemployed people and rural workers had been organized to support the resumption of production in priority companies. Policies had been implemented to help reduce companies labor costs during the Spring Festival holiday and recruitment agencies had been encouraged to provide services for companies, it said. The ministry said coordinated services covering transportation and the prevention of novel coronavirus pneumonia were helping people employed in other provinces return to work.