TCM soup can help cut COVID death rate of patients in half, study shows
2021-05-10 09:21
Pharmacists dispense medicines according to   Qingfei Paidu Soup prescriptions at Anhui University of Chinese Medicine on Feb , . PhotoXinhua    Qingfei paidu soup, a widely used traditional Chinese medicine to treat COVID infections, can help reduce the rate of death among hospitalized patients by half, a recent study has shown. The study examines more than , COVID cases that received treatment at  hospitals in Hubei provincethe hardesthit region during the epidemicfrom January to May last year, with nearly  percent of them having taken qingfei paidu as part of their therapies. Results suggest that the mortality rate for those undergoing the TCM treatment stands at . percent, while the rate for other patients is . percent. The study, led by researchers from Fuwai Hospital of the Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences  Peking Union Medical College, concluded that the use of qingfei paidu is associated with a  percent reduction of mortality in hospitalized COVID patients, without amplifying the risk of developing acute liver or kidney injuries. It was first published on preprint website MedRxiv.org in late December. On March , it was released on Phytomedicine, a peerreviewed journal. Li Jing, head of the research team, said based on the national diagnosis and treatment guideline for COVID diseases, qingfei paidu is the only prescription that is recommended for treating all patients ranging from mild to critical cases. The extensive delivery of TCM medication in hospitalized patients during the outbreak had created a sound base for our research because when appraising clinical effectiveness of a certain drug, it is crucial to start by collecting and analyzing from a large enough number of cases, she said. Qingfei paidu is a concoction that includes dozens of TCM herbs and roots, including ephedra, licorice root and bitter almond. The initial version of the prescription is believed to have originated during the Eastern Han Dynasty . Zhang Boli, president of the Tianjin University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, said during an earlier interview that preliminary studies show the therapy mainly works on lungs while offering protection for some other organs against the virus. It can also stem the viruss replication, Zhang said. According to the National Administration of Traditional Chinese Medicine, previous studies have already attested to the herbal prescriptions efficacy in preventing mild and moderate cases from worsening into severe infections, but evidence of its role in lowering the death rate was lacking. The study is by far the largest clinical research on qingfei paidu and its findings have provided potent evidence for proving its marked efficacy in saving the lives of COVID patients, the administration said. As of now, there is no approved specific treatment for COVID patients. During the fight against the epidemic,  percent of confirmed patients had undergone TCM therapies, with the efficacy rate in Hubei reaching  percent, according to a white paper released in June. Li said the new study is retrospective and based on realworld cases. If a randomized, doubleblind, placebocontrolled clinical study can be conducted in the future, the TCM drugs clinical efficacy can be further verified, and its global application is expected to expand, she added.