Xinjiang, Dalian discharge more COVID patients
2020-08-05 09:28
A patient is discharged from Dalian No  Peoples Hospital in Dalian, Liaoning province, on Aug , . She is among the three asymptomatic novel coronavirus cases discharged on the day, the first ones to recover since a cluster of cases broke out on July . Photo by Lyu WenzhengFor China Daily    Xinjiang Uygur autonomous region and Dalian, Liaoning province, both recorded their largest number of daily patients discharged from hospital on Monday, showing the effectiveness of their prevention and treatment of COVID infections. Cui Yan, director of the regions Center for Disease Control and Prevention, said  people who had recovered were discharged on Monday, bringing the total number of discharged to  since July . In addition to the largest number of discharges, officials in Urumqi, the regions capital, indicated during a virus control and prevention conference on Tuesday that the treatment cycle of the recently discharged had been shortened. According to Lu Chenvicepresident of the regions No  Peoples Hospital, a designated hospital specializing in contagious diseasestheir cycles were shortened not only because medical workers had gained more treatment experience during the outbreak, but also because of the effective measures taken by the hospital. The measures, such as the establishment of an evaluation and consultation system for experts, integration of the best medical resources in the region and introduction of advanced medical equipment, are improving treatment efficiency, Lu said. Epidemiological investigations of the locally transmitted COVID cases in Xinjiang have been underway since the local outbreak began on July . During the conference on Tuesday, Cui said the recent rebound of COVID cases in Xinjiang comes from the same source. After genetic sequencing on previously confirmed cases, we found the outbreak was caused by exposure to the same source of infection, Cui said. Cui said as the outbreak is associated with a group gathering in Urumqi, . percent of confirmed cases were detected in the city, and the remaining cases in other places are related to the capital. We also found that confirmed cases have been declining after reaching their peak at the end of July, and most confirmed cases are not severe, she added. The city reported  locally transmitted infections and nine asymptomatic cases on Monday, bringing the total figure of confirmed cases to  and asymptomatic cases to  since the emergence of the outbreak on July . In the northeastern port city of Dalian, three asymptomatic coronavirus carriers were discharged from the hospital on Tuesdaythe first group with or without symptoms released since the city identified its first new confirmed case on July . Dalian confirmed two new locally transmitted cases on Monday. The citys total number of confirmed cases with symptoms climbed to , and asymptomatic cases under medical observation dropped to , including the above three cases, Zhao Lian, deputy director of the Dalian Health Commission, said at a news conference on Tuesday morning. The city has completed the first round of its massive coronavirus testing program in both urban and rural areas, and people in highrisk areas began getting a third round of tests on Monday, Zhao said. Tang Yi, director of Dalians civil affairs bureau, said that as of  pm on Monday,  residential compounds had been locked down. The closed compounds are in good order, he said. Tang said that relevant districts, based on actual conditions, have made plans and solutions to provide a diverse array of services to residents, especially those that need special services to ensure peoples livelihoods during epidemic prevention and control. Mao Weihua contributed to this story.