Tanzanian ambassador grateful for Chinas assistance
2020-05-06 08:23
Tanzanian Ambassador to China Mbelwa Kairuki    Chinese assistance to help Tanzania combat COVID is timely and useful, and the African country will continue to cooperate with Beijing in the virus fight at the bilateral and multilateral levels, Tanzanian Ambassador to China Mbelwa Kairuki recently said in a written interview with China Daily. Given the soaring global demand for medical supplies and the capacity of Tanzanias health system, the delivery of personal protective equipment and ventilators from China is highly appreciated, he said. More medical aid from the Chinese government, the Jack Ma Foundation and the Alibaba Foundation is in process, Kairuki said. There had been  confirmed cases of COVID with  deaths in Tanzania as of Monday, according to the World Health Organization. In Tanzania as well as in many other developing countries that have limited medical resources, the exchange of experience between Chinese and Tanzanian doctors will enable the country to build its capacity to treat patients, the ambassador said. The main lessons from Chinas experience in combating COVID, he said, are found in the areas of leadership, science and peoples compliance. According to the ambassador, China took a series of control measures that enabled the nation to realize some initial achievements that were important in containing the pandemic. Many countries have learned from Chinas experience, he said. China organized two videoconferences with over  African countries including Tanzania in March and April to share its knowledge on epidemic prevention and control, clinical diagnosis and treatment, test methods, border quarantine and risk assessment. Additional communication about fighting the virus is expected in the future. Kairuki said COVID is a global problem and requires the WHO to unite concerted global efforts to address the virus. He said he is concerned to see some countries choosing to opt out of participation with the WHO at this critical juncture, but found it heartening to learn that China and other major powers remain undistracted and are moving in to fill the gap. He commended Chinas role in the WHOs Global Strategic Preparedness and Response Plan, saying it has demonstrated the countys fitness for a global leadership role.