Taiwan blocked from WHA because world supports oneChina principle, official says
2021-05-25 16:10
Zhu Fenglian, a spokesperson for the State Council Taiwan Affairs Office. PhotoXinhua    Taiwans exclusion from the World Health Assembly this year shows that the oneChina principle is the consensus of the international community, a spokeswoman for the State Councils Taiwan Affairs Office said on Tuesday. The WHA, the highest decisionmaking body of the World Health Organization, refused to include a proposal on Taiwans participation in its agenda that kicked off on Monday.       It shows that there is no path in the pursuit of Taiwan independence, and hyping Taiwanrelated issues at the WHO is unpopular, said Zhu Fenglian, the spokeswoman. From  to , Taiwan participated in the WHA as an observer under the name Chinese Taipei. However, the island has been prohibited from the assembly since  after the independenceleaning Democratic Progressive Party took office in May . Zhu said that the political basis for Taiwans participation in the WHA doesnt exist since the DPP has refused to recognize the  Consensus, which embodies the oneChina principle, and has stubbornly insisted on the separatist position of Taiwan independence. Despite this, the mainland has promoted health exchanges and cooperation between the two sides and has adopted a number of measures to make proper arrangements for Taiwans participation in global health affairs under the oneChina principle, according to Zhu. She said that Taiwan has effective access to information and aid regarding COVID epidemic prevention and control measures. The mainland has shared epidemic information with Taiwan  times and has agreed to allow health experts from the island to participate in WHO technical activities  times since the outbreak, Zhu said. The mainland has always attached great importance to the health and wellbeing of Taiwan compatriots, she added.       The mainland is willing to arrange a prompt purchase of COVID vaccines for Taiwan from the mainland and send epidemic prevention and control experts to Taiwan to share their experiences and provide consultations, she said. People on the island recently urged the DPP administration to buy mainland vaccines to cope with shortages amid the worsening epidemic situation in Taiwan. The island has recorded more than  newly confirmed cases for  consecutive days, with  cases on Monday, the islands health authority said. Zhu said the claim by the DPP that there is a gap in global antiepidemic efforts if Taiwan is not able to participate in the WHA is a political lie and an excuse it is using to seek independence. She urged DPP authorities not to go further down the wrong path. Any attempt to challenge the oneChina principle is bound to end in failure, Zhu said.