Student takes postgraduate entrance exam in quarantine ward
2020-12-27 14:28
A worker disinfects a test room for the National Postgraduate Entrance Examination in Dalian Jinpu New Area, Liaoning province on Dec , . Photo provided to chinadaily.com.cn    An asymptomatic carrier took her firstday exams for the ongoing National Postgraduate Entrance Examination on Saturday in a quarantine ward in a designated hospital for COVID in Dalian, Northeast Chinas Liaoning province. This marked the first time a COVID case took a major academic exam in China, according to Dalian Media Group. The special ward was equipped with emergency rescue equipment and medication. Two teachers supervised the exams through a monitor in front of a computer outside the ward. Two nurses sealed the examination papers and answer sheets in three layers of disinfected plastic bags before sending them out of the ward. Among the carriers close contacts,  students also took the exam  in specially arranged rooms. Though Dalian is at a critical stage for epidemic prevention and control, it has made every effort to ensure all its , applicants smoothly take the national examination, which lasts until Monday. Also,  testtakers from the citys five subdistricts, which are under closedoff management, took the exam. The expenses of their designated hotel rooms, food, traffic and nucleic acid testing during the exam period will be covered by the Dalian Jinpu New Area, where the subdistricts, testtaking facilities and hotels are located. The port city reported four new confirmed COVID cases and two new asymptomatic locallytransferred infections on Saturday. It has reported  confirmed COVID cases and  locallytransferred asymptomatic infections as of Saturday, since fresh infections emerged on Dec . The capital city of Liaoning province, Shenyang, reported three confirmed cases and one asymptomatic infection on Saturday. The province now has  confirmed patients and  asymptomatic carriers in the hospital, according to the Liaoning provincial health commission. Wu Yong in Shenyang contributed to this story.