Strictest measures enacted to contain viral pneumonia
2020-01-22 04:43
An official uses an infrared thermometer on a passenger at a health screening checkpoint at Wuhan Tianhe International Airport in Wuhan, Hubei province, on Tuesday. EMILY WANG  AP    Chinese health authorities are adopting the strictest prevention and control measures for the new strain of coronavirus that has caused a pneumonia outbreak in Wuhan, Hubei province, as the pathogen continues to spread. On Monday,  new confirmed cases of the virus  nCoV  were reported on the Chinese mainland, bringing the total number of confirmed cases on the Chinese mainland to , six of whom died, the National Health Commission said on Tuesday afternoon. Among the new cases,  were reported in Hubei province, two in Shanghai and three in Beijing. In addition,  suspected cases were reported on Monday, bringing the total number of suspected cases to , the commission said. Taiwan health authorities said on Tuesday a woman of about  years of age was confirmed to be infected with the virus, the first such case on the island. In the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region, no confirmed cases were reported as of Tuesday evening, but the number of suspected cases rose to  as of Tuesday noon, according to official data. Wuhan, the center of the outbreak, reported  new cases on Monday and two additional fatalities  a yearold man and yearold woman. Both of them died on Monday due to multiple organ failure, the Wuhan Health Commission said. The total death toll from the virus climbed to six, all in Wuhan. Zhong Nanshan, a member of the Chinese Academy of Engineering and a prominent expert on respiratory diseases, said existing evidence shows the new virus can spread from human to human, and the epidemic may spread further, given that China will see a massive human migration during the upcoming Spring Festival holiday. The source of the infection has not been located, and its means of transmission is not clear. Health experts agree the possibility exists for mutation of the virus, according to the National Health Commission.