Strict virus control measures to continue, says national health body
2021-11-06 17:40
A medical worker takes a swab sample from a villager for COVID nucleic acid test in Dongguan village of Shenze county, Shijiazhuang, North Chinas Hebei province, Nov , . PhotoXinhua    China will continue to implement its existing COVID control measures as they are sciencebased, effective and necessary amid the raging pandemic, Wu Liangyou, deputy director of the National Health Commissions disease prevention and control bureau, said on Saturday. He made the comment in response to a question on the prospect of dialing back what has been interpreted as zero tolerance policy against COVID that is, aiming to eradicate all domestic cases whenever a fresh outbreak occurs. At present, the novel coronaviruss spread around the globe, and especially in Chinas neighboring countries, is unstable and rampant, and the domestic epidemic situation remains complicated and severe this winter and spring, he said during a news briefing. We will continue to enforce strict virus control measures, solidifying the defense against imported cases and local flareups, and consolidate our hardwon outcomes in stemming the virus, he said. Since China brought the first wave of domestic outbreaks concentrated in Hubei province under control, the country has experienced over  locally transmitted outbreaks, all of which have been triggered by imported cases, he said. Realworld practices have shown that our disease control strategy fits the condition of the country and is sciencebased. The strategy has also balanced disease control requests and development of society and economy, he said. Chinas latest COVID outbreaks have affected  provinciallevel regions, according to the commission. Mi Feng, a spokesman of the commission, said COVID cases are increasing globally since midOctober, piling pressure on Chinas defense against imported cases. The recent local outbreaks have involved several ports and have resulted in a number of chains of transmission, he said during a briefing. Wu added that China had reported  confirmed local infections from Oct  to Friday. Genome sequencing and epidemiological investigation results show that recent outbreaks were caused by different sources of imported cases, he said. While many regions, including the Inner Mongolia autonomous region, Gansu province and Beijing, have brought the virus under control or are on track to achieving the goal, Wu said the outbreak situation in Heilongjiang, Hebei, Henan, Jiangxi, Sichuan and Liaoning provinces and Chongqing are still developing and requires close monitoring.