Steady growth strengthens appeal of renminbi bonds
2021-08-19 07:26
A cashier at a bank in Taiyuan, Shanxi province counts renminbi notes. PhotoChina News Service    That overseas investors have been increasing their holdings of renminbi bonds for  consecutive months till Julyaccording to China Central Depository and Clearing Co datashows the Chinese bond markets growing attractiveness. The increasing popularity of renminbi bonds has much to do with Chinas overall financial system being in good health and its market valuation having fewer bubbles. Thanks to Chinas sustainable development, the investment value of its financial assets and the further opening up of its capital market, foreign investors will continue to increase their renminbi bond holdings, and the Chinese bond market is expected to attract more overseas investors. The Chinese economy has shown strong resilience against external pressures and still has huge potential. China was the only major economy to achieve positive growth last year. And in the first half of this year, it achieved . percent GDP growth. Chinas coordinated prevention and control measures in fighting the novel coronavirus outbreak, and its continuously expanding economy and steady economic recovery have given a solid start to its th FiveYear Plan  for national economic and social development. The Wall Street Journal, Japans Kyodo News and other foreign media outlets have all praised Chinas economic performance this year. Chinas sound economic fundamentals, effective epidemic prevention and control measures, and continuous improvements in the balance of payment have all boosted market expectations for the appreciation of the renminbi and enhanced the attractiveness of renminbi assets. Given the slow global economic recovery and the negative interest rate environment, the renminbi bonds with stable and relatively high yield are attracting more and more foreign investors. The further opening up of Chinas bond market and the broader capital market, and the shift from factor flowbased to rulebased market openingup are key reasons for the increasing popularity of renminbi bonds. As the Chinese bonds have been included in global mainstream bond indexes, foreign institutions find it more convenient to invest in the Chinese market through renminbi bonds. With the further opening up of the financial market, Chinas bond market will gain more popularity among global investors.