Stateowned oil, gas firms help maintain economic stability
2020-02-20 08:41
Technicians of Sinopec check gas facilities in Puyang, Henan province.Photo by Tong JiangFor China Daily    Stateowned oil and gas companies are ramping up efforts to help domestic companies resume production to ease the impact of the novel coronavirus outbreak and maintain economic stability. China National Petroleum Corp, the countrys largest oil and gas producer in terms of output, has seen its average daily output for crude and gas rise . percent and . percent yearonyear during the Lunar New Year holiday. The companys Changqing oil and gas field, the largest oil and gas production base of China that has been providing energy for more than  million residents in Beijing, Shaanxi and Inner Mongolia, produced . million cubic meters of natural gas daily during the Spring Festival period, while its Daqing oilfield has produced more than . million metric tons of crude and  million cubic meters of natural gas in January this year. The Tarim oilfield in the Xinjiang Uygur autonomous region delivered more than . billion cubic meters of natural gas in January, a yearonyear increase of more than  million cubic meters, while the Xinjiang oilfield located in Karamay produced more than . million tons of crude and  million cubic meters of natural gas last month. The corporations drilling companies located in Gansu, Sichuan, Qinghai, Inner Mongolia and Xinjiang drilled  wells without a single case of infection, it said. It has also been expanding production of raw materials necessary for protective supplies for medical workers on the frontline of the fight against novel coronavirus, including disinfectants, protective suits and masks. So far it has donated  million yuan . million to Hubei, together with natural gas worth  million yuan, to  hospitals in the province. All its  gas stations in Hubei are in service and some  tons of diesel have been provided to Huoshenshan Fire God Mountain Hospital and Leishenshan Thunder God Mountain Hospital, the two hospitals built to treat patients infected by the coronavirus. China Petrochemical Corp Sinopec, Chinas largest oil refiner, has ramped up oil and gas as well as raw material supplies to produce medical materials, drugs and emergency supplies for the affected areas. The company produced . million tons of crude in January, equal to that of last year. Gas production reached . billion cubic meters, a yearonyear increase of . percent. Crude processing volume reached . million tons, up . percent yearonyear, while oil products output reached . million tons, up . percent yearonyear. All of the corporations , gas stations in Hubei are running normally and it has provided  million cubic meters of natural gas to the province daily, with  million cubic meters transferred to the provincial capital of Wuhan, the center of the epidemic. In addition to providing , tons of raw materials including polypropylene, for making masks, syringes and other medical supplies during the first week of February, it also supplied free natural gas on Tuesday to the Leishenshan Hospital. China National Offshore Oil Corp, also known as CNOOC, has provided , tons of petroleum products during the Spring Festival holiday to provinces like Hubei and Zhejiang. Its  gas stations in Hubei are in service and have provided , tons of petroleum products to the region to help buffer the impact of the novel coronavirus outbreak. It has also produced more than , tons of polyethylene and polypropylene, the raw material for masks, syringes and other medical supplies that are necessary to produce protective products against the novel coronavirus, to help ease the shortage of medical supplies. Analysts said the countrys Stateowned energy giants have done a good job in ensuring domestic oil and gas production while in quarantine and helped prevent infection by the novel coronavirus during work. The energy giants have illustrated their antirisk capability through the oil and gas production performance during the past few weeks, said Li Li, research director at energy consulting company ICIS China. They have also helped soften the impact of the novel coronavirus epidemic on Chinas economy by ensuring domestic energy security and the supply of antiepidemic materials, she said.