Stateowned airlines post sluggish performance amid epidemic
2020-03-19 17:47
China Southern Airlines flight CZ takes off at the Daxing International Airport in Beijing, Sept , . PhotoXinhua    Chinas three major carriers all posted sluggish operational data in February, in the wake of the global novel coronavirus epidemic, according to their statements released on Wednesday. However, the domestic air travel market is starting to pick up in March. In February, the passenger turnover traffic for Air China, China Eastern Airlines and China Southern Airlines all declined more than  percent yearonyear, according to their statements. The passenger turnover of Air China reached . billion, down . percent yearonyear. The passenger turnover of China Eastern came in at . billion, down . percent yearonyear, and China Southern saw its passenger turnover reach . billion, down . percent yearonyear. The passenger load factor of the three carriers was around  percent in February, which was  to  percentage points lower than the same period of last year, according to their statements. In March, with most enterprises in China gradually resuming their work, the domestic air travel market has been showing a trend of warming up. During the week of March  to March , the number of issued flight tickets was  percent higher than the previous week, and the business passenger flows of Beijing, Shanghai, Guangzhou and Shenzhen were rebounding, according to Qunar, one of the largest online travel agencies in China. Air China said since the outbreak of the epidemic, the company has taken various measures in epidemic prevention and control. It will optimize the capacity, strengthen cost management, and take active measures to minimize the impact of the epidemic. China Eastern said COVID is quickly expanding globally, and the situation is getting increasingly severe in some countries and regions. The epidemic has significantly affected the transportation industry, as passenger demand and willingness to travel have dropped remarkably. China Eastern suspended the operations of some flights, and it will adjust the capacity depending on the epidemic control development and market demand. It said there is big uncertainty regarding the duration and severity of the impact on the international and domestic aviation business, and investors should pay attention to potential risks. China Southern also said the contagion will have an unfavorable impact on the companys operations, and the specific degree of the influence is uncertain.