State logistics firm helps in world virus fight
2020-05-29 09:34
Crew of the MV. Yuan Jian Hai, a dry bulk carrier owned by China COSCO Shipping Corp, handle engineering equipment in the vessels engine room in early April. Photo provided to China Daily    China COSCO Shipping playing vital role in fixing industrial, supply chains With its vessels having delivered many batches of aircraft components from Germany to Airbus SEs Tianjin plant, medical supplies from China to countries including Italy, Greece and Uruguay, and frozen pork from Canada to Shanghai so far this year, China COSCO Shipping Corp has been rushing to fix and prevent disruptions to the worlds industrial and supply chains caused by the COVID pandemic. The Shanghaibased group has been helping other centrallyadministrated Stateowned enterprises including China National Chemical Engineering Co, China Railway Rolling Stock Corp and Aluminum Corporation of China to either export their chemical goods and trains or import commodities from countries including Saudi Arabia, India, Indonesia, Vietnam, Thailand, Turkey and Guinea in the first four months of the year. As a key player in the global shipping business, we have taken more than  targeted measures and responded to the new situation in a flexible way to ensure the smooth operation of domestic companies overseas projects, international production capacity cooperation and the timely export of goods since the pandemic broke out, said Xu Lirong, chairman of China COSCO Shipping, the worlds largest shipping company by fleet size. Apart from assisting domestic companies from both private and SOE sectors in stabilizing their supply chains, the company also delivered key components for the production of A aircraft by Airbus in the Tianjin Binhai New Area in midApril amid the closure of many overland routes. Facing the outbreak of COVID, Xu said the groups global team in charge of this project has focused on epidemic control and operation, ensuring a smooth international supply chain for the Airbus project. Beginning in June , the Chinese firm has undertaken the entire logistics transportation process for the European aircraft makers final assembly plant in Tianjin. Despite the outbreak generating a number of uncertainties in global trade and logistics activities beginning in January, the groups European branch has maintained close contact with the representative office of the China Tianjin Port Free Trade Zones administrative committee in Europe and Airbus Hamburg, Germany plant to ensure safe and smooth operations in Europe. To complete the work, China COSCO Shipping secured a stable line to and from Europe within which key components are shipped and punctuality and delivery guaranteed to meet client requirements to push forward the entire logistics transportation plan. China COSCO Shipping delivered components of  aircraft from Europe to China between Jan  and midMay, thus helping maintaining the global logistics supply chain for the Airbus project. Xi Jinping, general secretary of the Communist Party of China Central Committee, chaired a leadership meeting on the effective implementation of regular epidemic prevention and control measures on May . The meeting of the Standing Committee of the Political Bureau of the CPC Central Committee also studied measures to boost the stability and competitiveness of industrial and supply chains.