State Grid sets transmission record
2020-08-28 09:11
A State Grid employee checks transformers at a substation in Zhangjiakou, Hebei province, in June. PhotoXinhua    Crossprovincial electricity supply efforts support nations recovery amid epidemic State Grid Corporation of China reported its crossregional and crossprovincial power transmission levels hit a record high this summer as the countrys economy further recovers from COVID and grows using many new business models. The groups maximum capacity for crossregional electricity transfer reached . million kilowatts during the summer, an increase of . million kW from the previous high level set in . State Grids maximum capacity for crossprovincial electricity transfer rose . million kW from the high set last year to . million kW. The growth indicated the nations accelerated pace of social and economic recovery, said Xin Baoan, president of the Beijingbased central SOE. Amid effective pandemic prevention and control measures, China reported consecutive growth in power consumption as business activity was further restored, said the National Development and Reform Commission earlier this month. The group announced that it completed the ZhangbeiXiongan , kV ultrahigh voltage AC transmission and transformation project in Hebei province last month. The project runs from Zhangbei UHV substation in Zhangjiakou to Xiongan UHV substation in Baoding. It crosses nine counties and districts across the province. The project is currently being tested by related government branches and thirdparty inspection agencies. It is expected to be operational by the end of the month. Since the project was launched in March , construction and management unitsguided by State Grids UHV transmission projectshave overcome challenges of complex geological conditions affecting construction, short working periods and contagion containment issues. They enhanced coordination with local governments and partnered with construction units, and dealt with various issues to ensure the completion of the project on time. As a key project of State Grid critical to the UHV ring grid in North China, the project adopted UHV AC technology which features longdistance large capacity transmission and will transmit abundant clean power from Zhangjiakou to the load center of Xiongan New Area of Hebei province without burdening Beijings  kV ring grid. After entering operation, it will deliver more than  terawatt hours of clean power to Xiongan every year, achieving  percent clean power supply for the new area. Xin said the company has contributed to the fight against COVID by supplying safe and reliable power while boosting economic and social development. Central China, particularly Hubei provincethe hardesthit region in Chinawas a main battlefield for State Grid. The company has arranged staff from facilities, safety supervision, power generation and operation and maintenance branches to ensure power supply and safe operations in the province. In addition to providing hour shifts and supervision, unmanned aerial vehicles, inspection robots and online monitoring systems were adopted to offer safe power grids and highquality electric services this year.