State firms ramp up medical gear manufacture
2020-03-26 10:33
A total of , newlydeveloped medical bow caps developed by Xinxing Cathay International Group Co Ltd were delivered to Hubei province as the Stateowned firm is bolstering efforts to develop advanced outfits for medical staff in the front line of the battle against the COVID epidemic. PhotoXinxing Cathay International Group    A total of , newlydeveloped medical bow caps developed by Xinxing Cathay International Group Co Ltd were delivered to Hubei province as the Stateowned firm is bolstering efforts to develop advanced outfits for medical staff in the front line of the battle against the COVID epidemic. Medical bow caps are headwears for medical staff to prevent potential contamination through hair. The fresh bow cap is ventilated with a breathing machine in comparison to the common hood worn by medical workers. It is able to retain positive pressure and keep out poisonous air, which means it has a higher protective ability than the common face guard, N masks and protective glasses. For Nanjing Jihua  Special Equipment Co Ltd, a subsidiary of Xinxing Cathy International and the developer of the medical bow cap, producing the cap is not what the firm is familiar with. Before the epidemic, the subsidiary mainly produced military equipment and nonwoven filter materials. When the firm became aware that such medical materials were badlyneeded, the firm soon started producing them. The Nanjingbased firm also developed a shoe that has antivirus qualities for medical staff who said that common shoes made them uncomfortable and sweat a lot while wearing them for a long time. In line with the call of Chinese President Xi Jinping, the countrys Stateowned enterprises like SDIC are setting a good example by resuming work while seeking to contain the disease. Xi said that coordinated efforts are needed to resume production based on the local health situation to promote socioeconomic development while preventing the spread of the virus. Nanjing Jihua  is one of the companies under Xinxing Cathy International which have resumed operations and switch the production lines to produce badlyneeded supplies for Wuhan. On Jan , days after the COVID outbreak, the company decided to resume work to produce medical protective garments. They did not produce such garments before, but they established a technology group to deal with designs and techniques. It took only three days for the company to successfully develop the garment and put it into production. With all of its production lines operating at high gear, the company is able to produce over , protective garments daily. So far, it has produced more than  million protective garments. A consortium of SOEs are resuming operations in different regions, industries and working on several projects during the outbreak, said Xia Qingfeng, director of the Bureau of Publicity of the Stateowned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission of the State Council.