Starbucks patrons can order with sign language
2021-02-09 09:50
An employee of a Starbucks outlet in Shanghais Huangpu district serves a customer with sign language. HE WEICHINA DAILY    Ordering a cup of Starbucks coffee has just become easier for the hearing impaired in Shanghai. The international coffeehouse chain has opened on outlet in the city that allows hearingimpaired customers to order using sign language or the written word. The outlet, located in downtown Huangpu district, is staffed by  people who can communicate using the standardized sign language used in China. Five of these employees suffer from hearing loss. A smart voicerecognition system, which Starbucks said was developed by Microsoft, has been put in place to turn speech into text, allowing baristas with hearing difficulties to engage with customers. The outlet also provides a reusable writing pad on which customers can write their orders. Every employee of the store is taking sign language courses, Li Ziyi, store manager, said. We hope to make progress fast enough to better serve our customers. Li said the store is also looking to host regular coffeemaking workshops featuring baristas with hearing impairments. The store opens up precious job opportunities for the physically challenged and epitomizes the citys unwavering care and support for the cohort, said Chen Dongyuan, an executive at Shanghai Disabled Persons Federation. The association has devised joint courses with Starbucks to train its employees with customized modules that include coffee brewing techniques and business management. Mei Erzi, , a hearingimpaired barista working in the store, said he looked forward to learning more about the cashier system and Englishlanguage coffee terminology. Apart from Shanghai, Starbucks operates stores in Guangzhou, Beijing and Hangzhou where employees know sign language. Shanghai had registered around , people as having hearing difficulties by the end of , according to data from the federation. The city has spared no efforts in attending to the communitys needs. Since last year, multiple government agencies have been heavily promoting sign language translation in livestreamed shows to popularize prevention and control measures on the COVID epidemic, according to a notice by the federation issued in August. A growing number of companies have also become advocates of those with hearing loss. Four months ago, the Shanghai Disney Resort launched a free sign language interpretation service by partnering with a thirdparty social enterprise. Jayme Lawman, a basketball coach at Shanghai High School who is from England, taught himself sign language. He said hearing people need to learn more about sign language and the deaf culture. He is connected with the citys hearing impaired community and helps get their voices heard through promoting initiatives like the Starbucks sign language store opening. They need to be in the mainstream media a lot more, he said. So we are the ones who need help, not them.