Stabilizing employment, ensuring livelihoods are govt priorities Finance minister
2020-07-21 22:10
Finance Minister Liu Kun attends a virtual meeting of G Finance Ministers and Central Bank Governors, on July , . PhotoMinistry of Finance of the PRC    China will continually deploy powerful economic policies to stabilize employment in support of economic recovery from novel coronavirus shocks, Finance Minister Liu Kun said at a virtual meeting of G Finance Ministers and Central Bank Governors. The nation will continue to promote economic and social development, as well as control and prevent the spread of the COVID epidemic, with stronger countercyclical measures and more proactive fiscal actions, said Liu, reported by the Ministry of Finance on Tuesday. The government this year will give priority to stabilizing employment and ensuring peoples livelihoods, he said, highlighting that the major indicators of Chinas economy have shown signs of recovery growth and the epidemic has been controlled domestically. The impact of the spreading virus on the worlds economy was greater than expected, and the damage to industry chains and employment may maintain in the long term, according to the statement. G members should continually deploy their action plans and adjust policy measures in a timely manner to control the pandemic and promote economic recovery, Liu proposed at the meeting. The finance minister suggested G countries take public health measures and contain the pandemic. Macroeconomic policy coordination should be strengthened to stabilize employment and gross demand, as well as to bring global supply chains back on track. Liu also called for encouraging international organizations to increase new funds to narrow funding gaps in developing countries.? At a video conference of the th ChinaFrance High Level Economic and Financial Dialogue, cochaired by Chinese VicePremier Hu Chunhua and French Economy and Finance Minister Bruno Le Maire on Tuesday, both sides agreed to support the critical role of the G as an important forum for international economic cooperation to improve global economic governance, according to a statement from the Ministry of Finance.? The two countries also reached a consensus to encourage the effective implementation of the G Debt Service Suspension Initiative for the worlds poorest countries, calling for the G to further extend the period of debt suspension for countries concerned, including those in Africa, and encourage the multilateral financial institutions, including the World Bank, and private creditors, to participate in the plan, the statement said.?