Spurring shared home biz to rebound
2020-05-25 10:35
A host cleans a room for guests in a village in Shandong province. PhotoXinhua    Online platforms that list shortterm shared accommodations have been hit hard by the COVID pandemic as hundreds of millions of guests canceled their reservations and stayed indoors under selfquarantine. I was one of them. I had planned to go to Japan with my mom in March to experience sights of the most brilliant cherry blossoms. So, I went ahead and booked air tickets as well as accommodation in advance through shortterm lodging services online. But I had to cancel my travel plan as the novel coronavirus spread rapidly across the globe. Luckily, I received full and quick refunds. According to data from Chinese sharedhome listings provider Xiaozhu, Chinas vacation rental business has lost more than  percent of orders during the Spring Festival holiday Jan Feb . Nearly  percent of hosts in tourist hot spot Hainan province lost more than , yuan , directly due to COVID. And  percent of the hosts said the biggest difficulty in operations was disappearing rents. In order to help landlords tide over difficulties, Xiaozhu has taken a series of measures such as waiving or reducing its own commission fees, collaborating with Xianyu, Alibabas online platform for used goods, to offer discounts and coupons on longterm rentals, and launching livestreaming sessions to promote shortterm rentals of shared homes and to introduce local specialties. Peng Tao, president of Airbnb China, said he is fully aware of the impact of the public health emergency on the shortterm vacation rental industry, especially the challenges placed on hosts. The company is helping accommodation providers to cope with the epidemics impact and rebuild their confidence by launching a series of training courses for hosts. These courses cover household management, redesigning homestays, innovating operations, customerguest communications, and best practices in disinfection, and epidemic prevention and control. According to Kantar Consulting, the three business segments of tourism, catering and entertainment will have the greatest potential for a rebound in consumption whenever the epidemic ends. In one of its surveys,  percent of respondents consumers said they will return to spending on travel. The outbreak has had a heavy impact on the whole tourism industry, but we believe that its effect will likely be temporary. The tourism and homestay markets would see a rebound and scale a new consumption peak when the epidemic ends, said Li Zhenni, executive vicepresident and chief business officer of Tujia. Li has a lot of confidence in the recovery of the industry. The epidemic has only suppressed peoples travel demand in the short term but their yearning for highquality life and beautiful natural scenery has never stopped. Domestic tours and shorthaul trips have been favored by consumers, who attach more importance to the quality and cleanliness of shared homes they rent, Li said, adding the threshold will be increasingly higher and service quality will be improved accordingly.