Spring forest, prairie fires down  percent
2020-04-09 19:40
The aftermath of a spring drizzle creates a misty, magical scene in this photo taken by a drone on Huangbai mountain in Shangcheng county, Central Chinas Henan province, on March , . PhotoXinhua    As the novel coronavirus continued its grip on China, the country has seen significantly fewer forest and prairie fires this spring, the season with the highest frequencies of fires. While greatly reduced outdoor activities due to the epidemic helped, this also has proven the effectiveness of the countrys efforts in emergency management, officials said. In the past five years, over  percent of major fires in the country occurred in spring, said Zhou Xuewen, viceminister of emergency management, at a news conference organized by the State Council Information Office on Thursday. This year, as people refrained from outdoor activities due to the epidemic, the ministry has ramped up forest and prairie fire management. In March, the country recorded only  forest and prairie fires, a yearonyear drop of . percent, he said. If compared with the average of the past five years, the number went down by . percent, he continued. According to Peng Xiaoguo, executive deputy director of the office for the countrys Forest and Prairie Fires Prevention and Control headquarters, the country has managed to rule out thousands of fire hazards in a threemonth campaign the headquarters launched on March  on management of outdoor ignition sources. As of April , a total of , inspectors had been involved in the campaign and helped comb out and rectify , hazards. Police across the country unearthed , violations in use of fires and punished , people, he said. Despite the general encouraging fire control situation, Southwest China, however, has seen a deteriorating fire control situation compared with last year. A total of  forest and prairie fires, for example, occurred in Sichuan province in March, up by  percent yearonyear, according to the ministry. A raging forest fire in the provinces Liangshan Yi autonomous prefecture killed  people who were fighting it and seriously injured another three on March , about one year after a deadly forest blaze claimed  people in the prefecture. The ministry has summoned leading officials in Sichuan province and Liangshan prefecture, a Thursday media release from the ministry said. Since the beginning of this year, most regions in the country have experienced higher temperatures but less precipitation, and the risks for forest and prairie fires across the country have been staying at high levels. The situation is especially grim in Southwest and South China, said Chen Xuefeng, chief of Forest and Prairie Fire Control at the National Forestry and Grassland Administration. Peng said, as part of its efforts to issue early warnings in the region to facilitate fire control work in the region, his ministry will resort to satellite remote sensing, remote video monitoring and intensified aircraft patrols to enhance monitoring.