Sporadic local infections warrant tight control China Daily editorial
2020-11-22 20:07
Medical workers wait to take swab samples from residents in Hangu Street of Binhai New Area, North Chinas Tianjin municipality, Nov , . PhotoXinhua    On Friday, Tianjin reported five newly confirmed local COVID cases, triggering largescale nucleic acid tests for the virus. On Friday and Saturday, Shanghai confirmed a total of three local infections, prompting the municipal authorities to raise the epidemic risk level for the neighborhood concerned, and reimpose restrictions on mobility. On Saturday, in the universal screening of potentially vulnerable groups, the city of Manzhouli in the Inner Mongolia autonomous region detected and later confirmed two local cases. With nucleic acid tests underway citywide, schools, kindergartens, training institutions and most public venues have been suspended. And the small town on the ChinaRussia border is now under lockdown, with railway and transit air services cut off. As of Sunday morning, Tianjin had collected more than  million samples for testing Shanghai had more than , people under quarantine. Though the new infections are few in number, and scattered far apart, their emergence has confirmed earlier fears that the novel coronavirus, which has largely been under control across the country, may stage a comeback as winter kicks in. For quite some time, with mandatory closed circuit management of inbound mobility in place, coldchain food imports have been in the limelight. The five infections Tianjin just reported have again been traced back and attributed to the cold chain. Also on Saturday in Dongguan of Guangdong province, two samples from outer packages of imported coldchain food  one from Argentina, the other from Russia  tested positive. While these findings verify the authorities calls for vigilance regarding the cold chain, the latest infections in Shanghai reportedly had nothing to do with coldchain goods, although one of the victims is a loader at a UPS cargo transfer facility at a local airport. With a conclusive scientific judgment pending, scientists initial assumption points to a potentially broader risk  all cargo imports may be carriers of the virus as it gets colder. Should this be the case, the cost of pandemic prevention will rise significantly across the board, as potentially all crossborder cargo shipments may have to undergo screening. Since imported infections were identified as the most important source of the virus on Chinese soil and coldchain food was singled out as another loophole, the country has relied heavily on strict control at ports of entry to cut the virus channels of dissemination. Should noncold chain imports need to be subject to that level of screening, technical and financial inputs will have to be stepped up accordingly.