Smart robots help childrens education
2020-03-23 15:10
Employees from Suzhou Walklake Smart System Co Ltd install parts into smart preschool screening robots at the companys plant in Suzhou, East Chinas Jiangsu province, on March , . Photo provided to chinadaily.com.cn    Suzhou Walklake Smart System Co Ltd, a Jiangsu provincebased technology solution provider and robot manufacturer, has seen surging orders of smart preschool screening robots from schools and kindergartens across China since the COVID epidemic broke out. With precise and medicalgrade sensors, the smart preschool screening robot can effectively inspect childrens body temperatures, eyes, hands and mouths within several seconds. Many opportunities come from many schools and kindergartens preparations for epidemic prevention and China has stably contained the outbreak throughout the country, said Zhang Ziyang, general manager of Suzhou Walklake. The company has received many orders from provinces and municipalities, including Hubei, Henan, Beijing, Shanghai, Zhejiang and Fujian, in the past two months. Its sales jumped  times in February yearonyear. Zhang noted the demand for robots has indeed exploded amid the coronavirus outbreak. In addition to deploying disinfection robots and goods distribution, many businesses have adopted smart screening robots in their plants or offices to assist their work operations and production resumption. On the other hand, the automatic data retention, statistics and analysis also can provide more support to the governments management on disease control, he added. The companys smart preschool screening robots to date have been used in over , kindergartens in China. Since the outbreak of COVID, Chinese companies have launched multiple products and technologies to help prevent and control the epidemic, said Sun Fuquan, a researcher at the Beijingbased Chinese Academy of Science and Technology for Development. He predicted that more AI temperature testing systems, smart robots, warning platform designed to limit human movement, voicecontrolled elevators, and intelligent voice electronic medical record systems will be widely used in the domestic market soon.