Skeptical scribe converts to ehealthcare
2020-06-08 09:40
A woman communicates with a doctor with the aid of a robot in Beijing, April , . PhotoXinhua    Healthcare has been my reporting beat for almost four years now. Ive closely tracked and written about the latest trends in the industry. Somehow, ehealthcare, or internetbased healthcare, cut no ice with me, maybe because the idea of consulting with a doctor online didnt just seem right. The COVID epidemic in China has shown how wrong I was! In the preepidemic era, I thought placing liferelated issues in the hands of a practically virtual person wasnt a bright idea. Visiting a regular hospital, going through the registration procedures, seeing a doctor facetoface, and receiving prescribed medicine seemed a natural drill. But COVID lockdowns have proved a gamechanger. As hospitals coped with unprecedented inflows of COVID cases, others were confined to their homes. Those who needed to see a doctor could do so only through online healthcare services, which were legalized during the epidemic period. I was one of them. My personal experience has totally changed my mind on internetbased healthcare services. On Feb , when the epidemic was at its peak in Wuhan in Hubei province, and in some other regions in China, I woke up with a sore throat. It was during that period when every day the number of confirmed cases was surging. My immediate reaction was to wonder if I was infected with the coronavirus. I didnt dare go to a hospital. I reached out for my phone and dialed an internetbased healthcare platform. I had been writing about Chinese online medical firms offering free COVIDrelated consultation services. Now, suddenly, I found myself using their service. The online registration was simple. I logged in. There was a prominent COVID free consultation zone. After filling out a form about current symptoms and my condition, I was connected with a doctor. Dr Ye Li from a Agrade hospital in Chengdu, Sichuan province, materialized online within  minutes. The good doctor first greeted me and queried about my movements, contacts, and safety drills like maskwearing. After a minute conversation, he ruled out the possibility of a COVID infection. He asked what kind of cold medicine I had at hand, and offered medication advice. Having heard about some popular folk remedies for COVID prevention, such as a hot soup with ginger, dates and brown sugar, I asked him whether I could give them a shot. Dr Ye denied such remedies have any scientific basis. He patiently explained what constitutes medicine, and kindly offered various COVID prevention tips. The minute online session made a deep positive impression on my mind. I took the prescribed medicine for four days, and recovered from what turned out to be a bout of regular cold. Chen Qiaoshan, a medical analyst at Beijingbased market consultancy Analysys, said During the fight against the epidemic, users willingly or halfwillingly got to know about and began to try online healthcare services. In addition, many internet healthcare platforms had launched free COVID consultation services. The user volume and penetration rate of the sector were greatly raised. The online doctorpatient relationship based on trust is fundamental to the development of internet healthcare. With growing reliability and rising user volume, enterprises that are able to maintain the growth momentum and exploit opportunities will emerge winners when the epidemic is over, she said. Currently, many internetbased healthcare firms are ramping up efforts to ride the opportunities. On May , Shanghaibased online medical firm Shangying Hospital Management Co Ltd and Shanghai Tongji Hospital jointly launched an independent and comprehensive internet hospital in Shanghai, aiming to adopt a combination of offline and online channels to enhance the effectiveness of modern healthcare. Online medical services will not confine only to medical consultation or big data support, but extend to collaborative medical decisions and even result in optimized medical resources. During the postpandemic period, online healthcare platforms will effectively alleviate the difficulties faced in conventional medical treatment, and contribute to the integrated development of the Yangtze River Delta, said Zhao Liyu, executive dean of Shangying Hospital.