Singles Day helps boost global recovery China Daily editorial
2020-11-11 20:14
Staff members promote sales of cosmetics via livestreaming at a shopping mall in Shijiazhuang, North Chinas Hebei province, on Nov , .?During the annual Singles Day shopping spree on Nov  in China, many companies have seized the opportunity to promote sales via livestreaming. PhotoXinhua    Within half an hour of the annual Nov  online shopping gala beginning at the stroke of midnight on Wednesday, the total purchasing volume on Tmall alone exceeded . billion yuan . billion, higher than a whole years revenue of Morgan Stanley or Goldman Sachs. Last year, the total consumption for the whole of the Singles Day shopping event was . billion yuan. This year it took only  minutes for Tmall to achieve a sales volume that was  percent higher. While that is partly a reflection of Chinese people finally releasing their consumption potential delayed as a result of the epidemic prevention and control measures at the beginning of the year, it is also indicative of their growing consumption power. The event has set new sales records year after year. Now,  years after its birth, the Nov  festival has surpassed its original role as a simple sales booster and promotional event for Tmall to become a powerful engine of the national economy. Data show that of the three engines, consumption, investment and exports, consumption is now the most powerful driver of the national economy. It has propelled Chinas economy from negative to positive growth in the first three quarters of the year, despite the COVID pandemic and the attendant economic headwinds and uncertainties. Over the years, the event has also caught the attention of foreign companies eyeing the Chinese market. Such that although born in China, it is now a worldwide phenomenon. For example, during the preselling period from Oct  to , during which consumers could order the discounted goods they wanted in advance, Estee Lauder, LOreal, and Lancome were among the most popular brands for their skin care products. At a time when many developed countries are experiencing an economic recession, China with its robust economic recovery and strong consumption force has become a beacon of hope for many foreign companies trying to navigate a survival course through the pandemic. According to fresh data from the General Administration of Customs, Chinas total foreign trade reached . trillion yuan in the first  months of the year, . percentage points higher than that of last year. Every year after the Singles Day, people ask each other Did you participate in this years hundredbillion yuan project? Every company selling and every person buying in this years event made contributions to the postpandemic recovery of the nation and the world.