Zhejiang, a window to Chinas new development vision
2021-04-15 15:56
Participants of the thematic briefing visit a thematic exhibition before the event. Photo by Hu Yuanyongfor chinadaily.com.cn    The Stories of CPC  Zhejiangs Achievements in Practicing Xi Jinping Thought on Socialism with Chinese Characteristics for a New Era thematic briefing took place in Hangzhou, East Chinas Zhejiang province, on April . Cohosted by the International Department of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China and the CPC Zhejiang Provincial Committee, the thematic briefing, themed on Drawing up and Following through the Blueprint, reviewed the course of the CPCs efforts to fight for the fundamental interests of the Chinese since its founding, and showcased the countrys outstanding achievements in pursuing a new development vision, a new development paradigm and highquality development. Song Tao, head of the international department, said at the briefing that the CPC is destined to ensure the wellbeing of the people and rejuvenate the country. He also said that under the leadership of the CPC, China has won the battle against poverty. The CPC is willing to shoulder its responsibility and play its role in creating a peaceful, safe, prosperous, open and beautiful world together with the political parties in other countries, Song added. Zhejiang has witnessed huge improvements after pursuing the DoubleEight Strategy for  years, according to Yuan Jiajun, Party secretary of Zhejiang. Yuan elaborated on the provinces practice in innovative development, coordinated development, green development, open development and shared growth. He expressed hopes that all foreign diplomats and guests will introduce Zhejiang and China to their people and said that Zhejiang will enhance its cooperation with other countries in antipandemic, science and technology, as well as economy and trade matters. Five guests were invited to share about Zhejiangs economic development and stories of residents lives, including Ma Jun, deputy director of Hangzhou municipal development and reform commission, and Mohammad Falah Nasser, a Jordanian businessman in Yiwu. Nearly  representatives of political parties from more than  countries participated in the thematic briefing online. Foreign guests congratulated the CPC on its upcoming th anniversary and spoke highly of the achievements made by the Party in epidemic prevention and control, and poverty elimination.