Shanxi medical teams helping to battle coronavirus in Africa
2020-05-08 10:02
Shanxi doctor He Guolin trains medics in Yaounde, Cameroon, in surgical techniques. Photo by Xue LinFor China Daily    Provinces doctors head to Cameroon, Togo and Djibouti After the successful completion of its mission in Hubei province in March, Shanxis medical sector is now focusing its attention on assisting countries in Africa that have been hit by the COVID pandemic. Cameroon, Togo and Djibouti are three African countries that have been receiving medical assistance from Shanxi for a long period of time, and they have not been spared from the highly contagious disease. Their poor medical systems have posed a big challenge for epidemic prevention and control. Statistics from the World Health Organization show that there were , confirmed cases and  fatalities caused by COVID in Cameroon by May . The figures were , and three in Djibouti and  and nine in Togo. Shanxis medical teams, using their rich experience and advanced equipment, are among the major forces in local epidemic prevention and control. Che Xingxing, a doctor from Shanxi now working at a hospital in Mbalmayo, Cameroon, was among the first to take action. Che said he is experienced in emergency rescue and familiar with the operation of ventilators and other equipment. Ive carefully studied the guidelines for COVID treatment released by China and Im confident that I can play a role in treating patients while protecting myself well, Che told Shanxi Daily, a newspaper based in Taiyuan, capital city of the province. Also fully prepared is He Guolin, a Shanxi doctor now stationed in Yaounde, capital city of Cameroon. Im serving as an instructor, teaching local medics how to prevent the disease from spreading among medical staffers, He said. In Shanxi, the provincial commission of health has established a specialist team to provide training and instruction to Shanxis medics in the three African countries via online platforms. To date, we have attended  online training sessions organized by the State and Shanxis health authorities, especially in the areas of contagion prevention, psychology and emergency response, An Buyue, head of the Shanxi medical team in Cameroon, told Shanxi Daily. While enhancing cooperation and communication with local medics in treating Cameroons patients, the Shanxi medical team also paid special attention to disease prevention and control among Chinese expatriates in the country, according to Che. The doctor said his team members have frequently visited Chinese diplomatic missions and Chinese businesses in the country to offer supplies and suggestions for epidemic prevention. The team is working with local medical institutions, helping them set up complete systems and procedures for disease control and treatment. Practices such as testing, making space for patients to be checked and proper use of face masks, goggles and protective clothing are now standard in hospitals in Yaounde, thanks to the guidelines offered by the Shanxi medical team, according to Che. Che and his colleagues are members of the th medical assistance team from Shanxi to work in Cameroon. According to the Shanxi Commission of Health, this year is the th anniversary of Shanxis medical assistance in African countries. Since the mids, the province has dispatched  teams and , medical workers to Cameroon, Togo and Djibouti. During the past four decades, medics from Shanxi have made special contribution in areas such as ophthalmology, gynecology, obstetrics and contagious disease control. A total of  medics from Shanxi are currently working in Africa, including  in Cameroon,  in Togo and six in Djibouti. According to the Shanxi Commission of Health, no infection cases of COVID and other diseases have been reported among the  members. Xue Lin and Guo Yanjie contributed to this story.