Xi Create new paradigm for cybersecurity
2020-11-24 07:29
A child watches cloud video footage using virtual reality technology at the Light of Internet Expo, part of the World Internet ConferenceInternet Development Forum, in Wuzhen, Zhejiang province, on Sunday. ZHAI HUIYONGFOR CHINA DAILY    He hails important role of internet in economic recovery, global cooperation China is ready to work with other countries to create a new paradigm for cybersecurity as well as a community with a shared future in cyberspace, President Xi Jinping said in a congratulatory letter to the World Internet ConferenceInternet Development Forum, which opened on Monday in Wuzhen, Zhejiang province. Xi hailed the important role of the internet in promoting economic recovery, ensuring social progress around the world and promoting international cooperation against the COVID pandemic. Since the COVID outbreak, telemedicine, elearning, sharing platforms and collaboration systems have been widely used, the letter noted. China is ready to work with other countries to seize the historic opportunities presented by the information revolution, foster new growth drivers through innovation, break new ground in digital cooperation, create a new pattern for cybersecurity, build a community with a shared future in cyberspace and join hands to create a brighter future for humanity, Xi said in the letter. The twoday forum, with the theme of Digital Empowerment for a Better Future, Building a Community with a Shared Future in Cyberspace, is very timely, said Liu Zhenmin, undersecretarygeneral for economic and social affairs of the United Nations. As the world embraces digital transformation, the need for international cooperation has become more urgent than ever. The international community welcomes Chinas initiative and engagement in global internet governance, he said at the forums opening ceremony via video. Yang Yuanqing, chairman and CEO of tech company Lenovo, said he was deeply inspired by Xis remarks in the letter, which reaffirmed the critical role of digital technologies and the internet. The digital and intelligent transformation that we human beings are experiencing is a huge opportunity for the information technology industry. It should also be guided by technological innovations like G, Yang said on the sidelines of the forum. The remarks empowered us to continue to leverage G to drive the transformation progress and join hands with upstream and downstream industrial chains to contribute to the development of the digital economy and an intelligent society, he said. As COVID continues to spread worldwide, countries across the world should leverage global cooperation as a strong weapon and informatization as an effective means of fighting against the pandemic, said Zhuang Rongwen, minister of the Cyberspace Administration of China. During the pandemic, China has actively used frontier technologies such as big data and artificial intelligence in resource allocation and epidemic prevention, Zhuang said. China has shared such experience without reservation with other countries and such moves have been widely praised by the international community. Zhuang noted that the nation will further strengthen technical means in protecting the safety and health of people of all countries, especially in helping underdeveloped regions to improve their technological capabilities, so that the internet can truly offer support for humankind globally. The latest data from the forum showed that Chinas digital technologies and internet expansion are both on the fast track despite lingering economic uncertainties. So far, the country has built the worlds largest commercial G network. As of June, the nations internet users reached  million, with  million people using online education,  million people engaging in telecommuting and  million people using online healthcare services. In the upcoming five years, China, together with the United States, South Korea, Japan and a few markets in Europe, will be leading G development, said John Hoffman, CEO of the Global System for Mobile Communications Association, an international association of mobile operators. The association said that China is set to account for  percent of global G connections this year and is expected to have  million G connections by , which will be the most globally.