Shanghai  percent of large industrial enterprises resume operation
2020-03-09 18:19
A technician of China Telecom installs a G base station in Shanghai. Photo by Zhang HengweiChina News Service    As the spread?of the novel coronavirus pneumonia slows down in Shanghai, the citys production and operation in most industries have been gradually restarted, with  percent of largescale industrial enterprises having returned to work, an official?said. The improved controls and preventions for the COVID epidemic allow us to gradually restore business and work, said Zhang Jianming, deputy director of the Shanghai Municipal Commission of Economy and Informatization during a press conference on Monday. Apart from a few sectors not suitable for resuming business due to the high risks of humantohuman transmission of the disease, most enterprises can get back to business in accordance to the guideline published by the municipal government on Thursday, Zhang?said. As of Sunday,  percent of the citys industrial enterprises above designated size have resumed work that of foreignfunded enterprises is . percent that of export companies is  percent that of supermarkets is . percent that of shopping malls is . percent that of convenience stores is . percent, and that of logistics is . percent. All major projects in the city will be relaunched by the end of this month, he added. The municipal government has offered various supporting measures to aid business resumption,?including cutting taxes and fees by more than  million yuan ,, for privately and individuallyowned businesses in a single month, issuing . billion yuan loans to , enterprises via commercial banks in Shanghai as of March?, as well as granting rental cuts?or relief to , small and mediumsized enterprises as of Sunday. To date, more than , companies in Shanghai have donated . billion yuan through various charity organizations, and more than  companies donated  million yuan worth of products to hospitals. These companies will enjoy income tax deductions, said Pang Wei, vicechief of the Shanghai Municipal Bureau of Local Taxation. There was no new novel coronavirus pneumonia case confirmed during the  hours before noon on Monday?by the Shanghai Health Commission. The city has reported a total of  confirmed cases as of noon?on Monday, including  patients in stable condition, eight in critical condition, one in intensive care,  cured and discharged from the hospital, and three deaths. Currently, there are  people under medical quarantine and observation  of them traveled to Shanghai from overseas.