Shanghai to build worldclass public health emergency system
2020-04-08 14:03
A health researcher shows a program, newly launched by Shanghai East Hospital of Tongji University and Stermirna Therapeutics Co, to develop an mRNA vaccine targeting the novel coronavirus, in Shanghai, Jan , . PhotoXinhua    Shanghai will strive to establish a worldclass public health emergency system, according to a guideline released by the municipal government on Wednesday. The guideline, which is aimed at improving the citys public health emergency system as well as its emergency response to epidemics by , came after the citys announcement that it would build a worldclass public health system. On Tuesday, Shanghais Party Secretary Li Qiang pointed out at a conference that the construction of an excellent public health system in a megacity like Shanghai is an extremely important and urgent task as it is related to peoples wellbeing, economic development and social stability. Shanghai should not only consolidate its current achievements, but also focus on improving the system and mechanism of major epidemic prevention and the public health emergency management in the long term, Li said. Zong Ming, vicemayor of Shanghai, attributed the citys success in curbing the spread of COVID to a highly centralized and unified management system, application of digital and intelligent science to pinpoint potential public health threats, and a sound emergency response system. We are planning on building a public health emergency command center and we hope more thinktanks will be involved in the process, Zong said on Wednesday during a news conference in Shanghai. Zhang Wenhong, director of Huashan Hospitals department of infectious disease, also said at the conference that Shanghai has responded well to the pandemic, but a more comprehensive network will enhance the citys capability to deal with similar emergencies in the future. We have responded well to SARS, HN and HN because of our highly efficient urban management. Every time an epidemic occurs, we gain some experience and see the need to update our prevention and control system. The more complete we are, the less we will lose track of infection cases, Zhang said.