Shanghai tightens coldchain transport control to fight COVID
2020-12-08 08:48
A worker disinfects packaged coldchain food to be exhibited at the third China International Import Expo in Shanghai on Oct , . Photo provided to China Daily    SHANGHAI  The Shanghai municipality has strengthened port, airport, and coldchain transport control to fight against COVID, authorities said on Monday. Apart from a series of documents issued for the prevention and control of the epidemic, the citys commission of transport released a guideline on Nov.  to prevent infections caused by personnel as well as goods at the Shanghai Port, Liu Bin, deputy director of the commission, said at a press conference. During port operations, crew members should be under special management for epidemic control. Port workers should regularly undergo nucleic acid testing, disinfect the working environment and receive closedoff management, Liu said. An airport regulation for COVID control was also released, which requires full coverage of prevention and control measures in both cargo and passenger transport sectors. Liu said cargo terminals would have qualified thirdparty companies for disinfection, subject to related procedures. The control of coldchain transportation also improved, said Liu. According to Liu, the city has a total of , companies engaged in coldchain transport. Sun Xiaodong, deputy director of the Shanghai Center for Disease Control and Prevention, said among the six locallytransmitted COVID cases diagnosed between Nov.  and , four worked at two logistics companies at the Shanghai Pudong International Airport, and the other two were the wives of two of them. Epidemiological surveys showed two of the workers had been exposed to the cabin environment or the crew members of cargo flights from overseas, and the others were all their close contacts. According to the press conference, a residential community in Zhuqiao Township of Pudong New Area, where no new COVID cases have been reported for  days, will be adjusted as a lowrisk area on Tuesday. It will bring the number of mediumrisk areas of the city to zero.