Shanghai leads global robot industry with sales boom
2021-01-04 16:25
A staff member demonstrates Gbased remote control of a robot during the  World Artificial Intelligence Conference in East Chinas Shanghai, on Aug , . PhotoXinhua    As one of the biggest robot manufacturing hubs in China, Shanghai takes the lead with onethird of national output, and the citys robot industry has grown into an important pillar to boost technological innovation and real economy, said Han Dadong, the director of smart manufacturing division at Shanghai Economy and Information Commission, reported Securities Times. Robot sector, a crucial field in highend manufacturing, gauges a countrys innovation and scientific research capability. And China, the worlds largest robot market, accounts for around onethird of global robot output. Although the COVID pandemic hurt robot production and sales across the country, leading companies such as Shanghai STEP Electric Corporation and SIASUN Co Ltd in Shanghai have tided over difficulties and made significant progress in , Han said. STEP Electric, the elevator control system and industrial robot manufacturer set up in , made breakthroughs in motion control algorithms last year and saw net profit reaching . million yuan in first three quarters of , a yearonyear increase of . percent, Ji Yi, president of the companys chairwoman, told Jiefang Daily. Although foreign demand dropped last year, domestic market continued to unleash its vitality, said Yang Li, president of SIASUN. The company eyed exploring diversified application scenarios of robots to promote sales. Major battlefields of the company have turned to industrial robot application in automotive OEMs, flexible chips production lines and medical surgeries, he said. At the beginning of December, ShanghaiFanuc Robotics launched the construction of phase III factory in Shanghai, covering an area of  mu . hectares and total investment of . billion yuan. After completion, the annual output value is expected to reach  billion yuan. Besides industrial robots, service robots sales also saw explosive growth, especially those applied in medical, business and educations scenarios. CloudMinds Technology developed a series of smart robots for epidemic prevention and control, such as patrol robots, cleaning and disinfection robot and transportation robots, which were widely used in the temporary hospitals in Wuhan during the outbreak. Dai Liu, chairman of Shanghai Robot Industry Association, said service robot is imbued with the technology from both highend manufacturing and artificial intelligence. Chinas service robot sector is to welcome a year golden period in line with the development of AI, he said. In November, Pudong in Shanghai rolled out plans to promote the highquality development of robot sector. A robot valley and an industrial park are to set up in Zhangjiang and Jinqiao, covering . and . square kilometers, respectively. By , Pudong is expected to grow into a national robot highland with industrial scale reaching  billion yuan, according to Shanghai government.