Xi vows more cooperation internationally to control rapid spread of disease
2020-03-21 07:10
President Xi Jinping meets with his Russian counterpart Vladimir Putin in Brasilia, capital of Brazil, on Nov , . PhotoXinhua    China vows closer international cooperation with Russia and other countries to control the novel coronavirus pneumonia pandemic, which experts say further demonstrates its vision of building a community with a shared future for mankind. In a phone conversation on Thursday night with his Russian counterpart, Vladimir Putin, President Xi Jinping said that the epidemic broke out ferociously, and China had to rise to the challenge and respond to it bravely. That is because it not only concerns the lives and health of the Chinese people but also the public health security of the whole world, he said, calling for closer international cooperation in epidemic prevention and control, experience sharing on containment and treatment and facilitation of joint research. Xi stressed that at this special moment when both countries are fighting the illness, China and Russia have been supporting each other and cooperating closely, which has demonstrated the high level of ChinaRussia relations in the new era. Putin said that remarkably effective measures taken by the Chinese government have not only contained the spread of the disease inside China but also made important contributions to safeguarding the health of people in other countries. Russia greatly appreciates and is pleased with Chinas efforts, he said, adding that China has set a good example for the international community by lending a helping hand to other pandemicaffected countries in a timely manner. What China has done represents a resounding answer to the provocation and stigmatization by a certain country over COVID, the Russian president said. Li Yonghui, a researcher of Russian studies at the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences, said that the virus can be defeated only by concerted efforts. Joint efforts such as cooperation in vaccine development, providing assistance across borders and sharing of epidemic information are a reflection of the connotation of the vision of a community with a shared future for mankind, Li said. Ruan Zongze, executive vicepresident of the China Institute of International Studies, said the pandemic further enhances the global communitys understanding of this vision. The epidemic concerns peoples health and lives, regardless of borders or skin color. The most powerful weapon against it is solidarity and cooperation, Ruan said. The Chinese government has announced it would provide assistance, including testing kits, masks and protective suits, to  countries, and the World Health Organization and the African Union, with many shipments having already arrived in recipient countries. China is practicing its vision with actual deeds by providing assistance within its ability to other countries, Ruan said, and this will further improve and enhance Chinas relationship with international society. Meanwhile, a certain country that is trying to politicize the pandemic, label the virus and stigmatize China is running into opposition from the global community and such attempts are contemptible, Ruan added.