Xi vows closer ties with Ghana, Mongolia
2020-07-06 07:21
File photo shows Chinese President Xi Jinping holding a welcome ceremony for Ghanas President Nana AkufoAddo before their talks at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing, capital of China, Sept , . PhotoXinhua    China will deepen cooperation with Ghana in various fields under the joint construction of the Belt and Road and within the framework of the Forum on ChinaAfrica Cooperation. President Xi Jinping made the remark in an exchange of congratulatory messages on Sunday with his Ghanaian counterpart, Nana Addo Dankwa AkufoAddo, on the th anniversary of the establishment of ChinaGhana diplomatic relations. In his message, Xi said he highly values developing bilateral ties and is willing to work with AkufoAddo to take the th anniversary as an opportunity to carry forward traditional friendship in order to benefit the two countries and their peoples and contribute to the building of a closer ChinaAfrica community with a shared future. Over the past six decades, the traditional friendship between China and Ghana has grown stronger with practical cooperation yielding fruitful results, Xi said. Bilateral relations have shown a good momentum for allround development in recent years, bringing tangible benefits to both peoples, he added. The president noted that China and African countries, including Ghana, have stood by each other in the joint fight against the COVID pandemic since its outbreak, which has demonstrated their brotherly friendship. As of Sunday, the pandemic had caused more than , deaths in Africa with over , people being infected, according to the Africa Centres for Disease Control and Prevention. In his message, AkufoAddo said that Xi has shown extraordinary leadership in response to the COVID pandemic, and China has won worldwide acclaim for its antiepidemic assistance and support to countries around the world, including Ghana. Deepening cooperation Xi, who is also general secretary of the Communist Party of China Central Committee, has also exchanged messages with Ukhnaa Khurelsukh, chairman of the ruling Mongolian Peoples Party and prime minister of Mongolia, according to a news release published on Saturday. In the message, Xi said that the CPC is willing to strengthen exchanges and cooperation with the MPP to lead the ChinaMongolia comprehensive strategic partnership to greater development and contribute to regional peace and prosperity. Recalling that Khurelsukh sent a message to him recently on the occasion of the th founding anniversary of the CPC, Xi said it fully demonstrated the great importance Khurelsukh and the MPP attach to relations between the two parties and countries. China is ready to strengthen antiepidemic exchanges and cooperation with Mongolia and other countries, and jointly build a community of health for all, he said. In a previous letter to Xi, Khurelsukh said that Chinas fight against COVID has not only safeguarded the health of the Chinese people, but also made great contributions to protecting the health of people around the world, which he deeply admires.