Services trade fair coming to Beijing casts wide net
2020-07-24 14:11
A D printer displayed at a China Beijing International Fair for Trade in Services attracts the attention of visitors. File photo by Wang Zhuangfei  China Daily    More than , businesses and organizations from  countries and regions have confirmed that they will participate in the China International Fair for Trade in Services, to be held in Beijing in September, the events organizers said on Thursday. Under the theme Global Services, Shared Prosperity, this years CIFTIS will be held both online and offline, with one general exhibition and eight featured exhibitions on a wide range of subjects including cultural services, financial services, winter sports, tourism and education. This years CIFTIS will open a new public health and epidemic prevention section to display products and technologies for COVID testing, treatment, contact tracing and logistics. This section will also showcase applications of traditional Chinese medicine in epidemic control. As the worlds largest service trade fair, CIFTIS has been held six times and helped close deals worth more than  billion. Exhibitors from around the world will showcase their latest products, technologies, services and business solutions through onsite exhibitions and online displays. There will be forums, conferences, workshops and other supporting activities in parallel with the exhibitions. The cultural services exhibition will highlight the development of Beijings cultural sector, media, industrial parks and the rich cultures of countries involved in the Belt and Road Initiative. The financial services exhibition will capture new trends in international trade and financial services and introduce Chinas reform and openingup in the financial sector. The winter sports exhibition will touch on the merger of sports with technology, culture, finance and tourism. The tourism service exhibition will publish a guideline on tourism recovery and development in light of the COVID pandemic and discuss future developments for the industry.