Services trade enjoys big boost from expo
2020-09-22 10:11
New DNA testing equipment on display at the China International Fair for Trade in Services in Beijing on Sept . Photo by?Zhao YadanChina News Service    Event in Beijing helps promote international economic cooperation and ushers in enhanced sustainable development Themed Global Services, Shared Prosperity, the  China International Fair for Trade in Services showcased new technologies and innovations in the services sector that are expected to reshape peoples lives for the better, with displays ranging from stateofart service robots to G applications in cloud booths. The sixday event held earlier this month in Beijing was the first major international economic and trade event held both online and offline by China since the COVID outbreak. As one of the worlds largest and most comprehensive fairs for trade in services, CIFTIS attracted , enterprises and institutions from  countries and regions, including  Fortune  companies. A total of  deals were signed, said the Ministry of Commerce. The fair focused on the forefront of science and technology innovation by displaying applications of new infrastructure, artificial intelligence, G technology applications, big data and service robots. Special exhibition areas and forums dealt with the integration and development of financial science and technology, digital economys efforts to promote transformation as well as empowering traditional industries with advanced technology. In total, it hosted  forums and business presentations covering  major sectors such as transport, travel, construction, insurance, financial services, telecommunications, computer and cultural services. The service economy, supported by new infrastructure and represented by online services, is activating the momentum of development in various fields and becoming the most dynamic part of economic growth, said ViceCommerce Minister Wang Bingnan at the fair. The fair received . million views on its official website, and . million views on its official mobile app. A total of , domestic and overseas enterprises set up online booths, among which , were displayed in three dimensions, according to Xinhua News Agency. More than  reports, indexes and rankings were published during the event, with  enterprises and institutions releasing their latest achievements, technologies and service solutions.