Xi stresses key role of G
2020-03-27 06:50
President Xi Jinping speaks during the G Extraordinary Leaders Summit on COVID on Thursday. The president participated in the summit, which was in the form of a videoconference, at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing.?LI XUERENPANG XINGLEIXINHUA    China will offer as much assistance as possible in global battle against virus Members of the G should enhance their coordination in macroeconomic policies to prevent a global recession resulting from the novel coronavirus outbreak, President Xi Jinping said on Thursday. Xi made the remark while delivering a speech during the G Extraordinary Leaders Summit on COVID. The summit, in the form of a videoconference, is the first of its kind under the G framework. Noting that novel coronavirus pneumonia is spreading around the world, Xi said that the international community should boost its confidence, make joint efforts and enhance international cooperation to strive for victory in mankinds battle against the pandemic. The G countries should implement powerful and effective fiscal and monetary policies, enhance coordination on financial supervision and jointly maintain the stability of the global industrial chain, he said. Xi pledged that China will make greater efforts to supply medicine, daily necessities and disease prevention materials to the global market. In order to make a contribution to stabilizing the global economy, he said, China will continue to carry out a proactive fiscal policy and stable monetary policy, promote reform and openingup steadily, ease market access, improve the business environment, increase imports and expand outbound investment. The president called on G members to take joint measures, including reducing tariffs, removing trade barriers and promoting free trade, to send a strong signal to boost the global economy. China, which upholds the concept of building a community with a shared future for mankind, would like to share its experience in disease prevention and control with other countries, launch joint research and development of medicines and vaccines, and offer as much assistance as possible to countries that are affected by the disease, Xi said. The virus knows no borders and the epidemic is the common enemy of all, Xi said, adding that the international community should join forces to build a joint prevention and control network. China has established an online knowledge center on the prevention and control of novel coronavirus pneumonia, and the center is open to all countries, he added. China supports the World Health Organization playing a leading role in setting scientific prevention and control measures and preventing the crossborder spread of the disease, Xi said. The G members should enhance the sharing of information on disease prevention and control, promote comprehensive and effective methods for disease prevention and control and hold highlevel meetings on global public health, he said. Xi said that China will remember and cherish the friendship shown when it was in difficulty and some other countries offered sincere help and support. Wang Yiwei, director of the Institute of International Affairs at Renmin University of China, said that the special summit is the most important multilateral event since the outbreak of the disease because the pandemic has led to a global public health crisis unprecedented in the past century.