Scenic spots start reopening, cautiously
2020-03-03 07:41
A visitor takes pictures at Baotu Spring Park in Jinan, Shandong province. Some popular attractions in regions with a lower risk of infection have gradually reopened to the public. ZHU ZHENGXINHUA Scenic spots across China are reopening as the novel coronavirus comes increasingly under control in the country. A dozen attractions in southwestern Chinas Guizhou province have resumed accepting visitors since late February, and more will follow, according to the provincial culture and tourism authority. We have been sanitizing all public areas three times a day, says Li Jing, a manager at Fengqi Hotel in Guizhous Tongren city. All workers are required to wear protective gear, and all visitors will receive bodytemperature checks before entering, Li says. The hotel is  kilometers away from the popular Fanjingshan scenic spot and is the biggest of its kind in the area. Usually, the hotels income increases by about  percent during the Spring Festival golden week, says Li. The epidemic is expected to cause the hotel to lose  million yuan ,, including , yuan worth of bookings from before it had to close. Only a few guests have come since the reopening, Li says. Local governments should approve the reopening of popular attractions in regions with a lower risk of infection. And those in highrisk areas should remain closed for now, says Liu Kezhi, a senior official with the Ministry of Culture and Tourisms market regulation department. More than  wellknown scenic spots nationwide were open as of Feb , major online travel agency Ctrip reports. They include the Longmen Grottoes in Luoyang, Henan province, and the Changbai Mountains in Jilin province. A total of  scenic spots and parks in Nanjing, Jiangsu province, have resumed operations since Feb , including the City Wall and the Sun Yatsen Mausoleum. West Lake in Hangzhou, Zhejiang province, has allowed tourists to enter at different times from Feb , and is operating at less than half of its travelerreception capacity. Groups must have fewer than  members. And all guests must wear facemasks. Over  Arated scenic spots in Hangzhou have reopened so far. To date, more than  closed scenic spots nationwide have worked with Ctrip to offer presales with preferential rates. But those destinations account for only a sliver of the more than , scenic spots in the country. Ctrip tells tourists to follow protection guidelines and cooperate with attractions management, since its still a critical time for epidemic control and prevention. The travel agency will keep close contact with scenic spots to offer quality products and services, says Fang Hongfeng, a senior official with the company. Central and local authorities are racing to ease the sectors financial strain. Chinas tourism regulator has decided to return  percent of security deposits for tourismservice quality to registered travel agencies. As of Feb , , travel agencies had applied for the returns, accounting for  percent of agencies nationwide, Liu says. A total of . billion yuan was returned. The taxation watchdog extended the maximum carryover period for tourism players losses incurred in . At the same time, Chinas culture and tourism authority has urged scenic areas to take stringent epidemiccontrol measures when resuming operations. Some scenic spots saw crowds of tourists after a dozen provinciallevel regions lowered their epidemic emergencyresponse levels. A large number of tourists flocked to the Fragrant Hills in suburban Beijing on Feb  and , triggering concerns about contagion. Its management bureau later shut down the indoor areas and closed five parking lots to limit visitor inflows. On Feb , the Culture and Tourism Ministry issued guidelines that require realname ticketing along with tourists contact and transportation information. They encourage full use of big data technology to keep track of realtime tourist information during the ongoing epidemic control and prevention. The ministry also requires scenic spots to monitor and report their employees health conditions and enhance hygiene and epidemic control at major sites. Venues or activities that could draw large crowds should remain shut down. Currently, over , scenic spots offer free access to medical workers as a gesture of gratitude for their efforts and sacrifices on the front line. They span nearly  cities and a range of themes, including natural wonders, heritage sites, theme parks, museums and cruise liners. We believe our business will recover up to  percent stepbystep in the second quarter, Li says. He expects a boom in the summer vacation and that things will be back to normal in the fourth quarter. Contact the writers at yangfeiyuecom.cn Xinhua contributed to the story