Rural workers getting back to their jobs
2020-04-02 07:48
A worker is busy with her job in a wedding dress factory in Huichang county, Jiangxi province, on March . The factory employs workers from poor families.?ZHU HAIPENGFOR CHINA DAILY    Migrants finding fresh employment as coronavirus outbreak under control More than  million rural workers in  provincial regions have returned to their jobs as the novel coronavirus outbreak has abated in China, according to the State Council Leading Group Office of Poverty Alleviation and Development. Some . million of them are from the  counties labeled as impoverished, according to Wang Chunyan, deputy director of the offices general department. They account for  percent of last years migrant workers in the  counties, she told a daily news conference in Beijing. Wu Hua, deputy head of the offices department of development guidance, said the progress has instilled momentum into the national poverty relief work that aims to end absolute poverty before . Migrant workers can be found in a large percentage of rural families still mired in poverty or those who have recently shaken it off. Twothirds of their income comes from earnings from working outside, Wu said. The developments came as the central authorities have prioritized the employment of rural workers as well as efforts to make sure they do not get laid off amid the epidemic. As of March , local authorities have arranged chartered buses and trains for . million migrant workers returning to work, according to Wu. But he noted that an estimated  million have yet to return to their posts at factories or construction sites. We will actively give them guidance and create conditions for them to resume work as soon as possible, he said. Apart from travel restrictions that prevented migrant workers from reaching their jobs, the novel coronavirus also disrupted logistics chains at the height of the outbreak, leading to the lackluster sales of farm produce and threatening to push many back into poverty. To reduce the impact, Wang said her department, along with several other government agencies, have launched a campaign to promote the consumption of farm produce from impoverished regions. A circular was issued on Feb  to help identify poverty relief products, so that businesses and government agencies in betteroff regions can help promote the sales of such products. Wu said  provinces in central and western provinces have identified , such products worth more than . billion yuan . billion as of March , involving , suppliers scattered across some , counties. Nine eastern provinces have purchased farm produce worth more than . billion yuan, he said, adding the farmers dilemma has generally been relieved. To shake off poverty, farmers need to prove they have access to safe housing and clean drinking water, among other requirements. But the novel coronavirus has disrupted many projects to that end. Wu said there are around , projects in  provincial regions in the west, and ,, or  percent, have resumed construction.