Rural income continues its upward climb, shrinking gap
2020-10-28 08:55
Villagers work in the fields in Aba Tibetan and Qiang autonomous prefecture in Sichuan province on July , . Photo by Zhao YuanpingFor China Daily    Growth rate of earnings has been higher than that of urban residents for  yearsRural earnings have been rising steadily in China, and the wealth gap between rural and urban residents is narrowing, Liu Huanxin, viceminister of agriculture and rural affairs, said on Tuesday. In the first three quarters of this year, the disposable income for rural residents averaged , yuan ,, a . percent increase over the previous year after adjustment for inflation, according to Liu. The growth rate for the quarter is expected to continue to rise, and rural people will get a stronger sense of gain and happiness as we are nearing the goal of building a moderately prosperous society, he said at a news conference held by the State Council Information Office. In , the central government first put forward the goal of doubling rural income from  to . By the end of last year, the annual disposable income for rural residents exceeded , yuan, marking the completion of the goal a year ahead of the schedule. The growth rate of rural earnings has been higher than that of urban incomes for  straight years, Liu added. As a result, the urban to rural income ratio shrank from . in before the th FiveYear Plan  was releasedto . in , according to Liu. In addition to increased income, rural people in China have had access to cleaner living environments and improved infrastructure in the past five years, according to officials. Wu Hongyao, a senior official with the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Affairs, said over  percent of villages in China are equipped with standard toilets, and over  million rural households have seen their toilets upgraded since . In the meantime, more than  percent of villages can dispose of their domestic garbage through a uniform collection system. Nearly all of the , substandard garbage dumps detected through a nationwide inspection have been rectified, he added. In terms of advancing the development of modern agriculture, Liu said, the central government invested a total of . trillion yuan from  to September  into fixed assets in the farming, forestry, animal husbandry and fishing industries. To offset the impact of the COVID epidemic, the ministry also urged local governments to increase the scale of special bonds invested in rural areas, according to Liu. From January to September, a sum of  billion yuan in special government bonds was issued, effectively broadening avenues for rural financing, he added. As the country is now drafting the development plan for rural areas in the next five years, Liu said, a slew of fundamental, sustainable and strategic agriculture projects will be initiated. He added that the plan will focus on the modern seed industry, storage, coldchain and logistic facilities, animal disease prevention and control, as well as the use of new information technologies to boost development of rural areas.