Ruili announces lockdown to curb spread of virus
2021-07-08 07:00
Ruili, a border city in Southwest Chinas Yunnan province, locked down its main urban areas beginning at midnight on Tuesday. PhotoCCTV.com    Ruili, a border city in Southwest Chinas Yunnan province, announced a lockdown in its main urban areas, beginning at midnight on Tuesday, after the city reported  new confirmed and locally transmitted COVID cases and two locallytransmitted asymptomatic carriers. Residents are required to stay at home, and most businesses must suspend operations. Jiegao, a border community, where all the infections were found, became Chinas only highrisk area for COVID starting at  am on Wednesday, according to local authorities. As of Tuesday, Ruili had  confirmed, locally transmitted cases and two locallytransmitted asymptomatic carriers. All  cases reported on Tuesday, involving people from China as well as Myanmar, were detected during citywide nucleic acid testing after the first infections in the local were reported on Sunday. The  were sent to a designated hospital for treatment. The result of gene sequencing for seven of the positive samples showed they were highly similar to the Delta variant of the coronavirus found in neighboring countries, said Zhai Yulong, Party secretary of Ruili, at a news conference on Wednesday. Ruilis main urban areas and Wanding town launched a new round of nucleic acid testing at  am on Wednesday. All residents in the citys main urban areas, which have a population of about ,, were under quarantine at home. Schools and training institutions suspended classes, and places of business, except for some supermarkets, wet markets, hospitals and pharmacies, were closed. Restaurants are allowed to provide takeout service only, and residents can order daily necessities from online ecommerce platforms. A total of  sites were established to offer vegetables, meat, eggs and fruit to surrounding residents, he said. Residents were asked to check their body temperature in the morning and at night and to report to their community if they have symptoms such as fever, a cough or sore throat. The city will send more people to patrol populated areas and major traffic routes. It will strengthen efforts to crack down on smuggling of people and goods. The management of communities and foreigners will also be tightened. In addition, market supplies will be guaranteed and social stability will be maintained, according to the citys epidemic prevention and control headquarters. Muran Gangxiang, , who works in the citys Youyi community, said three to four workers now serve  to  families. The workers go door to door each day, visiting residents and gathering information, such as how many people are in the household, whether there are people from outside the community, and whether people have been tested for the virus and vaccinated. He said the epidemic control work is carried out in an orderly manner, thanks to efficient and intelligent grassroots management resulting from the citys experiences during outbreaks in September and March. Before, community workers had to handwrite information during the conducting of nucleic acid testing. Now the information is uploaded on an app, which is more convenient and efficient, he said. He added that community workers and residents also established friendships and actively support epidemic control measures. Only by a joint effort from all people can we overcome the outbreak. He was one of  government workers that the Dehong Dai and Jingpo autonomous prefecture, which administers Ruili, sent to Ruilis  villages or communities in May to strengthen epidemic control and prevention efforts. More grassroots workers are helping in such ways as delivering goods to residents and promoting local policies. Zhang Sijiu, Party secretary of the Youyi community, visited Gao Yinglin, an elderly woman who lives alone in the community, on Tuesday. She told Yunnan News Broadcast that she wanted to promote knowledge about epidemic control. I told Gao that the virus is not horrible and all you need to do is selfprotection. I also told her that she can call us whenever she needs to. The community sent workers to help her with the nucleic acid testing on Monday afternoon. I have been tested six times this year, and the community workers picked me up every time, Gao said. Zhang added that the community has gathered information on all elderly people who live alone and will send them face masks and help them clean their homes. ?