Resurgence may have limited impact on economy
2021-08-16 07:26
A medical worker administers a dose of COVID vaccine for a student at a vaccination site in Nanchang, capital of East Chinas Jiangxi province, Aug , . Nanchang recently started COVID vaccination for minors aged between  and . PhotoXinhua    Concerns over a resurgence of novel coronavirus infections and the high transmissibility of the Delta variant have escalated rapidly since late July. That said, China has made substantial progress in vaccination since April. China had administered more than . billion vaccine doses by early August, equivalent to . times the yearsorabove population. In particular, China accelerated daily vaccinations from midJuly after new infections were reported from some parts of the country. While uncertainty remains, we at Standard Chartered Bank think the impact of the new COVID infections on Chinas economy is likely to be limited, because more than  provinces have swiftly reimplemented stringent prevention and control measures to contain the spread of the Delta variant and the vaccination rate in the country has gained additional pace since April. Also, the authorities have further accelerated daily vaccinations since midJuly to ensure the spread of the Delta variant is contained as soon as possible. And governments at different levels, companies and people have become more experienced in maintaining business continuity amid the COVID epidemic. Our study suggests that in case of a mild new outbreak, which is combated with effective containment measures, and only a short period of lockdownsuch as in the third quarter of  and the first quarter of the negative impact is likely to be .. percent of quarterly GDP, or .. percent of annual GDP. Under this scenario, the lost output could be fully recovered in the subsequent quarter depending on the mix of domestic policy settings and global demand. For example, after a brief COVID outbreak in the third quarter of , which caused a loss of . percent of potential GDP, Chinas economy rebounded to . percent above its potential level in the fourth quarter, driven by policy stimulus, pentup demand and strong exports. In case of a mild outbreak, additional policy stimulus needed to achieve  percent annual GDP growth should be no more than . percent of annual GDP, according to our estimate. If the impact of a COVID resurgence is as severe as that in the first quarter of when facetoface activity and crossregional travel largely came to a halt for almost two months in FebruaryMarchthe negative impact could amount to about  percent of quarterly GDP, or  percent of annual GDP, and additional policy stimulus needed to achieve  percent annual growth would increase to about . percent of annual GDP. While the overall impact of a new outbreak on GDP may be limited, a severe COVID outbreak will have a vastly different impact on various industries. Our analysis shows that the accommodation and catering, automobile, mining, electrical and equipment manufacturing, and wine and beverage sectors are likely to suffer most amid a severe COVID outbreak. However, the negative impact on electrical, equipment and automobile manufacturing is likely to be transitory. And the postpandemic recovery process should also see the textile, chemical product, information technology, real estate, pharmaceutical and finance industries outperforming. The author is a senior economist at Standard Chartered Bank. The views dont necessarily reflect those of China Daily.