Response downgraded, but battle goes on
2020-02-27 07:02
Fan Zhongjie teaches a patient to do a pulmonary rehabilitation exercise. He said, The patients are the real heroes, not our medics, because they are the ones who fight the virus facetoface, with their bodies as the battlefield. Photo by Chen ZhuoFor chinadaily.com.cn    As of Wednesday,  provinciallevel regions had downgraded their public health emergency response level in the fight against the novel coronavirus. Guizhou, Yunnan, Qinghai, Gansu and Liaoning provinces and the Guangxi Zhuang and Inner Mongolia autonomous regions have downgraded their response from level  to  and Shanxi, Jiangsu, Sichuan, Anhui, Guangdong provinces and Xinjiang Uygur autonomous region from level  to . The changes signal the epidemic has become less severe in these places. If the level is lowered from  to , it means emergency response work will no longer be directed by the State Council, Chinas Cabinet, but by the provinciallevel government. If it is lowered from  to , it means the response will now be directed by the prefecturelevel government. In the provinciallevel regions that have lowered the emergency response level, the epidemic situation has gradually stabilized, with many regions reporting no new confirmed infections for several days. Gansu, which changed its emergency response to level , recorded no new confirmed cases and just two deaths between Feb  and Sunday. Liaoning and Guizhou have reported no fresh infections since Feb  and only one and two deaths respectively. After downgrading their emergency response levels, these regions can gradually resume industrial production and reopen markets. During a recent meeting, President Xi Jinping said that as the epidemic situation improves, regions that meet certain conditions should downgrade their response level and promote production. However, downgrading the response levels does not mean one can breathe easy, as the turning point is still to come. If new infection cases are still seen nationwide, the epidemic prevention and control work must go on. XIAKEDAO, A WECHAT ACCOUNT OF PEOPLES DAILY OVERSEAS EDITION