Residents bravely accept lockdown
2020-03-05 06:37
The landmark Huanghelou historical site, also known as the Yellow Crane Tower, stands deserted in Wuhan.Photo by Wang JingChina Daily     Approach adopted in Wuhan helps contain outbreak? Editors note Novel coronavirus pneumonia is posing a worldwide threat. Here, we take a look at how China is playing its role in the global fight against the outbreak by mobilizing vast resources to contain the epidemic. This is the second part of a series titled United Actions. Ye Qing, who has lived in Wuhan, Hubei province, for more than  years, decided to keep a diary to record the unprecedented lockdown placed on the city. It was no joke, he wrote on Jan , the day the decision to seal off the epicenter of the novel coronavirus pneumonia outbreak was announced and enforced. Like most of the  million people in Wuhan at the time, Ye found out about the lockdown when he woke in the morning because the decision was announced at  am. Starting at  am that day, services at the citys airport, railway station, ferry ports and longdistance bus stations were suspended. Later, highway entrances and exits were sealed off. Leading infectious disease expert Zhong Nanshan confirmed on Jan  that there was a risk of persontoperson transmission from the virus. However, Ye, deputy head of the Hubei Statistics Bureau, said many locals complained about the sudden decision to introduce the lockdown because they thought the epidemic was not serious enough for such a dramatic measure. By midnight on Tuesday, of the , cases in China, , were from Wuhan. Of the , deaths, , were from the city, according to the National Health Commission. Early cases of infection identified in Wuhan are believed to have acquired infection from a zoonotic sourcea disease that can be spread from animals to humansas many patients had visited or were working at the Huanan Seafood Wholesale Market. As of Feb , the animal source had still to be identified. The central government has made it clear that without containing the epidemic in Wuhan and Hubei, it cannot win the war against the virus.