Report Chinas sharing economy has good longterm prospects
2020-03-04 15:20
Sharedbike riders cycle past the Tiananmen Tower in Beijing, Dec , . Photo by Zou Hongchinadaily.com.cn    Amid the novel coronavirus epidemic, the growth rate of Chinas sharing economy will decline around  to  percent in , and catch up again in the next two years, according to a report issued on Wednesday. The report from the State Information Center, a government think tank, forecast the annual compound growth rate of the countrys sharing economy sector in the coming three years will remain between  and  percent. In , the transaction volume in Chinas sharing economy sector totaled . trillion yuan . billion, up . percent yearonyear. Direct investment declined by . percent yearonyear to . billion yuan. The sector underwent deep adjustment and integration in . Due to a variety of factors, such as increasing downward pressure on both the domestic and international macroeconomies, direct financing in the sector dropped and the sectors growth slowed down, said Yu Fengxia, deputy director of the Sharing Economy Research Center under the SIC. According to SICs report, in the short term the COVID outbreak that occurred at the beginning of this year affected various subcategories in the sharing economy sector. Thanks to users migration online of their consumption activities, fields including shared healthcare, online education and food delivery experienced spikes in traffic and transaction volume. Meanwhile, fields such as shared accommodation, transportation and housekeeping witnessed decreasing orders and sharply dropping sales revenue, as their business requires relatively high online and offline integration and offline purchase activities. Yu noted from the longterm perspective, opportunities accompany challenges in the development of the sector. In the fight against the epidemic, internetbased technologies are being applied in various fields, and peoples online consumption habits are being better cultivated. Industrial internet, an important basis of shared manufacturing, welcomes new development opportunities, as the requirement of attaching equal importance to epidemic prevention and control and development forces new business sectors to accelerate innovation, she added. The epidemic impact will only last for the short run. Once the epidemic ends, the sharing economy sector will be rejuvenated, Yu said. Wang Liantao, cofounder of Chinese vacation rental company Xiaozhu Inc, said in the long term, we are still confident in the industry. Although the epidemic had a knockon effect on the accommodation industry, it offers us an opportunity to upgrade the platform and improve our services. The market will definitely clear, however, they dont think the epidemic will change the capital market and business development logic in the long run, Wang added. According to SIC, in  market competition will become more intense and the pace of industry restructuring will also accelerate. Reducing costs and increasing efficiency will become the primary choice for platform companies business strategies. Whether enterprises can bring better experiences and more value to users becomes the key to winning the competition, it said.