Regulators must raise guard against hot money inflows
2021-06-08 07:26
A worker counts Chinese currency renminbi at a bank in Linyi, East Chinas Shandong province. PhotoXinhua    Chinas commodity and stock markets have turned largely bullish and are attracting a lot of speculative money. The countrys regulators have been paying great attention to the possibility of hot money disrupting the domestic market. Liang Tao, vicechairman of the China Banking and Insurance Regulatory Commission, said the monitoring system for crossborder capital flows should be improved to prevent largescale inflows and outflows of hot money from disturbing emerging markets. Yi Huiman, chairman of the China Securities Regulatory Commission, had earlier said that China welcomes the normal crossborder flow of capital, but warned against the harmful effects of increased inflow and outflow of hot money. Foreign investors attach great importance to Chinas financial market because they remain optimistic about its stability and of Chinese enterprises profit prospects. After the outbreak of the novel coronavirus, China has been the first major economy to register positive growth thanks to effective epidemic prevention and control. Many foreign investors remain optimistic about Chinas development prospects. However, there are also speculative foreign investors and institutions who chase some good stocks in Chinas Ashare market, which, together with the recent expectation of the yuans appreciation, makes Chinas financial market attractive. To prevent the risk of largescale inflow and outflow of hot money, China must effectively reduce the risk of financial assets. It should steadily promote the reform of the registration system for IPO issuance so that more domestic enterprises issue securities in accordance with marketbased principles, and ensure investors have more securities options. It should also channel more longterm domestic funds into the market, improve the shortselling mechanism, promote the return of stock values, enrich the toolbox for investors to avoid risks, and give play to the markets selfcorrection function. China also needs to improve the macroprudential management system and the regulatory framework for systemically important financial institutions, explore macroprudential management of crossborder capital flows, and deal with macro, countercyclical and crossmarket risks in a timely manner to prevent various financial risks.