Recovering expat loves China too much to leave
2020-02-26 09:15
Editors note In this new series, we share stories and experiences showing how expats are dealing with the novel coronavirus pneumonia outbreak.As various countries evacuate their citizens from China because of the novel coronavirus outbreak, some expats are saying thanks, but no thanks.I didnt want to be discharged from the hospital. I miss the friendliness there, said a yearold Pakistani physicist in Shenzhen, Guangdong province. On Feb , he became the first infected foreigner in the city to be declared free of the virus.He declined to give his name and asked to be called Ali.Ali, who has been in China since , is pursuing postdoctoral studies at Huazhong University of Science and Technology in Wuhan, the epicenter of the outbreak.In January, he arrived in Shenzhen to visit friends. Then he came down with a fever and went to a clinic for treatment.After a test for the novel coronavirus, he tested positive.Doctors urgently transferred him to Third Peoples Hospital of Shenzhen, the designated hospital for people infected with novel coronavirus. Because of language and cultural barriers, the doctors didnt explain much about the transfer, and he was anxious for a while.When I stood in the corridor of the hospital and waited for the medical staff to go through the transfer procedures, I still didnt quite understand what had happened. To be honest, I felt a lot of pressure, he said.Comforted by doctorAt Third Peoples Hospital, Ali calmed down with the help of Chen Jun, the doctor in charge of his treatment for  days. Chen speaks fluent English.He comforted me with a soft tone, and I felt better, Ali said.During his hospitalization, Ali felt a sense of warmth from everyone around him, even from the cleaning staff.They treated me like family, he said. Although I couldnt see the smiles on their masked faces, I could see smiles in their eyes.Every morning, a staff member surnamed Luo came into Alis ward and greeted him in English, which touched him.The patients like Luo. She has a kind manner and engages in casual daily chats, which are a great consolation, Chen said.A good mood helps patients recover. We find different ways to cheer them up, he said.For Ali, we set up a special WeChat group in which his professor and friends in China could console him.Ali spoke highly of Chens medical proficiency.The doctor and his team are very professional and excellent. They did a tremendous job in our treatment. They are the hope of many people.Treated like a localAfter leaving the hospital, Ali was asked to quarantine himself for two weeks, and he said he wanted to comply. The problem was that he had no accommodations in the city.Thats when Shenzhens municipal foreign affairs office stepped in, finding him a hotel room and arranging for Shenzhen University staff members to respond to his needs.Shenzhen has made every effort to prevent and control the epidemic. We treat foreigners, wherever they come from, like local citizens and take concrete steps to protect their health. We are happy to say that, as of Feb , all seven foreigners have recovered, said Cai Ying, chief of the foreign affairs office.I feel good now, Ali said. Every day, he gets up at  am, spends three hours exercising and then devotes himself to academic research.The staff is very attentive and prepares all my favorite foods for me, he said.Praying for WuhanAli received his doctorate and devotes his time to his favorite scientific research in Wuhan.Chinese people are so friendly. The friendship between China and Pakistan is deep. I love China so much. In five years, I only returned to Pakistan once.Ali wants to see Wuhans return to health soon.Every day I pray for Wuhan. I pray for China to get rid of the virus soon. I believe we will defeat the virus and win the war, he said.