Ready to lift anchor
2020-03-03 07:36
MSC Bellissima is still planned to arrive in China in June. CHINA DAILY All cruise companies have temporarily canceled voyages that start from Chinese homeports following the novel coronavirus outbreak, resulting in a suspension in the worlds secondlargest cruise market after the United States. Shanghais Wusongkou Cruise Port welcomed its last group of tourists on Jan , as they disembarked from a cruise thatd returned from Japan. Cruise ships can still anchor in the closed port for free. However, major overseas cruise companies remain confident in the Chinese markets potential. Chinese ports received  cruiseliner voyages carrying about . million inbound and outbound passengers in , according to the Annual Report on Chinas Cruise Industry . Wusongkou received nearly  percent of the tourists. Shanghai International Cruise Business Institutes deputy director Ye Xinliang estimates that some large cruise companies will lose  million to  billion yuan  million. million by the end of February, while some small operators will lose over  million yuan. Since Spring Festival, companies have arranged for customer service staffers to remain on duty to handle refunds and rescheduling requests in a timely manner. Theyre also optimizing onboard products and services in preparation for the resumption of voyages. And theyre providing online training for partner travel agencies about products and sales. The government is also offering support. Shanghais culture and tourism administration recently held an online conference with cruise companies to listen to their advice and adopt relevant measures. Costa Group Asias president Mario Zanetti says I believe that once the warm weather comes and the epidemic situation is controlled, demand for travel will return immediately. Our role is to continue to carry out the instructions and advice issued by the relevant government authorities and the World Health Organization to ensure a safe and comfortable cruise environment. Costa Cruises has increased crews publichealth training. And it will enhance sanitation and disinfection. For instance, all frequently touched surfaces in public areas will be disinfected at least three times a day. We are optimistic toward the development of the Chinese cruise economy and will continue to invest in the market, Zanetti says. Costa Cruises second ship customized for the Chinese marketthe Costa Firenzewill arrive by the end of , as scheduled. Its designed with the vision of providing an artistic Italian experience at sea. He believes the most important thing is to recover consumers confidence. Costa Cruises will work with industry partners toward this end once the outbreak is contained. A total of  of , passengers aboard the Diamond Princess were confirmed to have the virus, and six had died, as of Monday, after the ship returned to Yokohama, Japan, on Feb . The virus is believed to have spread quickly among passengers after the Japanese government ordered passengers to remain in onboard quarantine for two weeks. The ship was operated by Princess Cruises, which is owned by the USbased company, Carnival Corp.