Rapid action taken in city pays dividends
2020-04-14 08:58
Medical workers from across the country sign their names on the back of a volunteer before they leave Leishenshan Hospital in Wuhan, Hubei province, on March . WEI LAIFOR CHINA DAILY    Editors note Novel coronavirus pneumonia is posing a worldwide threat. Here, we take a look at how China is playing its role in the global fight against the outbreak by mobilizing a vast amount of resources. This is the eighth part of a series titled United Actions. Building a ,bed hospital in just  days to treat novel coronavirus patients in Wuhan, Hubei province, clearly impressed the host of a television show in the United States. On Jan , Trevor Noah, who presents The Daily Show, told viewers Ten days to build a hospital! Theres no other country that can do anything that fast. Noah was referring to Huoshenshan Hospital, or Fire God Mountain Hospital, a specialized facility for patients infected with the virus. It occupies , square meters in the western suburbs of Wuhan, the city hardest hit by the virus on the Chinese mainland. The project has been hailed as a miracle in Chinas fight against the contagion, together with Leishenshan Hospital, or Thunder God Mountain Hospital, in the citys Jiangxia district, which has , beds and was completed within  days. Chen Weiguo, who headed construction of the two hospitals, said completing them in such a short time initially appeared to be mission impossible, but his team had worked at record China speed. More than , workers from around the country, together with over , managers, worked roundtheclock in a race against time to build the hospitals to provide treatment for more patients, said Chen, president of Stateowned China Construction Third Engineering Bureau Co. The makeshift facilities, modeled on Xiaotangshan Hospital in Beijing, which was built in a week during the severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS, outbreak in , have played key roles in containing the outbreak in Wuhan.