Raising the volume for CSLs return
2020-07-23 09:57
Chinese Super League team Jiangsu Suning in blue stepped up preparations for a return to competitive action by playing a friendly against secondtier Taizhou Yuanda in Nanjing, May , . Photo provided to CHINA DAILY    Despite the absence of fans in the stands, the Chinese Super League wont lack for noise when it kicks off this weekend. Viewers at home will still experience an authentic matchday atmosphere thanks to the innovative use of virtual reality and G technology by the CSLs online broadcast partner, PP Sports. A series of online games, such as a cheering sounds battle, will inject some fun by encouraging viewers to up the volume, while fans will also have a chance to appear on the big screen at the stadium to cheer for their home team. As a longterm partner of the CSL, PP Sports has made many contributions during the leagues development throughout the years, said CSL general manager Dong Zheng. The CSL hopes to cooperate with PP Sports to produce highquality content for our fans so they can have a better experience enjoying the league matches. The  CSL season was originally scheduled to begin on Feb  until the COVID pandemic forced its postponement. So, guaranteeing the safety of everyone involved became a top priority when this years campaign was finally allowed to return. In a shortened campaign, matches will be contested in a roundrobin format followed by a knockout stage to decide the champion, AFC Champions League spots and relegation places. Devising a new competition format was very challenging, Dong added. We had to consider which matches were the key games and how this format could meet the demands of broadcasters. This years format is different to any other years before. And we must always prioritize the safety of everyone this season to prevent the spread of the coronavirus. So, before we confirmed the competition format, we first came up with the epidemic prevention regulations. All the firstphase matches, beginning on Saturday and ending on Sept , will be played in front of empty stands. Players, coaches and referees are required to stay in designated lockdown areas in the two host citiesDalian, Liaoning province, and Suzhou, Jiangsu provincewith no contact with the outside world allowed. To enhance the atmosphere for the players, goals will be accompanied by themed club videos on digital screens at stadiums, while a playlist featuring songs that fans have voted for will accompany teams as they step out onto the pitch and warm up before matches. During the hiatus we made many different plans to push the return of the CSL as we could not anticipate the epidemic situation in the future at that time, Dong told PP Sports. Based on the nations epidemic prevention regulations, the change in the epidemic situation and our own needs, we made dozens of plans to cope with all different scenarios since Spring Festival. Under normal circumstances, we require three to four months to prepare a season. But this year we have prepared for over seven months. The extended preparation time has meant bigger challenges, especially because we were faced with an everchanging situation. Tough penalties The CSL has stressed that any violation of its epidemic prevention rules will not be taken lightly. According to Beijing Youth Daily, the most severe penalties include point deductions and disqualification from the season. Anyone who attempts to conceal a coronavirus test result or has interaction with a highrisk person will be disqualified from the first phase. I hope everyone understands that a violation of the epidemic prevention policies does not mean just a penalty or fine, said Qi Jun, a CSL official in charge of the epidemic prevention team. A violation might mean he or she will be required to leave the match area, and the violator will not be allowed to attend this years CSL season anymore. Despite such strict rules, players are raring to kick off their season after almost seven months without competitive action. This is a tough period of time, but we are ready for the new season with the new competition format, said Tianjin Teda midfielder Guo Hao in Suzhou on Monday. Our first match will be against Shanghai SIPG. They are a strong team. But its not a bad thing to play against a strong rival this early. It will help us to adjust quickly. Hebei China Fortune midfielder Zhang Chengdong was impressed by the whole setup in Suzhou. The organizers have offered us great conditions already and its beyond my expectation, said Zhang. It has been a difficult extended preseason, but we have all kept a positive attitude to get through it together.