Quotable quotes of Xi on work, production resumption
2020-05-13 14:04
BEIJING  President Xi Jinping attaches great importance to the resumption of work and production disrupted by the COVID outbreak. He has addressed the issue on many occasions. The following are some highlights of his quotes. The epidemic prevention and control work has now entered a new stage. We have achieved major strategic outcomes, but also face pressure from the need to guard against both imported infections and domestic rebounds. Enterprises must not relax and should keep on strictly implementing epidemic prevention and control measures to push forward work resumption while ensuring the safety and health of their workers. We must make up for the time lost and strive to achieve this years goals. The economy is a dynamic circulating system that cannot afford a longterm disruption. The outbreak will inevitably deal a blow to the economy and social activities. At such a time, it is even more important to view Chinas development in a comprehensive, dialectical and longterm perspective, and to further firm up confidence. Regionspecific and multilevel targeted approaches to epidemic prevention and control must be adopted, barriers to the flow of labor and logistics must be removed, and restrictions on the transportation of cargos must be lifted to ensure that employees can get back, raw materials can be supplied and products can be distributed. With continued epidemic prevention and control as a precondition, we must now actively push forward the resumption of work and production, ensuring not only production tasks but also peoples health. There is already a positive change in our epidemic prevention and control, and gradually we can bring things back to normal. Although the vast majority of regions in the country are now at low risk, it is not time yet to think everything is fine. We need to be careful and patient. The integrated development of the Yangtze River Delta, development of the GuangdongHong KongMacao Greater Bay Area, and coordinated development of the BeijingTianjinHebei region are all significant engines powering Chinas development. With the engines picking up steam one after another, the sustained and sound development of the Chinese economy will be an irresistible trend. Crises and opportunities always exist side by side. Once overcome, a crisis is an opportunity.