Quick resumption wins foreign companies applause
2020-06-08 09:04
A Louis Dreyfus employee checks equipment at a facility in Tianjin. PhotoXinhua    SHANGHAIStefan Bott was pleased with and astonished at Chinas efficient governance during its fight against the COVID epidemic and the quick business resumption in the country as the epidemic waned. The program director with Ventilation China under Vaillant Group, a global leader of highefficiency heating, cooling and hotwater products and solutions, returned from China to Germany during the Chinese Lunar New Year holiday and worked in the German headquarters. At the time, he was concerned about his ongoing projects in China. He has witnessed on site the groups step forward in the evolving Chinese market. Vaillant Group opened a new exhibition hall in East Chinas Anhui province on May  and plans to open another one in Southwest Chinas Sichuan province by the end of this year, in a bid to get closer to its consumers. I came back to Shanghai as soon as the epidemic was well controlled in China, said Bott, adding that he hopes international business travel will resume soon so that he can reunite with his family. The groups sales in China have returned to  percent of last years sales in May, indicating the Chinese markets resilience amid the COVID epidemic, according to Li Lintao, a sales director of Vaillant Chinas heating department. Li said Vaillant remained confident in its development in the Chinese market despite the epidemic, adding that as China entered the phase of regular epidemic prevention and control, the companys investment plan in China will remain unchanged this year and it will increase the number of its sales staff by  percent to expand its business in Chinas thirdand fourthtier cities. Shanghai, where Vaillants China headquarters is located, saw rising foreign capital inflows totaling about . billion during the first quarter of this year, up . percent yearonyear. As part of Chinas continuing openingup steps, the third China International Import Expo will be held in November as planned in Shanghai, offering further opportunities for foreign companies to get closer to the worlds largest consumer market. Europebased Louis Dreyfus Company, one of the exhibitors that will attend the CIIE for the third time, has seen its facilities in China gradually resume full operations, in line with the Chinese governments antivirus measures. We highly appreciated Chinas efforts and achievements in fighting the epidemic, which allowed us to resume business in China rapidly and continue to fulfill our key role to keep customers and consumers supplied with essential food and feed products, said NamHam Chai, head of industry for Asia at Louis Dreyfus. We hope Chinas experiences will help the world at large to get through this very challenging time, he said, noting that the company was confident about Chinas continued economic growth, and remains committed to investment and development in China. The company is continuing to expand its presence in the country, most recently with investments in Shandong and Guangdong, to increase its oilseeds processing capacity and meet the countrys growing demand for soybean products.