Quality consumption will be main buttress of dual circulation
2020-10-26 09:22
Tourists shop at a dutyfree shopping mall in Sanya, Hainan province, on Oct , . PhotoXinhua    The COVID pandemic has severely suppressed Chinas consumption this year. In the first half, the growth rate of consumption declined. Many people are concerned about whether consumptionit has been the driving force of Chinas economic growth in recent yearsis still strong. Three key factors distinguish Chinas consumption story today. First, the consumer market during the extended National Day and MidAutumn Festival holiday in early October was vigorous in some regions and industries, after recovering in an orderly manner. According to data from the Ministry of Commerce, sales of Chinas major retail and dining companies reached . trillion yuan . billion from Oct  to Oct . Their average daily sales increased by . percent compared with last years National Day holiday. According to data from the Ministry of Culture and Tourism, tourist attractions across China received  million visits, and tourism revenue nationwide reached . billion yuan, regaining  percent and . percent of that in the same period last year respectively. The film industry was hit hard by the pandemic this year and the current cinema attendance rate is still stable at  percent. However, total boxoffice receipts of films released during the holiday reached the second highest among all National Day holidays in Chinas history. According to the countrys film ticketing and data authority, total boxoffice receipts of films screened from Oct  to Oct  reached about . billion yuan. The Chinese audiences appeared to have thought that the extended holiday period was good for family reunions complete with film viewings. Consumers have shown massive enthusiasm for spending on goods and night fairs. Consumption in culture, tourism, physical training and catering sectors is recovering. The consumption boom during the National Day holiday has also attracted attention from across the world. Carlos Abella Picazo, secretarygeneral of Spanish organization Mesa del Turismo, which represents the interests of all sectors of the Spanish tourism industry, said that the Spanish government should learn from Chinas experience, strive to contain the epidemic as soon as possible, and rejuvenate Spains sluggish tourism industry. The second key factor is that four consumption trendsnew forms of consumption, upgraded consumption, consumption of material goods and service consumptionwill lead the market rebound after the COVID pandemic. Owing to the impact of the epidemic, consumption in the first half of this year had been severely affected. However, Chinas consumption capacity and level have not changed. Chinas consumption is only temporarily suppressed due to measures for the prevention and control of the pandemic. In the second half of the year, consumption started to see a rapid recovery and growth. New forms of consumption include culture and healthcare, which will see greater development after the pandemic. During the holiday, libraries and museums were among the top choices for many citizens. Meanwhile drama, film, music, dance and other activities launched by art groups from all over the world brought a highlevel cultural feast to citizens. Films also attracted a large number of audiences during the holiday, after the industry was halted in the first half due to the pandemic. A great lesson from the epidemic for Chinese citizens is that we should exercise to enhance our immune systems. There might be a boom in the industry of exercise and fitness after the epidemic. Tennis, volleyball, basketball, marathon, yoga all those kinds of exercise activities might see a surge in the number of people practicing. Meanwhile, healthcare for the elderly may also see a growing need, and that will drive the development of traditional Chinese medicine, and related industries like herbs, senior care, and Yangsheng life nurturing. COVID has offered opportunities for the development of upgraded consumption. Chinas current consumption can be upgraded from three aspects the first is our way of consumption, which can become more convenient through online and offline channels, mobile payments, big data, and cloud computing.