Xi highlights new tasks in new year
2021-02-11 07:23
President Xi Jinping speaks at a gathering in the Great Hall of the People in Beijing on Wednesday in celebration of the upcoming Lunar New Year. About , people from all walks of life attended the event. PhotoXinhua    Bear in mind where we came from and continue marching forward President Xi Jinping reaffirmed on Wednesday the importance of implementing the new development philosophy and building the new development paradigm of dual circulation based on the requirements of the new development stage in the new year, and he called for consistent efforts to strive for the rejuvenation of the Chinese nation. Xi, also general secretary of the Communist Party of China Central Committee and chairman of the Central Military Commission, made the remark in his address to a gathering in the Great Hall of the People in Beijing in celebration of Spring Festival, or Lunar New Year, which falls on Friday. About , representatives from all walks of life participated in the gathering. He extended his festival greetings and best wishes to people of all ethnic groups throughout the country, to compatriots in the Hong Kong and Macao special administrative regions and Taiwan, as well as to overseas Chinese around the world. Xi reviewed the achievements China made in the past year despite many internal and external challenges amid the COVID pandemic. He said the country took the lead in the world in controlling the spread of COVID and in securing economic growth, and it has met the target of eradicating absolute poverty in rural areas as scheduled. Joint construction of the Belt and Road has made solid progress and advances in building a community with a shared future for mankind have been internationally acclaimed, he added. Practice has proved that the system of socialism with Chinese characteristics enjoys strong vitality and creativity, and the Chinese nation has strong unity and solidarity, Xi said. This year marks the centenary of the founding of the CPC. Xi said it is a landmark in the history of the Party, the country and Chinese civilization to realize the first centenary goal of completing the building of a moderately prosperous society in all respects.