Qingdao to complete COVID testing of  million after local cases emerge
2020-10-15 15:12
Health workers work at a testing station in Shibei District of Qingdao, East Chinas Shandong province, Oct , . PhotoXinhua    QINGDAO  Qingdao, a coastal city in East Chinas Shandong province, has vowed to complete a citywide nucleic acid testing campaign covering all  million residents within five days starting from Monday, after a new cluster of local COVID infections emerged. As of  a.m. Thursday, more than . million people had been sampled, while over . million of the collected samples had been tested. Except for the cases already reported, no new positive samples have been detected. The virus, which recently reemerged, has led to the discovery of  new confirmed cases of COVID by Wednesday. Most of the new cases are linked to the Qingdao Chest Hospital, which had been used to treat imported COVID cases. Sui Zhenhua, director of the Qingdao municipal health commission, was suspended following the resurgence of the virus, according to a decision made by the Qingdao municipal committee of the Communist Party of China on Wednesday. Help from neighboring cities Starting from  am Monday, the residents of a community in the citys Shinan District began to line up at a testing point to receive nucleic acid testing. We wait about  minutes before getting the testing. Its a responsible move for the good of ourselves and for others, too,  said a local resident surnamed Wang. Du Xiaoxuan, a nurse dispatched from Zibo city, about  km away from Qingdao, arrived in Qingdao at noon on Tuesday and collected more than  samples with two colleagues on their day of arrival. China has controlled the epidemic well. This is a hardwon achievement that we must safeguard, said Du. Five cities in Shandong, including Zibo, Yantai and Rizhao, have joined hands with Qingdao to help conduct nucleic acid sampling and testing, and more than , people have been dispatched to the city to assist in testing, said Chen Wansheng, an official with the municipal government of Qingdao. Most samples from five urban districts of Qingdao are transported to the five neighboring cities for testing, as Qingdao has limited equipment and the samples must be tested within  hours, Zhao Guolei, deputy director of the municipal health commission, told Xinhua. New technology boosts efficiency A in mixed testing approach has been adopted to improve efficiency, according to Zhang Huaqiang with the municipal center for disease prevention and control. If a in sample is positive, we will inform the  people to undergo separate isolation and testings to further identify the carrier of the positive sample, said Zhang. Chinese biotech company BGI Group upgraded its COVID nucleic acid test laboratory named Huoyan, or Fire Eye, in Qingdao on Wednesday. The group installed another  extracting and testing instruments in the laboratory, bringing the maximum daily testing capability from , to , samples.