Punishment given in case of infected Wuhan woman returning to Beijing
2020-03-02 21:28
PhotoIC    Four departments in Beijing, including a highway checkpoint, subdistrict community, Beijing CDC, and related property management companies, were punished after a probe into the case of an infected woman returning to Beijing from Wuhan, epicenter of the outbreak, in February, a senior capital official said on Monday. A group was established on Feb  by the Beijing Commission for Discipline Inspection to conduct an investigation on how the infected woman, an exprisoner surnamed Huang, was driven by her family members to the capital and entered a neighborhood community. Group members looked for loopholes in the capitals epidemic prevention and control work, said Xiao Sa, a senior official at the capitals Discipline Inspection Commission, in a daily media briefing on efforts to combat the virus in Beijing on Monday. Xiao said the expressway that Huang traveled to enter Beijing only had one auxiliary policeman at the checkpoint to conduct body temperature checks on Huang and her family members, which showed normal temperature results. The highway staff didnt check their identities again, as required. The Xinyijiayuan community in Beijings Dongcheng district, where Huang and her family live, also allowed cars to drive in if the vehicles had been recorded previously taking body temperature was not required, Xiao said. It resulted in Huang and the people who followed her entering the parking lot directly, he said. Additionally, Xiao said telephone operators at the Beijing Center for Prevention and Disease Control replied, There are no restrictions in Beijings traffic as long as you can get on the highway in Wuhan, to queries from Huangs family about whether a car from Wuhan could enter the capital. The onduty auxiliary police officer at the checkpoint on the highway was dismissed and the deputy director of the inspection station, who oversaw the auxiliary police that day, has been removed from office, Xiao said. The Chongwai subdistrict office that manages the Xinyijiayuan community also was reported on its accountability, he added.