Xi Focus Xi cares for scitech innovation to better support national development
2021-08-07 16:16
President Xi Jinping, also general secretary of the Communist Party of China Central Committee and chairman of the Central Military Commission, visits a company producing intelligent equipment to learn about the development of advanced manufacturing industry, in Changsha, capital of Central Chinas Hunan province, Sept , . PhotoXinhua    BEIJING  President Xi Jinping has always attached great importance to scitech innovation, stressing that scitech selfreliance and selfstrengthening should always be considered a strategic support for national development. Xi, also general secretary of the Communist Party of China Central Committee and chairman of the Central Military Commission, encouraged scientists, researchers and technologists to surmount scitech peaks on various occasions. TARGETING SCITECH FRONTIERS During an inspection trip in Southwest Chinas Guizhou province in February, Xi met with the project leaders and core scientists of Chinas Fivehundredmeter Aperture Spherical Radio Telescope FAST, the worlds largest singledish radio telescope. Stressing the importance of science and technology in Chinas pursuit of building a modern socialist country, Xi called on scientists to scale the heights of global science and make new and greater contributions to the construction of Chinas scientific and technological strength at a faster pace, realizing the countrys selfreliance and selfimprovement in science and technology. So far, the FAST has helped scientists discover almost  pulsars, two times the pulsars discovered by other telescopes during the same period. Besides the FAST, Xi also shows great concern for Chinas progress in other scitech frontiers. He visited an exhibition on the lunar samples brought back by the Change probe and Chinas lunar exploration achievements. He also expressed his congratulations on the successful launch of the core module of Chinas space station and spoke with the three astronauts stationed in the core module via a video call. In April, Xi visited a laboratory on imaging and intelligence at Tsinghua University. He urged steady growth of spending in basic research, and motivated researchers to carry out free exploration, dare to challenge existing theories and be bold in opening up new directions in scientific research. SERVING HIGHQUALITY DEVELOPMENT In addition to targeting global scitech frontiers, scitech development is also expected to serve the main economic battlefields, fulfill the significant needs of the country and benefit peoples lives and health. While inspecting machinery manufacturer Guangxi Liugong Group Co., Ltd. this April, Xi said highquality development of the manufacturing industry is the top priority in promoting Chinas highquality economic growth. With government support, Chinese enterprises are playing an increasingly important role in scitech innovation. Liugong, an international enterprise with  complete machine product lines, currently has five global research and development RD platforms and four statelevel innovation bases, employing more than , RD engineers. There are , high and newtech enterprises and , small and mediumsized scitech enterprises respectively in China. The country is also building international scitech innovation centers in Beijing, Shanghai and the GuangdongHong KongMacao Greater Bay Area, as well as setting up  national innovation demonstration zones and  hightech zones. BENEFITING PEOPLES LIVELIHOOD Chinese people benefited from the scitech achievements and innovation initiatives since the country further increased the support of scitech in improving peoples livelihood. When visiting a tea farm during his inspection trip to East Chinas Fujian province in March, Xi stressed more efforts in implementing the arrangements to dispatch technical professionals to rural areas to help with local development. In Nanping city of the province where the tea farm is located, the contribution of science and technology to agricultural growth has increased from  to more than  percent since . A total of hundreds of thousands of technical professionals have participated in Chinas poverty alleviation efforts. The country in February declared a complete victory in eradicating absolute poverty. Scitech innovations have helped China achieve major progress in fields like improving air quality, protecting land resources, reclaiming saline land and preventing and controlling major epidemics. Accelerating scitech innovation is a definite choice for China since it has embarked on the journey to achieve the second centenary goal.