Proposed delay of key meetings pragmatic move China Daily editorial
2020-02-17 21:04
Wang Yang, a member of the Standing Committee of the Political Bureau of the Communist Party of China Central Committee and chairman of the Chinese Peoples Political Consultative Conference National Committee, presides over the nd chairman and vice chairpersons meeting of the th CPPCC National Committee, in Beijing, Jan , . PhotoXinhua    That the National Peoples Congress Standing Committee, Chinas top legislature, and the Chinese Peoples Political Consultative Conference National Committee, the countrys top political advisory body, are considering postponing their annual sessions that are usually held in March is a pragmatic move at a time when the country is still battling the novel coronavirus, about which more still needs to be known. Although the number of people in the country outside of Hubei province that have been infected by the virus had dropped for  days in a row as of Monday, it is still too early to claim that the situation has been brought under control, and the nation cannot relax its vigilance. Not to mention that the fight against the virus in Hubei  particularly its capital Wuhan where the death toll accounts for more than  percent of the national total  remains an uphill battle. Given that the two sessions would see thousands of lawmakers and political advisers from across the country descend on Beijing, not to mention the reporters and meeting service staff that would also be in attendance, it is natural that the NPC Standing Committee and the CPPCC National Committee should deliberate on whether they should delay their annual sessions since the country is still discouraging gatherings in a bid to stop persontoperson transmission of the virus. Since onethird of the , NPC delegates are provincial and municipallevel cadres with important leadership roles on the front line of the battle against the virus, their work is directly related to the epidemic control and prevention work. The proposed postponement is another sign of the countrys resolute determination to win the fight against the virus, which, as the World Health Organization has said, has helped prevent large spillover effects to other countries. The fight to contain the epidemic is in a critical stage, but China is also fighting another battle to revive the momentum of its economy, which is obviously also of great importance to the world economy. How to steer the worlds secondlargest economy through the choppy waters of the epidemic is a severe test for Chinas decisionmakers. With Chinas ongoing cooperation with the WHO, the resumption of industries and business, and the understanding and support of the whole nation, the countrys efforts to end the epidemic will pay off. But there are many lessons that need to be learned from the outbreak of the novel coronavirus and Chinas response to the epidemic. The NPC delegates and CPPCC National Committee members must reflect on how and why the peoples war needed to be fought, and the shortcomings in the governance system that have revealed, so that they can contribute to improving and further modernizing the countrys governance capacities.