Proper financial support needed to boost growth of real economy
2020-05-27 07:25
The Government Work Report Premier Li Keqiang delivered to the National Peoples Congress, Chinas top legislature, on Friday not only stresses the importance of providing more financial support for the micro, small and mediumsized businesses, but also highlights the necessity of tightening regulation and preventing funds from circulating only in the financial sector. To support market entities, we must ensure that micro, small, and mediumsized businesses have significantly better access to loans and that overall financing costs drop markedly, Premier Li said, which shows that interactive development of finance and the real economy is key to a virtuous macroeconomic system cycle. Finance needs the real economy for development, while the real economy needs finance to support its sustainable development. But during the past years, the financial sector has at times failed to serve the economy well, as funds flowed into the stock and housing sectors to fuel speculation. As the worst black swan event to hit the world in decades, the novel coronavirus pandemic has greatly impacted Chinas economy, with its GDP declining . percent in the first quarter of this yearthe first time in almost three decades. To cope with the severe impact of the epidemic on the economy, China recently increased the scale of credit investment. For instance, in April newly added social financing increased to . trillion yuan  billion, up . trillion yuan yearonyear, and newly added yuan loan rose to . trillion yuan, up . billion yuan yearonyear. Yet not all of the newly added credit investment flowed into the real economy as expected. As for the hike in housing prices in Shenzhen early this year, it can be attributed to some credit funds meant to serve small businesses flowing into the realty sector. Given the challenges of the times, investors tend to divert funds meant to serve other sectors of the real economy into the property sector. So how to guide new funds into the nonrealty real economy will be a big challenge in the postepidemic period. To solve this problem, the central authorities should deepen the financial sector reform, so as to change the pattern of finance distribution and guide more funds toward the real economy, as well as establish a longterm mechanism in the postepidemic period to ensure the financial sector helps boost the real economy. Also, the financial sector should accelerate marketoriented reform of commercial banks, by gradually increasing competition in deposit and loan interest rates, and narrowing the deposit and loan interest margin. And while access to the financial market should be widened, yuan deposit and loan business restrictions on foreign banks should be gradually lifted. The authorities should also encourage more investment of foreign capital in private banks, help develop efficient small and mediumsized inclusive financial organizations, expand the credit fund supply channel, and raise the overall supply of credit funds. To improve the financing mechanism of SMEs and help them get more loans, the authorities should strengthen supervision on financial services, reduce the financing cost for the real economy, and build a healthy relationship between financing and the real economy, while curbing the excessive flow of funds into the real estate sector. Besides, enterprises should adapt to the changes in the postoutbreak economic recovery period, strike the right balance between market supply and demand, and help improve the real economys profitearning capacity. The profitseeking nature of capital determines that financial resources be distributed to make maximum profits. To a large extent, largescale capital has been flowing into the stock markets and financial sector, as the real economys profit margin is comparatively low. And only when the real economys profitearning capacity increases substantially can it become really attractive for investors, leading to a virtuous cycle of collaborative development between the real economy and the financial sector. In the postepidemic recovery period, the real economy should stick to an innovationdriven strategy in order to clear the lowend development bottlenecks and expeditiously upgrade the highend industrial and value chains. And to increase the profitearning capacity of the real economy, especially micro, small and mediumsized enterprises, the authorities should further deepen supplyside structural reform in the real economy and proactively promote highquality development. The authors are researchers at the Chinese Enterprises Confederation. The views dont necessarily represent those of China Daily.