Project to improve standardization of medical protocols launched
2020-12-29 16:59
Shanghai launches a project to enact standards regarding quality control at fever clinics for children and the referral of child patients suffering from infectious diseases to higherlevel hospitals on Tuesday. Photo provided to chinadaily.com.cn    A project to enact standards regarding quality control at fever clinics for children and the referral of child patients suffering from infectious diseases to higherlevel hospitals was launched on Tuesday, said the Childrens Hospital of Fudan University in Shanghai. The standards are aimed at better standardizing hardware and software requirements and capabilities at the fever clinics and providing pediatricians at both community health centers and secondary and tertiary hospitals with detailed, feasible steps of action after receiving a child with an infectious disease, said Zhai Xiaowen, vicepresident of the Childrens Hospital of Fudan University. According to the hospital, such efforts will ultimately boost Shanghais capability of diagnosing infectious cases in children and treating complicated and critical patients, as well as establish a multilayered treatment solution that can be used in epidemic response. The establishment of standards is expected to be accomplished at the end of next year. The standards will be applied nationwide, Zhai said. Experts explained that the child infectious diseases referred to in the project are common ones such as influenza, infectious diarrheas, handfootandmouth disease and COVID, among others. About  leading medical workers in various areas, including infectious diseases, respiratory diseases, disease prevention and control, hospital management, and critical medical care, have joined the expert committees for the two standards respectively. The project is also part of the threeyear  action plan to improve public health in Shanghai, which has set a goal of becoming one of the worlds safest cities with regard to public health by . A training program dedicated to helping healthcare workers at comprehensive hospitals and community health centers improve their capabilities in identifying, diagnosing, and treating child infectious diseases was also initiated on Tuesday. Around  doctors joined the offline training at the Childrens Hospital of Fudan University and about , participated through a live broadcast.