Pro sports leagues season restart on hold
2020-03-29 11:36
Shandong Lunengs Pedro Delgado, center, in action in a Chinese Super League match against Beijing Guoan in July, . PhotoXinhua    With foreign players inbound route now blocked by the countrys new entry restriction amid the coronavirus pandemic, Chinas professional sports leagues have put their highlyanticipated restart on hold. Even with the season still locked out due to the virus crisis, Chinese Super League club Shanghai SIPG has scored the buzzerbeating goal of the year after bringing its Brazilian trio  Oscar, Hulk and newlysigned left winger Ricardo Lopes  back to Shanghai on Friday midnight just before Chinas newlyimposed entry ban on foreign nationals took effect on Saturday to deal with the spread of COVID through imported cases. Flying on a luxury Bombardier private jet, the three Brazilians  worth  million euros  million in total transfer fees  landed at Shanghais Pudong International Airport just  minutes before the entry ban came into effect the next morning, and they have been put under a day quarantine, obeying Chinas epidemic prevention rules, according to a .com report. However, the entry suspension that was issued by the Foreign Ministry on Thursday night still caught most of Chinas professional sports clubs off guard as a majority of their foreign employees, either players, coaches or trainers, are now left overseas without knowing when they can they rejoin their respective Chinese teams. Foreign nationals arriving with diplomatic, service, courtesy or Ctype visas are not affected by the suspension, while the restriction will be adjusted in light of the evolving situation on the pandemic, according to the ministry. With Chinas strict outbreakcontrol measures taking effect to curb new infection cases domestically, fans expectations had grown that the CSL would start its delayed  season as early as late April, so the Chinese Basketball Association could resume its suspended  regular campaign behind closed doors at about the same time. The indefinite absence of some of the leagues import players though seems likely to hold back any imminent restart plans. According to statistics by Lanxiong Sport, a Chinese sports industry analyzing agency, only  out of  import players who signed up with CSL clubs for the  season had made it back to China by Friday, while  of  foreign players and coaches hired by  CBA teams had returned before the deadline. Even having acquired Chinese passports to be exempted from the ban, some of the countrys naturalized players, such as perennial CSL champion Guangzhou Evergrandes Brazilborn striker Ricardo Goulart, have been told by clubs to hold off their return plans due to the reduction in the number of international flights departing for China and the risk of infection during long trips. From Sunday, Chinas domestic airlines are required to reduce their international routes to only one per country and cap the number of flights to no more than one flight per week, according to the Civil Aviation Administration. Former Manchester United midfielder Marouane Fellaini became the first CSL player to return a positive test for the virus upon his arrival in China on March , and the Belgian is currently in the middle of  days of quarantine. The severe challenge against imported COVID infections, highlighted by the Fellaini case among others, coupled with the latest entry suspension, has prompted the countrys sports governing body to use extra caution on any proposals to resume domestic league play, despite effective virus containment at home. The General Administration of Sport of China, the countrys top sports authority, had called off a plan proposed by the CBA company to restart its season on April  at closeddoor tournaments in light of the remaining risk at the moment, according to Beijing Youth Daily report. The league company is also discussing a contingency plan to allow each team to use only one foreigner on court at any given time, down from two earlier this season, if the play is allowed to resume before the travel ban is removed to make the competition relatively fair in favor of foreignabsent teams, the report said. Still, some of the leagues highprofile foreign employees, including Beijing Ducks American guard Jeremy Lin and former NBA AllStar Stephon Marbury, who now coaches the Ducks crosstown rival the Royal Fighters, have returned China safely on earlyplanned trips. Marbury, who finished his day isolation on Wednesday following his arrival in the Chinese capital on March , rejoined his team at the clubs east Beijing training facility on Friday after retesting negative. His appearance at the gym lifted the spirit of his players, who he kept overseeing online during his quarantine, and facilitated the teams preparation for the pending restart after  regular season games. I am extremely happy that the coach is back. It means that I can continue improving under his watch, said Zhang Fan, a yearold guard on the Royal Fighters. Having built a deep bond with China since joining the CBA as a player in , Marbury, who enjoys interacting with over  million followers on his Weibo account, has constantly posted updates on his life under quarantine, offering words of respect to Chinas viruscontrol measures while forwarding news related to the fight against the disease on the social networking platform since returning to Beijing. A photo of a certification letter issued by the neighborhood office covering Marburys Beijing apartment, which reads, We hereby certify that Comrade Marbury has finished the quarantine, went viral on Weibo on Wednesday after being liked by over , users hours after released. We need to stay calm and united in this fight against the pandemic. As long as we stand together and act in unity, its only a matter of time for us to defeat the virus, read a Chinese article posted by the yearold New York native.