Xi extends condolences to people who died from coronavirus
2020-02-10 17:03
Xi Jinping, general secretary of the Communist Party of China Central Committee, inspects the Beijing Ditan Hospital, a designated institution treating the novel coronavirus pneumonial in Beijing, Feb , . PhotoXinhua    Xi inspects novel coronavirus prevention, control work in BeijingBEIJING  Xi Jinping, general secretary of the Communist Party of China Central Committee, on Monday inspected the novel coronavirus pneumonia prevention and control work in Beijing. Xi, also Chinese president and chairman of the Central Military Commission, visited Anhuali community, Chaoyang district of Beijing to learn about the epidemic prevention and control at the primary level and the supply of daily necessities. He also extended regards to residents and community workers. Xi stresses winning peoples war against novel coronavirus BEIJING  Xi Jinping, general secretary of the Communist Party of China Central Committee, on Monday stressed resolutely winning the peoples war of epidemic prevention and control with firmer confidence, stronger resolve and more decisive measures. Xi, also Chinese president and chairman of the Central Military Commission, made the remarks while inspecting the novel coronavirus pneumonia prevention and control work in Beijing. Xi says China can certainly score full victory in epidemic fight BEIJING  Xi Jinping, general secretary of the Communist Party of China Central Committee, on Monday said China can certainly score a full victory in the fight against the novel coronavirus pneumonia epidemic. The situation at the moment remains very serious, said Xi, also Chinese president and chairman of the Central Military Commission. Speaking during an inspection of the epidemic prevention and control work in Beijing, Xi said the whole party, the armed forces and the people of all ethnic groups in China stand together with the people of Hubei and Wuhan. Hubei province, of which Wuhan is the capital city, is at the center of the outbreak. Xi pointed out that Hubei and Wuhan are the top priority for the epidemic prevention and control. Wuhan is a heroic city and people of Hubei and Wuhan are heroic people who have never been crushed by any difficulty and danger in history. As long as our comrades work together, fight bravely and overcome difficulties, we certainly can score a full victory in the fight against the epidemic, Xi said. Xi urges more resolute measures in Hubei to contain virus BEIJING  Xi Jinping, general secretary of the Communist Party of China Central Committee, Monday called for more resolute measures in the central Chinese province of Hubei and its capital city of Wuhan to curb the novel coronavirus from spreading. Xi, also Chinese president and chairman of the Central Military Commission, made the remarks during a video conference at Beijing Ditan Hospital with officials fighting the novel coronavirus pneumonia epidemic in Hubei province. Identifying Hubei and Wuhan as the top priorities of the epidemic control work, Xi made a fivepoint demand  Resolute efforts should be made to leave no one unattended  Allout efforts should be made to treat and save patients  Social governance should be strengthened in every aspect  Public communication should be strengthened  The unified command should be enhanced. Xi extends condolences to people who died from coronavirus BEIJING  Xi Jinping, general secretary of the Communist Party of China CPC Central Committee, Monday extended deep condolences to those who died from the novel coronavirus pneumonia and expressed deep sympathy to their bereaved families. Xi, also Chinese president and chairman of the Central Military Commission, also extended sincere sympathy to the patients and their families. On behalf of the CPC Central Committee, Xi extended the condolences and sympathy when he held a video conference at the Beijing Ditan Hospital with officials fighting the novel coronavirus pneumonia epidemic in Hubei Province. Xi also extended regards to Party members, officials and people in Hubei, and expressed appreciation for the medical workers, officers and soldiers of the Peoples Liberation Army, as well as comrades from all walks of life on the frontline of epidemic prevention and control.