Prison system hit by outbreak
2020-02-22 04:45
Entrance of Wuhan Womens Prison, Hubei province, seen on Friday. ZHU?XINGXIN??CHINA?DAILY    More than  novel coronavirus cases were confirmed in Chinas prison system as of Thursday, prompting the central leadership to dispatch an investigative team to one hardhit facility in Shandong province on Friday, leading to an appeal for strengthened disease control efforts in prisons. Nearly  percent of the  infected prisoners were added on Thursday, while the others were added earlier, bringing the number of daily new infections on the Chinese mainland to . That made for a spike from  reported a day earlier that disrupts the overall decline in new cases. He Ping, a senior official with the Ministry of Justices prison administration bureau, said on Friday that five prisons in Hubei, Shandong and Zhejiang provinces have reported outbreaks of the virus, with no deaths and no severely ill patients. In Hubei, the epicenter of the outbreak, the Wuhan Womens Prison registered  infected patients and Hanjin Prison in Jingmen reported  infections and nine suspected cases. One more suspected case was reported in a juvenile correctional facility, He said. Hubei health authorities said prisons in Hubei are not linked to the online reporting system of infectious diseases. Instead, the government obtained handwritten documents from the prison department on Thursday evening that tracked a total of  confirmed infections among inmates. Head of the Wuhan Womens Prison was sacked and a police officer at Hanjin Prison was given a serious warning for failing to perform their duties, He said. In Shandong province, Rencheng Prison in Jining reported  confirmed cases and  suspected cases among its inmates as of Thursday, according to He. The provincial health commission said on Thursday morning that seven prison officers had also been infected, with one of them diagnosed as infected as early as Feb . Xie Weijun, head of the provincial department of justice, two officials with the Shandong Provincial Prison Administration and five officials with Rencheng Prison were removed from their posts due to negligence in disease control work. The Commission for Political and Legal Affairs of the Communist Party of China Central Committee announced on Friday that it has dispatched a team to Shandong to probe the outbreak. Team members were drawn from the Ministry of Public Security, the Supreme Peoples Procuratorate and the Ministry of Justice. In Zhejiang province, Shilifeng Prison in Quzhou reported  infected prisoners as of Thursday. Two top officials of the prison were removed from positions and the local public security force has begun an investigation of one prison officer. He, from the Ministry of Justice, said, Well learn a lesson from these infection clusters, enforce responsibilities and implement thorough quarantine management while striving to treat the infected in order to curb the diseases spread. Infected prisoners will receive standard and timely treatment under quarantine like regular patients, he added. Previously, the number of the Chinese mainlands new infections outside Hubei had dropped for  consecutive days to  cases on Wednesday. On Thursday though, areas outside Hubei added  cases. Nationwide, the death toll went up by  to , as of Thursday. The accumulated number of infections was put at ,, according to the National Health Commission. Despite the swell in newly confirmed cases, health authorities have maintained that the broader circumstances of the epidemic are moving in a positive direction. Fourteen provinciallevel regions reported zero new infections on Thursday, with six of them declaring a clean slate for at least four days in a row, Zeng Yixin, viceminister of the National Health Commission, said on Friday. The number of newly discharged patients has been climbing fast, exceeding that of new infections for three days in a row as of Thursday, he said. On Thursday, , patients had recovered and were released from hospitals, bringing the total number of recovered patients amid the epidemic to ,. A wider perspective also shows noticeable decreases in new infections and a reduction in suspected cases this month, Zeng said, adding that stringent measures should be taken to keep the virus from flaring up again. Mi Feng, the commission spokesman, said that in Wuhan, the number of cured patients surpassed new confirmed cases for the first time on Thursday. More efforts will be devoted to treating and managing milder cases, preventing their conditions from worsening into severe illnesses, he said. Hu Yabo, vicemayor of Wuhan, said that starting on Saturday, the city will be able to confirm whether highrisk people are infected the same day they are reported because the city now is capable of conducting , nucleic acid tests a day. The city has been instructed by a team dispatched by the central government to facilitate epidemic control and prevention work in Hubei to increase beds in designated and makeshift hospitals by , each by Tuesday to treat infected patients. Hu said the designated hospitals and the temporary hospitals in the city can now guarantee a daily increase of , beds. Meanwhile, there are , beds in locations for quarantine and medical observation. Previously, some patients were not hospitalized in a timely way. The problem has been addressed, he said. Despite all the positive changes, Hu said, the epidemic control situation in the city remains grim and there is still a large demand for more hospital beds. To meet the demand, the city plans to complete the construction of another  makeshift hospitals by Tuesday, increasing the number of such hospitals in the city to . Ma Zhenhuan and Zhao Ruixue contributed to this story.