President says nation will enhance basic research and global cooperation
2021-09-28 09:29
A robot dances at the Zhongguancun Forum exhibition in Beijing, on Sept , . Photo by Zhu Xingxinchinadaily.com.cn    President Xi Jinpings speech at the opening ceremony of the  Zhongguancun Forum on Friday night, which was delivered via video link, has attracted extensive attention and sparked heated discussion on opportunities and challenges in science and technology development around the world. Xi said China will strengthen international exchanges on science and technology with a more open attitude, proactively take part in the global innovation network and jointly move forward with fundamental research. Xu Qiang, head of the Beijing Science and Technology Commission, who listened to the speech at the opening ceremony, said he was encouraged to learn that Beijing will strengthen science and technology innovation and actively integrate with the global innovation network. Ren Changrui, executive vicepresident of the Beijing Academy of Blockchain and Edge Computing, said he felt inspired after hearing Xis speech. Ren said blockchain is a technology that promotes trust and connection, and the development of blockchain is inseparable from international exchanges and cooperation. Xi also stressed the need for a joint response to current challenges and the joint promotion of the noble cause of peace and development for humanity. Tong Zhaohui, vicepresident of Beijing Chaoyang Hospital, said he will enhance scientific and technology innovation and apply the results to medical work. We will increase cooperation with the world and actively conduct research on COVID vaccines and epidemic prevention to ease the problem, he said. Zhongguancun Forum, a key national platform for openingup and innovation, was launched in . It is held in Beijings Zhongguancun area in Haidian district, which is home to many top universities, research institutions and hightech companies. In his speech, Xi also pledged to support Zhongguancun, the nations first demonstration zone for independent innovation, in conducting a new round of pilot reform and expediting steps to develop itself into a leading global tech park. Yuan Jinhui, founder and CEO of Beijing OneFlow Technology, said he believed more unicorn companiesstartups valued at over  billionwill be created in Zhongguancun. Xi has sent a clear message to technologydriven startups like us, said Yuan, who founded his company in Haidian district in  with the aim of developing an intelligent learning platform. As a professional in science and technology, we need to focus on the future and create quality products through technology and innovation, to solve problems and seek the future for humanity. Yuan said Zhongguancun has an environment that encourages enterprises to do fundamental research. Like a fertile soil, the Zhongguancun area ensures that innovative companies like us that need longterm underlying growth in software technology can grow steadily, he said.