Poverty relief official goes extra mile raising villagers incomes
2021-05-21 08:40
Liu Yuan center inspects the wheat harvest in Chenxiaozhai village of Linquan, Anhui province, in May . Photo by Zhu LinxinChina Daily    After four years in the formerly povertystricken village of Chenxiaozhai, Liu Yuan says he will probably leave but will always cherish his experiences there. In April , the now yearold Liu was one of  officials dispatched to hundreds of key villages in East Chinas Anhui province to work on poverty relief. Formerly attached to the publicity department of the CPCs Fuyang city committee, Liu was appointed first Party secretarya Party member deployed by higher authorities usually to oversee poverty relief workof the village, which is in southern Linquan county, and he has been working to meet his goal ever since. With a population of over . million according to the hukou, or household registration system, Linquan is Chinas most heavily populated county and was one of its most impoverished areas. About half the , villagers have migrated to cities for work, said Liu, adding that nearby Fuyang, which has a population of over  million, is famous as a source of migrant workers. Before arriving in Chenxiaozhai, the new secretary was told that  villagers were classified as povertystricken and would be treated as a priority. According to Chinas national definition of poverty at the time, the classification referred to anyone with an annual income of less than , yuan . Poverty relief is not simply about increasing incomes, its also about creating a better environment to ensure improvements will last, said Liu. He said that he will never forget the sight that greeted him when he first arrived in Chenxiaozhai on April , . Infrastructure, like paved roads, was nearly nonexistent, and the offices of those responsible for the parttime administration of the village were located in an abandoned primary school. The most important, and the most difficult thing, was not telling the government that a village needs money, it was deciding how to spend the money on the right things, he continued. Since then, he has helped Chenxiaozhai secure millions of yuan from the government to improve infrastructure, and he says that there are now paved roads leading to every household. Liu found that he was responsible for the wellbeing of many more than just those  villagers on the poverty list. The villagers each had fields of about one mu, or  square meters, in size, and he realized that people would never be able to make a decent living from them. With support from the local government and through the efforts of his colleagues in the village, Liu was able to introduce the practice of land transfer in .