PostSpring Festival trips down
2020-02-17 07:11
A traffic police officer checks body temperatures of passengers in a car entering Beijing on an expressway on Saturday.?WANG ZHUANGFEICHINA DAILY    No peak period at end of holiday as millions of workers delay journeys There will be no peak period during this years day Spring Festival travel rush, which will end on Tuesday, due to the ongoing novel coronavirus, the Ministry of Transport said over the weekend. Because of measures taken to curb the epidemic, passenger trips in the  days from Jan  to Tuesday are expected to be less than half the number in the day travel rush last year, with the decrease especially sharp during the return leg that started on Jan , ViceMinister of Transport Liu Xiaoming told a news conference held by the State Council Information Office on Saturday. As a growing number of people take various modes of transport to return to work after the Lunar New Year holiday, many overseas observers have expressed concern about the pressure the mass migration will place on the countrys epidemic prevention and control efforts. However, ministry statistics show that only  million trips had been made between Jan  and Friday, down . percent yearonyear, as a result of travel restrictions and quarantine aimed at containing the spread of the virus. The period for return trips will be longer this year, with much lower peak passenger flows than in previous years, Liu said, adding that the daily number of return trips is expected to be maintained at  milliononly  percent of passenger volumes during last years travel rush. Considering that the day Spring Festival travel rush is going to be completed on Feb , there wont be significant changes in the volume of passenger trips, he said. It means the travel peak that appeared in previous years wont be seen this time. The countrys daily new confirmed cases of novel coronavirus pneumonia outside Hubei province, the epicenter of the outbreak, have been dropping for  days, the National Health Commission said on Sunday. Citing ministry analysis, Liu said the country would gradually see migrant workers return to work and students go back to schools in the coming days. An estimated  million migrant workers will travel back to their workplaces,  million of whom have already returned. Some  million workers are expected to make the trip from now until the end of February, with another  million expected to return next month. In addition, an estimated  million students will be making return trips, depending on when schools start the new semester. To ensure safe and smooth transportation, transport departments at all levels have been stepping up disinfection efforts and the collection of passenger information, as well as enhancing emergency management capabilities to cope with rainy or snowy weather. The ministry has said the number of passengers on buses, trains, airplanes and ferries should be less than half their approved passenger capacity to reduce crossinfection risks. Li Wenxin, deputy general manager of China State Railway Group, said the countrys railway network was able to handle  million trips a day at full capacity, and so could now handle  million a day. With travel demand around just  million on a daily basis, the company can provide chartered train services to pick up migrant workers from sources of labor to ensure orderly return trips during the nonrush period, he said. Li Lei contributed to this story.