Pessimism over economy unwarranted
2020-02-26 08:37
An investor looks at share prices at a brokerage in Fuyang, Anhui province. Photo by Wang BiaoFor China Daily    The COVID outbreak is likely to have a big impact on Chinas economy in the first quarter, especially because many people have postponed their return to work after the Spring Festival holidays. Yet since the government has now rolled out measures across the country, except Hubei province, to gradually resume normal economic activities, people should have confidence in Chinas economic outlook for . Given Chinas comprehensive prevention and control measures to control the COVID outbreakand judging by a study on Brazils economic performance after the  Zika virus outbreakthe coronavirus epidemic is unlikely to undermine the fundamentals of Chinas economy. For those who are afraid that the epidemic will deal a deadly blow to the Chinese economy, it is important to remember what former US president Franklin D.Roosevelt said The only thing we have to fear is fear itself. In Brazil, the first reports of locally transmitted Zika infection appeared in May . In February , as the Zika virus spread rapidly across the range where Aedes mosquitoes thrive in the Americas, the World Health Organization declared that Zika, which causes microcephaly and other neurological disorders, constituted a public health emergency of international concern. Also, by early February , local transmission of Zika had been reported from more than  countries and territories, and thousands of people had been infected in Cabo Verde, off the west coast of Africa. Which means the Zika virus was carried by international travelers to places thousands of kilometers beyond the range of Aides mosquitoes. In , Brazil faced an even bleaker situation than China is facing now, not least because the Brazilian economy had contracted by . percent in . Yet the WHO and the International Olympic Committee turned down a proposal to defer or shift the  Summer Olympic Games from Rio de Janeiro even as one after another international organization lowered the growth forecast for Brazil. As a result, Brazil became the first South American country to host the Olympicson schedule. No confirmed Zika cases were reported during the Rio Olympics with Brazil attracting a record of . million visits by foreigners in , up . percent yearonyear. In fact, Brazil attracted more foreign visitors in  than in , the year it hosted the Football World Cup. As a result, WHO withdrew its directive calling Zika a public health emergency of international concern in November , while economic contraction and inflation eased in Brazil. The Brazilian economy contracted . percent in  compared with . percent in . In  and , the Brazilian economy grew by . percent, with the growth in the first, second and third quarters of  being . percent, . percent and . percent respectively. And while its consumer price index grew by . percent in , down from . percent in , the following two years and the first  months of  saw a lower CPI growth, of . percent, . percent and . percent respectively. In contrast, China had a spectacular yearonyear growth in , the year the severe acute respiratory syndrome SARS broke out in the country, followed by  years of high growth. In actual terms, China recorded a GDP growth of  percent in , higher than the . percent in , the first year after China enjoyed the dividend of joining the World Trade Organization. The doubledigit growth continued until . Thanks to its experience of controlling SARS, China knows how to bounce back after an epidemic outbreak. Which has been acknowledged by WHO, which said that declaring the COVID outbreak a public health emergency of international concern was not about doubting Chinas ability to contain the epidemic but about protecting countries with weaker health systems. Therefore, market players better stay calm, without being overly pessimistic about Chinas growth prospects. The author is a researcher at the Chinese Academy of International Trade and Economic Cooperation. The views dont necessarily represent those of China Daily.