People of China waging brave struggle against virus
2020-02-03 15:29
Members of a  First Aid team disinfect their ambulance and themselves after a full days work at a disinfection station of Wuhan Urgentcare Center in Hubei province, on Jan . Photo by Yuan Zheng and Gao XingFor China Daily    The world has been putting huge pressure on the Chinese government due to the current coronavirus outbreak. In the face of these difficulties, the Chinese government has been doing an effective job adopting preventive methods to tackle the epidemic. A few days back during his visit to Wuhan, Chinese Premier Li Keqiang called for a united front against coronavirus and urged the whole world to join hands with China in support. Similarly, President Xi Jinping urged people to support the government in the timely elimination of this disease. The government has taken very strong action to contain the spread. It has built brandnew hospitals in Wuhan for coronavirus patients. It has also provided more funding and financing to local governments and the scientific community to come up with a solution to the problem. The government has also started an awareness campaign across the country, and medicine and protective gear are also being provided in abundance to local authorities. Treatment and containment of this virus is in full swing all over the country. Though the number of patients is growing at present, many patients have been discharged after treatment. This might not seem like a big achievement, but in this situation it is a great victory. The recovery rate will grow with time, and the infection rate will decrease in the coming days. At present, the fight has reached a critical stage, but awareness and preventive measures have also been ramped up to contain the virus further spread. This sudden attack has not only harmed local people, but also disrupted the Spring Festival and family reunions. The awareness campaign is working, as most people have stopped going outside unless it is absolutely necessary, and the government has established monitoring checkpoints all over the country. Medical workers have dedicated themselves fully to tackling this epidemic. In Wuhan, nurses and doctors are working day and night to further ease the situation and cure patients with any and all possible treatments. I read an article about a nurse from Wuhan who worked  hours straight for the sake of humanity. This shows the most important thing is to stay committed as the fight continues and the battlefield expands. The situation may become more severe, but all must contribute what they can to and contain the epidemic. At present, the Chinese people are showing great unity and bravery in this fight. They have joined the front lines of a national battle, and soon they will witness turning point. I am confident the coronavirus will be contained with the support from the scientific community, the dedication of doctors and nurses, the unity and bravery of the Chinese people and the commitment of the Chinese government. My good wishes are with the Chinese nation. The author is a journalist based in Pakistan and has graduated from the Communication University of China with a degree in international journalism. The opinions expressed here are those of the writer and do not necessarily represent the views of China Daily and China Daily website. ?