People nationwide come together to help Wuhan
2020-02-17 09:49
Medical professionals from Nanfang Hospital in Guangzhou, Guangdong province, pose for a photo before heading to Wuhan, Hubei province, to help fight the novel coronavirus last month. PhotoChina Daily    Individuals from all walks of life are contributing to the fight against the deadly disease. Yang Zekun reports. We are in a war against the coronavirusthere is no good reason to run away when you can be a fighter. Thats what Zhang Zhan, a doctor from Wuhan, Hubei province, was thinking when she volunteered to work at the forefront of the battlefield against the coronavirus outbreak, which started in the city. Before the outbreak, Zhang was a senior doctor in the outpatients clinic of the Department of Respiratory and Critical Care Medicine of Renmin Hospital at Wuhan University. She does not know when she will return to her old job. Faced with a rising number of confirmed cases at the hospital, Zhang volunteered to work in the observation room, where she would meet and interact with a large number of infected patients. That would place her at greater risk of becoming infected. Zhang is an experienced doctor. She worked at Guangdong Second Provincial General Hospital in Guangzhou, Guangdongs capital, treating patients infected during the  outbreak of severe acute respiratory syndrome. As a result, she was fully aware of the risk of becoming infected with the coronavirus, especially as medical supplies such as face masks were in short supply. She said being a longstay doctor in the observation room allows her to observe the patients constantly and eases the burden on the other doctorswho rotate shifts in the observation roomas she provides the lions share of the treatment. As a doctor, the battlefield can be everywhere, Zhang said in a petition she wrote when she volunteered for the job. She decided not to tell her husband about the petition, as he is a neurosurgeon at the same hospital and she didnt want him to worry about her. Zhang submitted her application on Jan  and quickly obtained approval from hospital authorities. That was when life began to get hectic.