Path of virus preliminarily contained
2020-02-22 04:03
Doctors celebrate after the discharge of the last two novel coronavirus pneumonia patients in Qinghai province at the No  Peoples Hospital of Qinghai in the provincial capital of Xining on Friday. All  confirmed patients in the province had recovered. MA?MINGYAN??CHINA?NEWS?SERVICE    Meeting presided over by Xi says allout efforts still needed on disease, economy The longterm outlook for the Chinese economy remains unchanged given its great potential despite the current effects of the novel coronavirus pneumonia epidemic, according to a key Party meeting held on Friday. Xi Jinping, general secretary of the Communist Party of China Central Committee and also president, presided over a meeting of the Political Bureau of the CPC Central Committee in which leaders discussed the prevention and control of the disease as well as work related to economic and social development. Since the outbreak of the disease, Xi has paid great attention to the situation, made prevention and control work a top priority and taken the lead in commanding and deploying that work, according to the meeting. The CPC Central Committee has issued relevant policies in a timely way, enhanced instruction over the prevention and control work in Hubei province, increased medical staff and the supplies of daily necessities and maintained economic order and social stability, according to the meeting. The epidemics momentum has been preliminary contained, with the number of newly diagnosed patients and suspected cases on an overall downward trend and at the same time with the number of cured patients increasing rapidly, according to the meeting. The inflection point of the disease is yet to come, and the situation in Hubei province and its capital, Wuhan, remains serious and complex, which requires the Party committee and government at all levels to keep on alert, according to the meeting. Allout efforts are needed to ensure that prevention and control work in Beijing and vulnerable areas should get greater attention, according to the meeting. Although the disease has an obvious influence, the favorable longterm outlook for the economy remains unchanged given its great potential, according to the meeting. Disease prevention work and economic development work must be handled well at the same time, and the influence of the disease should be lowered to the minimum level, according to the meeting. It also highlighted the importance of fulfilling the economic and social development goals for the year, securing victory in building a moderately prosperous society in all respects and reducing poverty. According to the meeting, work and production previously affected by the disease should be resumed in an orderly way to make sure workers, materials and capital flow steadily and the economy operates smoothly. The Party committee and government at all levels should proactively serve migrant workers to assist their travel across different regions so they can resume their work, according to the meeting. The countrys three major tasks  poverty reduction, pollution treatment and prevention of financial risks  were stressed at the meeting. The government should give priority to migrant workers in povertystricken regions to help them return to their jobs, according to the meeting. The meeting also pledged to offer more financial support for the real economy, especially companies from key industries as well as small and mediumsize enterprises. Those businesses seriously affected by the disease, such as hotels, restaurants, culture and sports venues, transportation and tourism, should be helped with targeted measures, according to the meeting. The importance of international cooperation in the economic and trade sector was also stressed at the meeting. Major companies with export business should be supported to resume their production as soon as possible, according to the meeting. During the meeting, the works of promoting employment, guaranteeing the livelihood of poor people, stabilizing commodity prices and helping those who sacrificed in the battle against the disease were also stressed.