Pandemictested ChinaAfrica brotherhood to embrace brighter future
2021-01-04 16:12
State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi. PhotoXinhua    Chinese State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi leaves Beijing on Monday for his official visit to Africa, carrying on a tradition of  years that a Chinese foreign minister begins a year of overseas tours in Africa. In spite of the raging COVID pandemic across the continent, Wang will visit Nigeria, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Botswana, Tanzania and Seychelles, highlighting the great importance China attaches to its relations with Africa and demonstrating their enduring friendship in weal and woe. Dominating the year of , the COVID pandemic has left the world lasting scars both in disastrous mortality and economic loss, yet the onceinacentury epidemic also witnessed ChinaAfrica brotherhood strengthened in their joint efforts to fight the virus. During the most difficult time in Chinas fight against the coronavirus last year, more than  African leaders sent messages of condolences and valuable support to China. After COVID broke out in Africa, China took the lead in providing Africa with a large amount of antiepidemic materials and sending medical teams to  African countries. China has been adhering to the principles of sincerity, real results, affinity and good faith in its policy toward Africa. In , China has started to help the construction of the Headquarters of the African Centers for Disease Control and Prevention ahead of schedule, honoring its commitment made at the Extraordinary ChinaAfrica Summit on Solidarity Against COVID. On the economic front, China signed debt service suspension agreements with  African countries and reduced or waived the interestfree loans of  African nations due at the end of , becoming the biggest helper in terms of relieving African debt among the Group of . China and Africa  the largest developing country and the largest developing continent, have always adhered to the principle of mutual benefit and winwin cooperation on the basis of equality and respect, setting a good example for SouthSouth cooperation. The year of , which marks the th anniversary of the Forum on ChinaAfrica Cooperation FOCAC, has opened a new era of political mutual trust and comprehensive cooperation between the two sides. In the past two decades, Africa has built more than , km of railways, , km of roads, nearly  ports and more than  major power facilities within the framework of Belt and Road Initiative BRI, the ten cooperation plans and the eight initiatives proposed by China. Also during that period, twoway trade has increased  times, and Chinas direct investment in Africa has increased  times, helping to draw Africa into an upward trajectory to prosperity. ChinaAfrica cooperation, especially under the BRI, has offered the developing continent a real China opportunity. Furthermore, China and the African Union have recently signed an agreement to promote the BRI in Africa, which will effectively synergize the initiative with Africas Agenda , a blueprint for transforming Africa into a global powerhouse of the future. In , challenges remain ahead, yet beams of hope will light up the future. Trading under the African Continental Free Trade Area AfCFTA that covers more than . billion people started on Friday, a landmark for Africas transformation and development, also providing a golden opportunity for China and Africa to tap into their economic potentials. For the new year, China and Africa have set clear targets in their cooperation roadmap. Senegal will cochair this years FOCAC meetings. China will work with Africa on the three priority areas of vaccine cooperation, economic recovery and transformative development. Unfolding the new year, Wangs visit is not only passing on a tradition but also demonstrating Chinas resolution to strengthen bonds with Africa and boost confidence in African countries future development. Bringing Chinas support and experience in fighting the pandemic and poverty, Wangs visit will also enhance African countries confidence and efforts in their own fights against similar difficulties, inject new vitality into ChinaAfrica cooperation and bring their relations to new heights.