Overseas students have faith in Chinas vaccines
2021-06-02 10:00
When Loay Hafiz, a yearold college student in Beijing, heard the news that overseas students in the city were eligible to receive free COVID vaccinations in April, he immediately enrolled via an online platform.A day later, he received his first dose of the Sinovac vaccine at a private hospital after signing a consent form for the injection. The form includes warnings such as advising people with certain diseases not to receive the vaccination and its possible side effects.Naturally I agreed, said Hafiz, from Sudan, who is studying for a masters degree in international business at the University of International Business and Economics. I trust the vaccine and I trust Chinas healthcare system. I have seen China vaccinate many of its people and students, and Chinese vaccines have proved effective and been rolled out across the globe. I cannot see a reason why I cannot take one.Hafiz said many other overseas students at the university have also received a COVID vaccination or are planning to get a shot.In total, about  international students at UIBE have received at least one COVID dose in China, while others are planning to get a shot, said Shi Rui, assistant president of the universitys International School.Dannis Barasa Masibo from Kenya, who studies at the university, said he plans to sign up for the vaccination so he can feel safe when he travels.All vaccines may produce side effects, and that is normal, he said. But the COVID vaccines have been administered to so many people and are safe. Receiving the shots will also facilitate my travel in the future.Authorities in many places in China have extended provision of COVID vaccination to expats, including students from overseas, in recent months. In Beijing, more than , foreigners had received at least one shot by May , data from the municipal government showed. In Shanghai, more than , doses had been administered to foreigners living in the city as of midMay, the Shanghai Health Commission said.Across the Chinese mainland,  million COVID vaccine doses had been administered by the end of May, according to the National Health Commission. China has also donated or exported COVID vaccines to dozens of countries, providing more than  million doses globally.Manson Chanyungunya, from Zimbabwe, who is studying for a PhD in business administration at UIBE, said he is happy to have the chance to get vaccinated in Beijing and to see that many of his compatriots back home have received Chinese vaccines.Hafiz said he has been impressed by the victory of the Chinese people and the government over the novel coronavirus.At the beginning of the COVID epidemic early last year people would ask me if I should go back home before it gets severe. I used to tell them I trust this countrys education system so I came here to pursue my studies therefore, I believe that they will be able to win the battle against COVID. And actually, this country has not disappointed any of my expectations, Hafiz said.The government and universities have implemented epidemic prevention and control measures in a highly efficient way, such as body temperature checks in all universities and distribution of masks to students in dormitories, he said.Nancy Lohalo, from the Democratic Republic of Congo, who is pursuing a PhD in international trade and economics at UIBE, said she will try to get vaccinated after completing her thesis defense in May. Having studied and lived in China for  years, Lohalo said she feels at home in the country.Recalling the first days of the COVID epidemic in China early last year, she said she felt very frightened at first as people did not have any knowledge of the new virus. However, she now feels secure after the epidemic was contained quickly through effective prevention and control measures. I am really grateful that I am in such a safe environment, she said.