Overseas cooperation to create better trade conditions
2020-02-11 09:13
A US cargo ship docks at the Qingdao Port, Shandong province. Photo by Yu ShaoyueFor China Daily    China wants closer international cooperation to overcome the novel coronavirus epidemic and create better conditions for global trade, the Ministry of Commerce said on Monday. The country has taken a number of measures to stabilize domestic trade and solve the issues faced by foreignfunded enterprises, said Gao Feng, the ministrys spokesman. Governments at both central and local levels have introduced policies to support exporters with adequate prevention and control materials to resume production, he said. The official stressed that it is unnecessary to take intervention measures in global trade at present, as China has taken practical measures to minimize the impact caused by the epidemic outbreak. The country has the confidence and ability to win the battle against the epidemic. The World Health Organization also spoke highly of Chinas efforts and stressed that restricting trade flow is not recommended. Since the st ChinaEU Summit in  has agreed to finalize the ChinaEU investment treaty by , Gao said both sides will follow the instructions given by their leaders to complete the negotiations within this year. They will maintain the good momentum of the negotiations and proceed in the same direction on the issue of differences, so as to reach an early agreement that will benefit the businesses and people of the two sides as soon as possible, he said. The European Union will allocate  million euros . million for coronavirus research and provide  metric tons of supplies to China as part of an emergency response to help Chinas fight against the epidemic, according to the European Union Chamber of Commerce in China. Even though foreign trade currently is affected to a certain extent, the key export provinces such as Guangdong, Jiangsu, and Zhejiang have not been severely affected by the epidemic, and the virus does not transmit via goods, said Chen Wenling, chief economist at Beijingbased China Center for International Economic Exchanges. Based on the current condition, she predicted that the epidemic is expected to be controlled before the end of February, and consumption will resume normally, and even rebound. More than , companies have booked exhibition areas for the third China International Import Expo, accounting for more than  percent of the exhibition places that have been signed. The third CIIE will take place in Shanghai from Nov  to Nov . The CIIE organizer will prepare noncontact methods, such as phone calls, video calls and emails in response to the novel coronavirus epidemic, according to the CIIE bureau.