Over  PLA troops vie in International Army Games
2021-08-25 07:53
Military vehicles of the Chinese Peoples Liberation Army arrive in Moscow, Russia, Aug , . PhotoXinhua    The Chinese military has sent  teams with a total of more than  troops to participate in competitions of the International Army Games  in Russia, China, Belarus, Uzbekistan and Iran. All of the major services of the Peoples Liberation Army have organized teams to take part in the games, the eighth since . For the first time, the PLA Strategic Support Force and the Joint Logistics Support Force have sent teams to the games events in foreign countries, and they will compete in contests for military topographic services and military drivers. Russian President Vladimir Putin declared the opening of this years games in a Moscow suburb on Monday. The event serves as a good opportunity to test the participants tactical training and skills in using weapons and equipment, Putin said in an address at the opening ceremony. The contests make a significant contribution to direct communication between military professionals, the development of trust and partnership, and peace and international security, said the president. The games involve more than , troops from  teams sent by  countries and regions, taking part in  contests over two weeks. As part of this years games, the PLA will host and participate in three contests in Korla in northwestern Chinas Xinjiang Uygur autonomous region. Currently, more than  members of the PLA Navy Marine Corps are in the Russian city of Vladivostok for the Seaborne Assault competition. They will compete with troops from Russia, Iran, Venezuela and other countries in obstacle course, survival trail and relay events. CNS Guangyuan, a newgeneration corvette, will participate in the Sea Cup competition in Vladivostok in events such as primary gun firing at sea and eliminating floating mines with auxiliary guns. Our participation will generate overall benefits in military communications and training through livefire exercises and contests in the games, said Captain Cai Cen from the PLA Navy General Staffs Training Bureau. It will also bring us useful experience in organizing and participating in multilateral military competitions under epidemic prevention and control measures, he said. The officer said the PLA Navy has been actively participating in the International Army Games and hosted the Seaborne Assault competition in  in Quanzhou, southeast Chinas Fujian province. Besides the PLA Navy, the PLA Ground Forces Type B tanks are taking part in this years Masters of Automobile and Tank Hardware competition at the Alabino training range outside Moscow. The PLA Air Force also sent some of Chinas most advanced military aircraft to Russias Dubrovichi training ground in the Ryazan region, including JB fighter jets, J fighter jets and Y large transport aircraft. These three aircraft will make their debuts at the games, while the HK bombers and the Y tactical transport aircraft have been taking part in the competition since , sources said.