Over  officials punished for delinquency in epidemic control
2021-08-13 07:35
A medical worker registers information of residents at a nucleic acid testing spot in Nanjing, capital of East Chinas Jiangsu province, July , . PhotoXinhua    Vicepremier calls for greater diligence, strict enforcement of quarantine rules Chinese governments at different levels punished more than  officials across the nation for failing to properly perform duties in COVID control in support of stringent measures against the virus. The antigraft body in Nanjing, Jiangsu province, announced recently that three officials working at the citys Lukou subdistrict had been detained by discipline inspection authorities on suspicion of serious violations of Party discipline and laws for allegedly failing to perform duties effectively as required to contain the virus. The Nanjing Lukou International Airport, located in the subdistrict, was found negligent in sanitation and changeofclothing protocols when monitoring its cabin cleaners, which caused Chinas most severe coronavirus outbreak since the epidemic subsided last year. On Wednesday, Yangzhou reported  new confirmed cases, more than any other city. While Nanjing has reported  locally transmitted cases since July , the COVID tally in Yangzhou has risen to  in that period. VicePremier Sun Chunlan emphasized the need for more diligent efforts and resolute measures to contain the virus in Yangzhou. Sun, also a member of the Political Bureau of the Communist Party of China Central Committee, made the remarks when she inspected Yangzhou on Wednesday. She asked the Yangzhou government to increase efficiency and coordination, and to show a great sense of responsibility and do a better job. Sun also called for better management for nucleic acid testing, strict enforcement of quarantine measures for highrisk people and communities and asked the city to open more quarantine stations. Sun met with Lou Qinjian, Jiangsus Party secretary, Governor Wu Zhenglong and relevant departments to analyze the current epidemic situation to improve the virus control work. Also in Yangzhou, eight officials were given punishments on Sunday that ranged from administrative demerits to notices of criticism for failing to contain the virus effectively. On Saturday, six officials in Nanjing, including ViceMayor Hu Wanjin, were also given punishments. In Guangzhou, Guangdong province, two vicemayors were among  Party and government officials disciplined after the COVID outbreak in relation to imported cases between May  and June , the Guangdong Commission for Discipline Inspection said on Thursday. As of Thursday, officials in Zhengzhou, Henan province, Yantai, Shandong province, and Zhangjiajie, Hunan province, had received punishments from disciplinary watchdogs for improperly dealing with the epidemic. The punishments were given for officials failure to act aggressively enough against the coronavirus, the commission said. China has carried out effective containment methods for more than a year since COVID broke out, Hu Yinglian, a professor at the Chinese Academy of Governance, told China Daily. Some local officials are reluctant to implement the policy. ... Its not the fault of the decisionmaking at the policy level, but ineffective implementation in practice that resulted in the transmission of the virus to many Chinese cities. Case by case, these examples warn us never to relax, he said. Disease containment is essential to economic development and peoples livelihoods at this specific stage. The CPC and Chinese government will always put peoples health as top priority even at the expense of huge economic losses. At a news conference early this month, Zhang Wenhong, head of the Center for Infectious Diseases at Huashan Hospital of Fudan University in Shanghai, saidIt is not the first time that China has fought against the Delta variant. We successfully contained the outbreak in Guangzhou, and the outbreak in Nanjing is gradually being brought under control. Chinas past experience in prevention, control and treatment has been effective so far, Zhang stressed. On Wednesday, the Chinese mainland recorded  local cases in Hubei, seven in Hunan, and three each in Henan and Yunnan, the National Health Commission said on Thursday.