Over , PLA medical personnel working in Wuhan
2020-03-02 11:32
Military medics arrive at Tianhe International Airport in Wuhan on Feb , . Photo by Chen XiaodongFor China Daily    The Peoples Liberation Army has dispatched over , medical personnel to aid epidemic control efforts in Wuhan since January , Major General Chen Jingyuan, the head of the Health Bureau of the Logistic Support Department of the Central Military Commission, said on Monday.? The  designated hospitals operated by the military across the country have organized nearly , beds for patients and over , medical staff members are working on the frontline, he said during a news briefing in Beijing.? As of Sunday, three such hospitals in Wuhan  the Wuhan Huoshenshan Hospital, Taikang Tongji Hospital, and Fuyou Guanggu Hospital  had treated , patients in critical conditions, and  such patients had been cured. The Huoshenshan Hospital saw the highest number of recovered patients,  cases.? In total, the military medical staff members have treated , patients, out of which , have been discharged after being cured, he said, adding no medical employee has been infected.? As for medical supply, the PLA has allocated , medical face masks, , hazmat suits and other medical equipment to Wuhan. The military cargo planes of the PLA Air Force have made  trips to Wuhan transporting daily necessities.? As of Sunday, the PLA Central Theater Command, which covers Hubei province, had dispatched  transport vehicles and  personnel dedicated to supplying Wuhan, transporting more than , metric tons of goods and , medical equipment.? Around , militia members are working daily in  provinces to assist in their local areas prevention efforts, including documenting visitors, sanitizing environments, transporting goods and educating the public.? The Academy of Military Medical Sciences, along with other research institutions, has jointly developed the nucleic acid diagnosis kit that has been used since late January. A more effective version was approved on Sunday and would soon enter clinical application, he said.