Outbreak wont affect nations goals for developing
2020-02-12 09:15
Beijings CBD area. PhotoVCG    The year  is of significance for China. First, it began with the spread of the novel coronavirus, which was first discovered in Wuhan, Hubei province. With travel bans deterring people from moving across regions, economic activities have weakened throughout the country. As a result, some of the annual indicators of development may be lower than expected. Second, it is the year in which several economic and social development goals are scheduled to be accomplished. These include doubling GDP and per capita disposal incomes of rural and urban residents compared with  levels, and alleviating absolute poverty in rural areas. Third, it is a year when the world economy is looking to China amid the sluggish growth in global GDP and trade because of reverse globalization, Brexit and trade wars. In , the world economy grew . percent and the Chinese economy by . percent. China contributed . percent to global GDP growth, while its share in the world economy increased from . percent to . percent. Questions have been raised by economists, businesspeople and observers about what the Chinese economy would be like in the rest of  after the coronavirus epidemic. Although it is too early to predict the performance of the Chinese economy for the whole year, certain conclusions can be drawn based on analysis of the longterm fundamentals of the Chinese economy and potential impact of the epidemic. First, the negative impact of the epidemic on the economy is significant, given the coronaviruss fastspreading nature, but it will fade once the epidemic is contained. The virusrelated lockdown in cities and restraints on movements across regions lead to undesirable consequences, such as repression of household consumption and underproduction in small and mediumsized enterprises, which bring down the GDP growth rate. However, economic growth will pick up favorably in the second quarter and confidently in the third quarter. Second, the government has a range of macroeconomic policy tools that already have been deployed to shield the economy from the present shock. Chinas GDP was . trillion yuan . trillion in  and it expects to reach . trillion yuan in . To achieve this goal, a growth rate of . percent to . percent is needed. It also needs to increase household income from the , yuan in  to , yuan. Based on the income levels reached in , this can be achieved through an easily achievable growth rate of . percent. As for the alleviation of rural poverty, it also can be achieved. Between  and , the average number of people lifted out of poverty each year was over  million, which left only . million to be lifted out of poverty this year. The novel coronavirus pneumonia outbreak in China does challenge the growth of the economy, posing a stumbling block to social development. Still, the outbreak will not prevent China from achieving its overall goal of completing the building of a comprehensive welloff society in the same year nor will it hurt the sustainable growth capacity of the Chinese economy in the long run.