Outbreak exposes US economic flaws
2020-05-07 07:14
SHI YUCHINA DAILY    There is nothing like a pandemic to expose systemic differences. For China and the United States, which were locked in an ideologically driven competition even before the novel coronavirus epidemic broke out, those differences are stark. But the two countries will still need to rethink their social contracts after the pandemic is contained. To prevent the transmission of the virus, China and the US have implemented socialdistancing measures, whichtogether with the unemployment they producehave broken the cycle of earning and spending that sustains global growth. The International Monetary Fund estimates that world GDP will contract by  percent this year. Chinas GDP shrank by . percent in the first quarter of this year. Yet the type of public health measures the two countries have pursuedand their outcomesare sharply divergent. Chinas stringent lockdowns produced a dramatic decline in new cases, whereas the US delayed and fragmented response allowed infections, and the death toll, to mount. Growth models shaped response to outbreak This divergence is often attributed to political differences Chinas central planning allows for more resolute action. But this explanation misses the extent to which the US and Chinese growth models have shaped their responsesand the financial and economic effects. In the US, decades of neoliberal policies have led to a dependence on debtfinanced consumption. Americans saved little but borrowed a lot. And so did the US government, thanks to the exorbitant privilege afforded by the US dollars position as the leading global reserve currency. As a result, fiscal and currentaccount deficits swelled. Inflation, however, remained low, even when the US Federal Reserve pursued expansionary policies, largely because of the positive supply shocks produced by the integration of China and other developing countries into the global economy. The Fed is taking that route again during the pandemic, slashing interest rates and expanding its balance sheet by more than . trillion in the past weeks to prevent a systemic liquidity shortage. The US financial system has also built up excessive leverage, while becoming increasingly disconnected from the real economy. Wall Street companies trade among themselves, rather than serving Main Street, and corporations rely more on capital markets than on banks. US uses lessefficient payment methods Moreover, despite advancements in electronic payments, households and small businesses continue to operate mainly in less efficient cash, paper checks, and credit cards. And the US Treasury is delivering pandemic stimulus payments through direct deposits and mailed checks. Technology platforms have capitalized on this debtdriven growth model, pushing endless consumption by usersthrough, say, targeted adswith less concern for supporting those attempting to generate income online. The gig economy exemplifies this oneway dynamic a platform such as Uber is optimized for sales and provides workers with the bare minimum of training and protection, while regulators take a handsoff approach. It has long been clear that the US model is financially, environmentally, andgiven skyrocketing inequalitysocially unsustainable. But the coronavirus pandemic has shown that any disruption of the debtconsumption cycle threatens to trigger collapse almost immediately as soon as incomes are interrupted, private financial institutions curtail credit fearing nonperforming loans, while consumption plummets, depleting incomes further. To stave off disaster, the Fed and Treasury must step in, shifting credit risks to the public sector balance sheet. The Chinese model avoids many of these pitfalls. Apart from high savings, China has relied on exports and investment, rather than unsustainable levels of domestic consumption, to fuel growth. Also, innovative technology platformsespecially in financial technologyhave linked the traditional economy with a broadly accessible digital ecosystem that encourages users both to consume and earn, thereby boosting the Chinese economys structural and organizational resilience. Tech platforms built inclusive networks These are the results not of central planning, but of continuous experimentation on the ground and adaptation based on bottomup feedback. It was tech platforms, not central planners, which developed inclusive networks that fostered innovation, created new markets and generated jobs. Regulators merely facilitated it. The global public health crisis has underscored the benefits of this approach. Chinese super app ecosystems create sustainable, circular digital earnspendpay business models that merge business and consumer functions and are far more broadbased than Western models, which are still segmented by sectoral regulations. During the lockdown in China, Alibaba, Pinduoduo and other marketplaces became a lifeline for many small and micro business owners, keeping them connected to millions of domestic and international consumers. Online logistics companies, such as JD.com, were also critical, as they ensured the delivery of essential goods throughout the lockdown. Tencents WeChat, a social media platform, enabled people to stay in touch with their families and friends during the lockdown, while allowing some creative individuals to earn incomes from blogs and vlogs. Payments were sent via WeChat Pay. WeChat also enabled the government to relay critical messages to the public, and facilitated the coordination of complex projects, such as the delivery of critical medical equipment and supplies. Tencents Meeting app allowed schools to continue operating through online classrooms. As lockdowns are eased, software installed in WeChat and Alipay, Alibabas online payment platform, is being used to monitor residents health and determine where they can go. This is possible because of these platforms reach one or both of these apps is already installed on nearly every smartphone in China. Smartphones used in productive ways So, on top of the hierarchical traditional banking system, China has developed a flat, adaptive system connecting  million domestic smartphones in productive ways. This is a crucial element of Chinas broader hybridcircular savingsconsumptiondebtincome model, which is more resilient than the Western model of debtfinanced consumption. Indeed, it is a major reason why Chinas financial sector did not confront severe liquidity shortages that warranted a drastic central bank response during the economys lockdown. As Chinas development model continues to evolve, it could become a fully circular system that fosters the creation of economic, social and natural capital, rather than simply consuming it. But success will depend on the development of a more inclusive postpandemic social contracta process that could easily be disrupted by the relentless ideological and geopolitical rivalry with the US. Yet the US has its own social contract to update, especially by bolstering inclusiveness and resilience. As with China, the key will be to strike the right balance between large corporations and small businesses, individual privacy and big data, and shortterm efficiency and longterm riskmanagement. But, for that to happen, political grandstanding must give way to rational, informed, and inclusive exchanges. Judging by the US response to the coronavirus pandemic, that is far from guaranteed. Andrew Sheng is a distinguished fellow at the Asia Global Institute of the University of Hong Kong and a member of the UNEP Advisory Council on Sustainable Finance. And Xiao Geng, president of the Hong Kong Institution for International Finance, is a professor at and director of the Research Institute of Maritime SilkRoad at Peking University HSBC Business School. Project Syndicate The views dont necessarily reflect those of China Daily. ?