Online shopping provides materials
2020-03-26 10:13
A woman promotes tangelos, a hybrid citrus fruit, via livestreaming in Huichang, Jiangxi province, on Feb , . Photo by Zhu HaipengFor China Daily    Although the coronavirus outbreak has prevented Wang Baiqing from going to the market, he has ordered  metric tons of fertilizer online, which will be delivered directly to his fields. I dont think the epidemic will affect my farming business a lot, he said. Wang is a farmer in the city of Wuchang, famous for its fragrant rice, in Heilongjiang province, the countrys largest grain producer, where there are . million hectares of arable land. More vigorous development of an already thriving ecommerce sector is changing farmers modes of production, and the advance has become more evident during the outbreak when farmers are preparing their spring plowing online as they know the season waits for no one. I thought this years plowing would be delayed as we couldnt buy agricultural materials in the market like we used to, said Wu Jintang, a grain farmer in Heilongjiang, who aims to plant  hectares of corn and more than  hectares of soybeans this year. Online shopping has made everything easier. Through a few clicks, Ive prepared enough chemical fertilizers and seeds, the yearold added. Qi Xieli, assistant to the general manager of Beifeng Agricultural Production Means Group, which accounts for more than half of chemical fertilizer sales in Heilongjiang, said the company has about  million tons of chemical fertilizers for the spring farming season. We also provide online services for agricultural materials, he added. Launched on Jan , the companys online mall has registered more than , orders, with its online business volume totaling over  million yuan  million. Local authorities are urging farmers and all types of businesses to work in an orderly manner, according to a circular issued by the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Affairs on Feb . The circular stressed support for manufacturers of agricultural materials to resume production as soon as possible, increase market supply and ensure demand will be met during the spring plowing season. So far, , agricultural materials manufacturers and stores in Heilongjiang have launched online sales operations. In response, farmers have ordered more than , tons of seeds, over , tons of pesticides and , tons of fertilizers online. To avoid large gatherings, authorities in the city of Heihe have organized experts to conduct training for farmers via the internet, providing information and solving problems. Weve introduced  industrial innovation systems in the province, with  experts, to provide remote agricultural training and guidance to farmers online, said Li Shirun, an official with the provincial department of agriculture and rural affairs. Xinhua