Tireless rescue official honored as hero model
2021/11/19 9:39
Shan Yuhou second from left visits a food company in Tianjin to check epidemic prevention work on Feb  last year. CHINA DAILY Shan Yuhou, an emergency management official who died in his dormitory last year in Tianjin, was honored as a firstclass hero model in the field at a nationallevel conference on Nov . Before his death at the age of , Shan was vicechairman of Binhai New Areas committee of the Chinese Peoples Political Consultative Conference and Party chief of the coastal areas emergency management bureau. His passing on the morning of Feb  last year made headlines, as his tireless efforts during the COVID epidemic had been noteworthy. Shan, who had undergone heart surgery and had two stents implanted, ignored his health and often worked for days without rest. Hed had little rest in his final  hours and had taken on various tasks, including finding and assigning epidemic prevention materials, such as face masks, protective suits and goggles, infrared thermometers and disinfectant, for residents and businesses. His cousin, Du Wenwu, said that while he was collecting Shans personal belongings, he found a paper among his clothes, which read,The number of staff members needs to increase from  to urgent! His coworker, Zhang Jinkuan, Party chief of the command center at Binhais emergency management bureau, said Shan and I had a work schedule ... We would call each other at  am every day to discuss upcoming tasks, while our last daily call or WeChat messages to each other was often at around  am. They had discussed the arrangement and collection of emergency materials the night before he died, Zhang said. He recalled Shan mentioning that the bureau should check with companies about their epidemic prevention material needs, and send them the items in a timely manner. Tong Juhe, another of Shans colleagues and who is director of the bureaus investigation office said, He had been sleeping between two and three hours a day since the epidemic outbreak, and he never went home, living only at the bureau dormitory. Yang Jian, Shans wife, saidDuring the period, it was hard for me to call him while he was working at the office. He worked for many days without returning home. Among his most prominent tasks was leading a major emergency rescue operation on Jan , the eve of the Spring Festival holiday, last year. That day, a cruise liner, the Costa Serena, was set to arrive in Tianjin with some , passengers and , crew members. The crew told Tianjin port authorities that several people onboard were showing signs of fever. Upon hearing the news, Shan arranged for medical workers to conduct tests on the ship. After the samples were collected, they were loaded onto a helicopter and flown to the Tanggu Airport nearby. Special police vehicles waiting there then delivered the samples to local disease prevention authorities. Though all the passengers tested negative, they were still sent to designated hotels for quarantine. The Costa Serena control and prevention effort sharply contrasted with others involving cruise liners at sea. For example, on Feb  last year, the Diamond Princess ordered its , passengers to stay aboard for two weeks after it had returned to Yokohama, Japan. Nearly  passengers were confirmed COVID positive, and six died, according to Japanese broadcaster NHK. Shan also took part in many other major tasks unrelated to the epidemic. In , he arranged , risk prevention inspections at local companies, prompted renovations at , production sites and closed  companies with potential hazards. In August , when Typhoon Lekima hit Binhai, Shan worked at the bureaus command center for an entire week without leaving.