Challenges await EU on the road to carbon neutrality
2021/3/30 9:18
A woman wearing a mask rides a bike following the new social restrictions announced by the Dutch government, as the Netherlands battle to control the spread of the coronavirus disease COVID, in Amsterdam, Netherlands on October , .  The European Union aims to become carbon neutral by  and plans to reduce carbon emissions by  percent by , compared with  levels. This is not going to be easy. The EUs initial CO emissions reduction goal for  under JeanClaude Juncker, the European Commission president until , was set at  percent. In September last year, the EC raised the goal to  percent. The difference is significant, amounting to  million metric tons of carbon each year, which is only slightly less than Germanys total annual emissions. The major burden will fall on road transportation, shipping and aviation, and the construction and buildings sector, as well as poor and coaldependent countries. Bringing all this togetherthe nightmare just begins, said one senior European Commission official. First of all, financing will be a challenge. The European Commission has pledged  trillion euros . trillion in green investments over this decade. The EUs pandemic recovery plan Next Generation EU as well as the EUs  budget foresee  percent of financial resources linked to the green transition. However, the European Parliament, and especially members of the European Green Party, consider these financial targets to be too low, thus questioning whether a green transition will happen in real terms. Second, a mix of policies will be needed to achieve the EUenvisioned carbon neutral future. The European Green Deal foresees a number of policy tools being used related to industry, mobility, energy, greener buildings, agriculture and food systems, biodiversity, and a circular economy that aims for the elimination of waste and pollution and the continual use of resources. Since the EU does not have a common climate or energy policy, the success of the green transition will depend largely on diverse national policies and differing circumstances. In , the total carbon footprint of the EUs  members was equal to . metric tons of CO per capita. But the footprint of individual countries varied widely, from . tons for Luxembourg to . tons for Estonia, . tons for Malta and . tons for Sweden. Germanys emissions equaled . tons, which was above the average, and Frances hit . tons, below the average. The EU aims for a threepillar approach that focuses on resource efficiency, carbon pricing and international cooperation. Joseph Stiglitz, a US economist, Nobel laureate and professor at Columbia University, has suggested that market instruments, namely carbon pricinga cost applied to carbon pollution to encourage polluters to reduce emissionsshould be the central element of the green transition, providing signals for investment, innovation and decarbonized operations. Carbon pricing is related to emission trading schemes, which have to be developed. The most globally developed emission trading program, established in  by the EU, covers around  percent of the EUs greenhouse gas emissions. It limits emissions from more than , heavy energy users, including power stations, industrial plants and airlines. Emissions covered by the EUs emission trading program declined by about  percent between  and . The transportation and building sectors, not yet covered, are expected to enter the system following proposals to be ready by June. Beatriz Yordi Aguirre, director of the European and International Carbon Markets at the European Commission, called the EUs emission trading program a pillar. She said it has worked very well for the past four years and should be expanded to other sectors that are not performing so well as we would like, adding that despite the COVID crisis, carbon prices have remained stable. The major concerns are the carbon price itself and market readiness. The EUs emission trading program started with a price of  euros per ton of CO, which, due to reform in , grew to a minimum of  euros per ton and a maximum of  euros per ton. That is expected to increase during the decade to about  euros per ton, which is still considered to be too low. Stiglitz, the US economist, has suggested that the carbon price be as high as  euros per ton in order to work as the driver and regulator of the green transition. Peter Liese, a member of the European Parliament, also favors the strengthening of market measures such as the EUs emission trading program, as well as additional efforts in agriculture, technology and transportation. He said that from  to , the EU has reduced CO emissions by  percent, but in the next nine years needs to reduce emissions more than in the past  years. Meanwhile, Ottmar Edenhofer, director of the Potsdam Institute for Climate Impact Research, and Georg Zachmann of the Brusselsbased think tank Bruegel, recently proposed two EU emission trading systems the current one and a new one for the transportation and building sectors. Under their proposal, the new program would start with a much higher carbon price, and both systems would converge by . Their suggestion also foresees a redistribution aspect of new carbon pricing, with funds directed to socially vulnerable groups to ensure a just and fair transition. The author is a European economist working on the green transition and a former European Commission official. The views do not necessarily reflect those of China Daily.