Digging up publicity
2021/3/30 7:35
The excavation site of pit No  at Sanxingdui Ruins, Sichuan province, in March. China Social Sciences Press has disseminated information about the new discoveries and archaeological findings, along with their relevant research, in print and other media. Photo by Xiang YuFor China Daily Books to record surge in interest around excavations as important findings whet publics appetite. Just a week before exciting findings, including a golden mask, were announced at the Sanxingdui Ruins site in Guanghan, Sichuan province, a leading publishing house decided to set up an archaeology workshop to help record achievements and provide resources for more to study. Since the beginning of the millennium, there has been a surge of new excavations, and the number of largescale digging sites are rising in the country, says Zhao Jianying, president of the China Social Sciences Press, part of the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences. We feel obliged and responsible to take up the task of presenting them in book form, as well as in other ways, Zhao says. The press is known for its previous publications of tomes like the ninevolume Chinese Archaeology. Zhao says the press has published hundreds of titles on archaeology since its establishment in , among which were awardwinners such as those honored with the Chinese Government Award for Publishing. With our author base and editorial strength, the new workshop is set to open up a broader horizon for the study of archaeology, Zhao says.Well input more funds and more personnel. The workshop is a response to President Xi Jinpings call to develop archaeology to better understand Chinese civilization during a meeting in September , Zhao says. Xi called for strengthened dissemination of archaeological and historical research findings through an indepth study of history. He urged further efforts to guide the people, especially young people, to better understand the origin and development history of Chinese civilization, says a Xinhua report. Wang Wei, with the Institute of Archaeology, and chairman of the Chinese Archaeological Society, is leading a project on the publication of a centennial history of Chinese archaeology, involving more than  leading experts in archaeology. All the important discoveries will be described by archaeologists who actually worked on the exact sites, making sure theyre authoritative and firsthand, according to Guo Peng, director of the workshop under the press. Guo notes that the advanced technology the archaeologists are applying, including remote sensing and carbon testing, is another aspect the book addresses. The books are among hundreds of titles published by China Social Sciences Press in more than  years. Photo provided to China Daily Wang says the book in progress, a comprehensive and complete record, will be one of the workshops first achievements. Wang also hopes the press and its international publishing partners will make Chinese archaeological titles more visible and influential globally. Another book the workshop is doing is about national treasures.It will be an easyreading photo album covering volumes on jade, copper, ceramic wares and more,Guo says. Zhao mentions Chinese archaeological studies are trending toward meticulous, refined and diversified development. It begins to merge with multiple sciences, and stresses excavating as well as protection, with considerations on exhibition being included in advance. Liu Guoxiang, with the Institute of Archaeology, says contemporary archaeological research is closely related to the source of Chinese civilization and how Chinese people see their roots and culture. Liu adds that there are about , people nationwide involved in museums and the cultural relic sector, among which about , are archaeological professionals working onsite. The archaeology reports they publish on average have a print run of , to , copies, and the audience is limited because its not easy for general readers to get through the reports. So its important to maintain publishing of the formal reports, while trying some innovative ways of making them and other research findings more accessible and fun to a broader readership, Liu says. He suggests digital threedimensional images of the relics unearthed. Even a senior archaeologist like Liu, doesnt have access to some of the items needed in research. The digital images would be of great help. Liu, who oversees some of China Central Televisions archaeologythemed popular programs, knows the attraction of multimedia presentations. He also hints the possibility of publishing the multimedia products for the workshop under the press. Books and epublications are handy in promoting the public awareness and knowledge in archaeology, now that interest regarding archaeology is rising, he adds.