Rich nations said to impede pandemic fight
2021/3/29 10:43
Here are some of the most striking images from around the world over the past week. Stranded ship Ever Given, one of the worlds largest container ships, is seen after it ran aground, in Suez Canal, Egypt March , . At least  vessels are currently jammed around the Suez Canal awaiting salvage of the giant container ship Ever Given that has been stuck and blocking the vital waterway since Tuesday.  Jennifer Cunningham left and Zileen KieranJohnson hold each other during a moment of silence at the Colorado State Capitol during a discussion on gun violence in the wake of the Boulder shooting that took place on Monday at King Soopers, leaving ten dead, Denver Colorado, US March , .  A man wearing a samurai costume from Soma Nomaoi Festival wears a face mask as he attends the opening of a ceremony welcoming before the arrival of the torch bearer at Hibarigahara Festival Site, during the last leg of the first day of the Tokyo  Olympic torch relay, in Minamisoma, Fukushima prefecture, Japan, March , .  People inspect the damage after two trains collided near the city of Sohag, Egypt, March , . More than  were killed in the accident.  A man attends a protest against antiAsian hate crimes, racism and vandalism, outside City Hall in Toronto, Ontario, Canada, March , .  A man stops during his run to look at the Washington Monument next to blooming Japanese Cherry Blossom trees on the National Mall on March ,  in Washington, DC.  COVID vaccines are transferred at Tashkent International Airport in Tashkent, Uzbekistan, on March , . The first batch of Chinese coronavirus vaccines arrived in Uzbekistan Saturday.  Artificial treelike structures called Supertrees are seen before lights were switched off to commemorate Earth Hour, at Gardens By the Bay, in Singapore, March , .  People dance as coloured powder is thrown during Lathmar Holi celebrations, amidst the spread of the coronavirus disease COVID, in the town of Barsana, northern state of Uttar Pradesh, India, March , .  People perform during the outdoor arts and music festival CubaDupa in Wellington, New Zealand, March , . The Cuba Street Precinct in New Zealands capital here has come alive over the weekend as Chinese lion dances and traditional Chinese music adorned New Zealands largest outdoor arts and music festival CubaDupa. 