Chinas carbon goals strike a chord with Rio Tinto, CEO says
2021/3/29 10:17
A Google sign is shown at one of the companys office complexes in Irvine, California, US, July , .  Major US companies are recalling employees to the office a year after the coronavirus pandemic forced millions of them to work from home. Microsoft, Google, Walmart and others will adopt a hybrid model combining workfromhome with work in the office. Microsoft said last week it would begin allowing more workers back into its headquarters in Redmond, Washington, starting Monday. Kurt DelBene, an executive vicepresident at Microsoft, wrote on the companys blog As some employees return to our global work sites and others prefer or need to work remotely, we are finding additional ways of putting our hybrid workplace into practice. At each of our global work sites, the hybrid workplace model strikes a balance, providing limited additional services on campus for those who choose to return, while supporting those who need to work remotely or feel more comfortable doing so. In step four in its sixstep dial plan, the Redmond campus will allow , nonessential workers to work from home, the office or both. The company has approximately , employees. Microsoft will also continue to require employees to wear masks and maintain social distancing. Google is also taking a hybrid approach in getting people back to the office. It is testing out a flexible workweek. It also announced plans to hire , people this year for postpandemic business. They will be added to offices in Atlanta, Washington DC, Chicago and New York. The company said it will build new offices in Minnesota, Texas and North Carolina. Googles parent Alphabet also will invest  billion this year to expand its offices and data centers in the US. At least  billion will be spent in California. The Partnership for New York City said that as of early March, only  percent of the citys  million office workers were in offices. The business group said it expects nearly half of them to return to the office by September. In what is being seen as a move that may compel more private businesses in the city to bring their employees back to work, Mayor Bill de Blasio announced last week that , municipal office employees, including caseworkers, computer specialists and clerical staff, must return to work in phases starting May . The city said that vaccinations wont be mandatory for those returning. The wearing of face masks will be encouraged but wont be mandatory. Were going to make it safe, but we need our city workers back in their offices where they can do the most to help their fellow New Yorkers, de Blasio said. And its also going to send a powerful message about this city moving forward. In the citys financial sector, JPMorgan Chase will require summer interns to work in its Manhattan offices. Investment bank Morgan Stanley announced last week that it plans a full return to its Midtown headquarters, though some employees may be able to work remotely from time to time. In Manhattan, the amount of sublet office space that became available in  was  percent. It is now  percent of all space, according to Savills, the real estate firm. In the retail sector, Target is making remote work a part of its future. It will reduce a third of its work space at its headquarters in Minneapolis. Walmart, the countrys largest private employer, said it will expand its headquarters in Bentonville, Arkansas, and will allow workers on its technology team to work remotely indefinitely. In the US, hospital admissions and deaths due to COVID are declining nationwide, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention CDC. But getting office workers back to work will depend on people getting vaccinated. Approximately . million Americans have gotten at least one dose of a COVID vaccine, and  million, or . percent of the population, have been fully vaccinated, according to the CDC. Some companies are offering employees incentives  from paid time off to money to get the vaccines. They include ATT, Target, Trader Joes, Petco, Dollar General, Kroger and McDonalds. Marriott International Inc, the worlds largest lodging company, will provide the equivalent of four hours pay to employees at hotels it manages in the US and Canada, once the workers have completed the vaccination course. American Airlines will give an extra day off next year and . Amtrak is giving employees two hours of pay when they show proof of their vaccination, as well as excusing absences for those who get vaccinated during work hours. And Krispy Kreme Doughnuts is offering anyone with proof of a vaccination a free doughnut every day for the rest of the year.