The world in photos March
2021/3/29 9:50
A health worker takes a nasal swab sample from a man to test for COVID in Amritsar district of Punjab on Thursday.  Premature optimism may have had role in fresh wave of infections, experts say A new virus variant makes it more complex for India to fight COVID as the country experiences an alarming surge in new cases again despite growing numbers of vaccinations. The Ministry of Health and Family Welfare said a novel double mutant variant of the coronavirus had been detected. According to a genome sequencing and analysis of the samples collected from Maharashtra, Indias worst virusaffected state, there is an increase in the ratio of samples with the EQ and LR mutations compared with those in December. These mutations have been found in about  percent of samples, the ministry said. Sudhanshu Bankata, a doctor in New Delhi, said The situation is far from normal. In fact its alarming. The vaccination drive has to be sped up. The variant mutants could also be another reason behind the recent rise in cases, he said. However, V K Paul, chairperson of Indias COVID task force, said people should not worry about mutations. The occurrence of mutations is a natural process. The RNA strand of the virus will replicate and will make mistakes resulting in mutations. We have to only suppress the chain of transmission to stop mutations of the virus. Testing, quarantine and containment will limit the spread of the virus. The tally of confirmed cases in India rose by , to . million on Sunday, the biggest singleday rise since November, said the health ministry, with  deaths, the highest of this year, taking the death toll to ,. Indias caseload began to come down at the start of the year, with daily infections falling to less than , from a peak in September. In recent days several states have imposed stringent travel restrictions, and others have announced curfews. Maharashtra started to impose a curfew with effect from Sunday. Lax behavior Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said lax behavior in following safety protocols was to blame for the recent surge. With vaccines available now, people feel they should not wear masks, Vardhan said. Amitabha Nandy, former head of the department of the Calcutta School of Tropical Medicine and infectious disease specialist, said a false notion of optimism swept the country when the caseload was falling at the start of the year. There is a conflict between the imperatives of economic recovery and virus control in India, said Li Jiasheng, a researcher with the Center for AsiaEurope Studies at Xian Jiaotong University. The sharp rise in cases may be closely related to resuming work and production before conditions have been significantly improved. Commenting on reports that India is to make domestic inoculations a priority that may delay foreign deliveries, DirectorGeneral of the World Health Organization Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said the move is understandable. We are already in discussion to keep a balance so that they can use locally but ... continue to provide other countries vaccines from the Serum Institute of India. Aparajit Chakraborty is a freelance journalist for China Daily.