Curlers praise Beijings brilliant preparations
2021/10/27 0:00
Scottish curler Gregor Ewan is confident China is ready to stage a safe and successful Winter Paralympics after being impressed by what he has witnessed in the Chinese capital in recent days. Ewan is in Beijing to compete at the World Wheelchair Curling Championship, and after experiencing the facilities, services and pandemic prevention measures heaped praise on the hosts preparations. As Ive seen in China, the people of Beijing over the last couple of days have been wearing masks, cleaning and conducting sanitation work. They have done an extremely brilliant job and if this is what they are bringing to the worlds, I cant wait to see what they bring to the Paralympics to make it go ahead, Ewan said. Ewan won mixed doubles bronze at the  Sochi Paralympics for Britain, and the yearold is raring to go for glory again next March in Beijing. For me, its a great privilege to be able to represent my country at these Games, he said. Adding a tough victory over Canada on Monday to its sheet, Scotland temporarily climbed to the top of the standings after winning three out of the last four games. Its been a hard couple of days, but my team played really well. The ice is so good here, Ewan said of the competition area at the Ice Cube, the venue converted from the National Aquatics Center. Canadian curler Ina Forrest has also been highly impressed by everything she has seen during the Beijing  test event this week, especially the efficient transportation services. Were just amazed by how the buses coordinate to make it, so we make it on time, said Forrest. So we have all the confidence that going into Paralympics, there is such great support for us. I expect that there will be the same support for us next year again to help us get as ready as we can be and have a comfortable and successful competition here. Xinhua The Scottish team assembles on the ice during the World Wheelchair Curling Championship in Beijing on Saturday. XINHUA