West guilty of sanctimonious troublespeak China Daily editorial
2021/3/25 20:18
Video image taken on June ,  shows a session of the UN Human Rights Council in Geneva, Switzerland.  By setting themselves up as beacons for the protection of human rights, the USled Western countries have simply shone a light on their failure to practice what they preach. Which is why at the th regular session of the United Nations Human Rights Council, which concluded on Wednesday, the representatives from  countries and international organizations, having reviewed the human rights situation in the United States, made  recommendations for the improvement of its human rights situation, covering such issues as racial discrimination, life and health deprivations, and gun violence. A number of countries have also called upon the US, Australia, Canada and some members of the European Union to take measures against racism, police violence and racial discrimination only to have these criticisms lightly brushed off by US representatives as isolated cases. Yet as UN High Commissioner for Human Rights Michelle Bachelet observed, the pandemic has ripped the mask off the deadly realities of discrimination. Turning a blind eye to their own dark human rights records, the US and some of its allies have denigrated other countries under the pretext of democracy and human rights. Notably, they have tried to throw mud at China over issues related to Xinjiang and Hong Kong during the UNHRC session, although their unfounded accusations failed to stick and sparked an outcry from many righteous countries. On March , Cuba delivered a joint statement on behalf of  countries at the meeting, which praised China for its human rights achievements. Earlier on March , Belarus delivered a joint speech on behalf of  countries at the same venue, emphasizing that Hong Kong affairs are Chinas internal affairs and should not be interfered in by external forces. In fact, issues related to Xinjiang and Hong Kong are in essence about countering terrorism and separatism. There has never been socalled genocide, forced labor or religious oppression in Xinjiang. And the national security law in Hong Kong closes the legal loopholes to better safeguard security and stability in the special administrative region. Over the years, China has followed a peoplecentered concept in human rights, which has helped usher in the most eyecatching achievements in protecting and advancing human rights in the worlds most populous country. It is high time that Western countries brought their human rights actions in line with the UN Charter and dropped their condescension. The moral high ground they claim is built on sand. The healthy development of international human rights can only be achieved through cooperation on human rights based on equality and mutual respect, not finger pointing. The voices of developing countries should be heard and their rights and interests protected.