Sanctions on Xinjiang cotton use opposed
2021/3/25 16:35
A man wearing a protective mask sprays disinfectant as a preventive measure against the coronavirus disease COVID at Sagar Island in the eastern state of West Bengal, India on Jan , .  A new virus variant makes it more complex for India to fight COVID as the country witnesses an alarming surge in new cases again despite growing numbers of vaccinations. On Tuesday India recorded , new coronavirus cases in a day, the biggest singleday spike since November , taking the nationwide COVID tally to over . million, the Union ministry of health and family welfare said. Indias health ministry said that a novel variant of the coronavirus had been detected in the country in addition to many other variants of concern also found abroad. Though variants of concern and a new double mutant variant have been found in India, these have not been detected in numbers sufficient to either establish a direct relationship or explain the rapid increase in cases in some states, the health ministry stated earlier in a statement. However, no direct link has been established between the ongoing surge in Maharashtra and the detection of the double mutant variant, the center said. The rise in cases is the result of a large susceptible population being exposed to the virus for the first time, the government said. These variants detected in the community have been prevalent since the last six to eight months, the ministry said. The occurrence of mutations is a natural process. The RNA strand of the virus will replicate and will make mistakes resulting in mutations. We should not worry about mutations, Dr V K Paul, chairperson of Indias COVID task force, said. However, Dr Paul said, the most important thing to remember is that viruses will not mutate if they are not allowed to replicate. Therefore, we have to only suppress the chain of transmission to stop mutations of the virus. Testing, quarantine and containment will limit the spread of the virus. For the fifth consecutive day in India, more than forty thousand cases were reported, the third highest in the world after the United States and Brazil in terms of daily cases, according to data revealed by the World Health Organization. Indias caseload began to come down at the start of  with daily infections falling to less than , from a peak of over , in September of last year. Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan held the lax behavior shown by people in following safety protocols as the reason behind the recent surge and urged them not to let their guard down against the infection, or else the situation may turn dangerous. With vaccines available now, people feel they should not wear masks, Dr Vardhan added. Five states  Maharashtra, Punjab, Karnataka, Gujarat and Chhattisgarh  continue to report the highest number of daily coronavirus cases, according to the ministry. Former head of the department of the Calcutta School of Tropical Medicine and infectious disease specialist Dr Amitabha Nandy says the rise is not surprising. A false notion of optimism swept the country when the caseload was decreasing at the start of this year, he added. People wearing protective masks wait in line to board a bus amidst the spread of the coronavirus disease COVID in Mumbai, India on October, , .  The situation is far from normal, in fact its alarming at the moment. The vaccination drive has to be sped up, said SudhanshuBankata, a doctor at a private hospital in the national capital. COVID patients have been mounting for the past two weeks at the hospital where he works, he added. I think the sharp rise in newly confirmed cases in India tends to be closely related to resuming work and production before the pandemic has been effectively brought under control or conditions have been significantly improved in the country, said Li Jiasheng, a researcher from the Center for AsiaEurope Studies at Xian Jiaotong University. Out of the pressure of economic recovery and growth, people in India have been eager to return to normal work operations, and this has resulted in in a surge in the flow of people in various regions, bringing in a new wave of COVID infections. Li believes that there were no particular measures to cope with the situation, as in the current stage, there exists a conflict between the imperative of economic recovery and pandemic control in India. Unless the effective medical protection measures can be adopted and mass vaccination can be implemented as soon as possible, it will be hard to keep things in check, he mentioned. Dr Bankata also believes tracing of variant mutants of the virus that causes COVID could also be another reason behind the recent surge in cases. Poor adherence to safety protocols is driving the new surge, said Mahesh Sharma, a member of Parliament in the BharatiyaJanata Party who represents the National Capital Region area and is also a doctor. In the wake of rapid surge, several state governments have imposed stringent travel restrictions, while some other states have announced night curfews to slow down the rising number of cases. Public celebrations and gatherings for upcoming festivals, including Holi, one of the biggest festivals of India, have been prohibited in Delhi and Mumbai amid a renewed surge in cases. The Union ministry of home affairs on Tuesday issued a set of guidelines for the effective control of COVID. The guidelines, which will be effective from  April, has asked states and Union Territories to enforce the testtracktreat protocol and laid down containment measures. The suspension of international flights has been extended till April . A senior doctor at All India Institute of Medical Science who wished to remain anonymous said all health officials are under pressure from the central government to aggressively ramp up testing and vaccination, especially in states where cases are mounting up. The total number of doses administered across the country crossed  million on Tuesday night, said the health ministry. Eight states  UP, Maharashtra, West Bengal, Rajasthan, Gujarat, Bihar, Kerala and Karnataka  accounted for  percent of the doses administered, according to the data available with the ministry. In over two months since the start of the vaccination drive on Jan , India has administered only around . percent of its target of  million doses to cover  million people by the end of July. The main reason for the pace would appear to be vaccine hesitancy, something the government is trying to address, a senior official of the health ministry said on condition of anonymity. A man walks past a mural depicting the Mona Lisa wearing a face mask amidst the spread of the coronavirus disease COVID, in Mumbai, India on March , .  The challenges would be both in the logistics of the supply chain and in the health workforce needed to administer the vaccine and monitor the adverse effects. The former may be easier to solve. Organizing the administration of the vaccine to the huge . billion population will call for a large health workforce, says Professor K Srinath Reddy, president of the Public Health Foundation of India. Starting from April , those who are above  years of age will be eligible for the COVID vaccination, announced Union Minister PrakashJavadekar on Tuesday. To date, only people above  years of age and those in the age group of  who have comorbidities were eligible for vaccination. Mehernath Kalchuri, an advocate from Maharasthra Bar Council and Trustee of Avatar Meher Baba Perpetual Public Charitable Trust, said that the government of India has been proactive to frequently instruct its population about the benefits of the vaccine at a rapid rate. There are about  to  million shots being administered on a daily basis, he said. Kalchuri, , had many members in his family being vaccinated at least with the first dose including his yearold mother. I got vaccinated in early March and I am about to get my second shot of the vaccine in less than a week from now. However, he noted that there is a misconception that once vaccinated then you are immune from the virus straightway. With the vaccination drive in progress, he can see that the public approach towards COVID becoming more laid back with increased public activity, such as going out, shopping and travel. The general activities of the population began slowly resuming back to preCOVID levels. This I believe was where things went wrong because we are now back to having high number of cases with this invisible enemy, he said. The difficulty is it will take time for a more than  billion population to get fully vaccinated with both the doses, he added. With the release of vaccines which only require a single dose, there appears to be a good prospect for this process to be expedited. Last week Prime Minister Narendra Modi during a virtual interaction with chief ministers of all Indian states, stressed on the urgent need of stopping the emerging second peak of coronavirus cases in the country. The sudden spike in COVID cases in some states was a cause of concern, the PM pointed out at the interaction. At the Anand Vihar and Kashmiri Gate interstate bus terminus in the national capital, several people were found jostling to get into buses. Pointing to a long queue at the Anand Vihar terminus one police officer said, How can we control such crowds and penalize them? Most of them cant afford to pay a fine if we penalize them. Many in the queue were found not wearing a mask and violating social distancing norms, the police officer added. Aparajit Chakraborty is a freelancer for China Daily.