Mental anguish payouts raised for wrongful imprisonment
2021/3/25 7:22
Editors Note Chinas State Council Information Office on Wednesday issued the Report on Human Rights Violations in the United States in . Full text below Foreword I cant breathe! George Floyd The scenes the U.S. Capitol building violence we have seen are the result of lies and more lies, of division and contempt for democracy, of hatred and rabblerousingeven from the very highest levels. German President FrankWalter Steinmeier American people wait in line to ask for food aid on May , . GUO KEXINHUA In , the COVID pandemic wreaked havoc around the world, posing a major threat to human security. The virus respects no borders, nor does the epidemic distinguish between races. To defeat the epidemic requires mutual help, solidarity and cooperation among all countries. However, the United States, which has always considered itself an exception and superior, saw its own epidemic situation go out of control, accompanied by political disorder, interethnic conflicts, and social division. It further added to the human rights violations in the country, the socalled city upon a hill and beacon of democracy. ? The epidemic went out of control and turned into a human tragedy due to the governments reckless response. By the end of February , the United States, home to less than  percent of the worlds population, accounted for more than a quarter of the worlds confirmed COVID cases and nearly onefifth of the global deaths from the disease. More than , Americans lost their lives due to the virus. ? Disorder in American democratic institutions led to political chaos, further tearing the fabric of society apart. Moneytainted politics distorted and suppressed public opinion, turning elections into a oneman show of the wealthy class and peoples confidence in the American democratic system dropped to the lowest level in  years. Amid increasing political polarization, hate politics evolved into a national plague, and the Capitol was stormed in postelection riots. ? Ethnic minority groups suffered systematic racial discrimination and were in a difficult situation. People of color made up about onethird of all minors under the age of  in the United States but twothirds of all of the countrys imprisoned minors. African Americans are three times as likely as whites to be infected with the coronavirus, twice as likely to die from COVID, and three times as likely to be killed by the police. One in four young Asian Americans has been the target of racial bullying. ? Gun trade and shooting incidents hit a record high, and peoples confidence in social order waned. Americans bought  million guns in  against the background of an outofcontrol epidemic, accompanied by racial justice protests and electionrelated conflicts, a surge of  percent compared with . Firsttime gun buyers exceeded  million. More than , people were killed in shooting incidents across the United States in the year, an average of more than  a day, and there were  mass shootings nationwide, an average of more than . a day. ? George Floyd, an African American, died after being brutally kneeled on his neck by a white police officer, sparking a national outcry. Widespread protests for racial justice erupted in  states. The U.S. government suppressed demonstrators by force, and more than , people were arrested. A large number of journalists were attacked and arrested for no reason. ? The gap between the rich and the poor widened, with the people at the bottom of society living in misery. The epidemic led to mass unemployment. Tens of millions of people lost health insurance coverage. One in six Americans and one in four American children were at risk of hunger. Vulnerable groups became the biggest victims of the governments reckless response to the epidemic. The U.S. government, instead of introspecting on its own terrible human rights record, kept making irresponsible remarks on the human rights situation in other countries, exposing its double standards and hypocrisy on human rights. Standing at a new crossroads, mankind is faced with new, grave challenges. It is hoped that the U.S. side will show humility and compassion for the suffering of its own people, drop hypocrisy, bullying, Big Stick and double standards, and work with the international community to build a community with a shared future for humanity. I. Incompetent Pandemic Containment Leads to Tragic Outcome The United States claimed to be most abundant in medical resources and healthcare capacity, yet its response to the COVID pandemic was chaotic, causing it to lead the world in the numbers of confirmed COVID cases and related deaths. Incompetent pandemic response led to dire consequences. A tally by Johns Hopkins University showed that as of the end of February , the United States has registered more than  million confirmed COVID cases, with related deaths exceeding ,. With a population of less than  percent of the worlds total, the United States accounted for more than  percent of all the confirmed cases and nearly  percent of the deaths. On Dec. , , CNN reported that the state of California alone had reported . million COVID cases and , deaths, which translates to roughly , known cases and  deaths for every , residents. Even these numbers dont give the whole picture of the state, because many cases, including mild or asymptomatic infections, had not been diagnosed. Had the American authorities taken sciencebased measures to contain the pandemic, this could have been avoided. But since they had not, the pandemic, as epidemiologist and former head of the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention CDC William Foege had put it, is a slaughter to the United States. National leaders ignored warnings from experts and downplayed the seriousness of the pandemic. According to the timeline of COVID pandemic in the United States released by media outlets including The New York Times and The Washington Post, the Trump administration had repeatedly ignored alarms regarding the risks of the pandemic. In early January , a National Security Council office had already received intelligence reports predicting the spread of the virus to the United States. In a Jan. ,  memo, then White House trade adviser Peter Navarro projected that a coronavirus pandemic might lead to as many as half a million deaths and trillions of dollars in economic losses. A number of health officials, including then Health and Human Services Secretary Alex Azar, and medical experts also warned of the possibility of a pandemic in the United States. None of the aforementioned warnings brought the imminent pandemic to the Trump administrations attention. Instead, the administration focused on controlling the message, and released misleading signals to the public by claiming the risk of the virus to most Americans was very low, suggesting that the coronavirus is no worse than the common flu, and stating the virus will miraculously go away when the weather gets warmer. Thus, the country lost crucial weeks for pandemic prevention and control. An article published on the website of The New York Times on April ,  commented that, then American leaders preference for following his gut rather than the data cost time, and perhaps lives. Government inaction led to uncontrolled pandemic spread. Theres no need for that many to have died. We chose, as a country, to take our foot off the gas pedal. We chose to, and thats the tragedy. So commented David HayesBautista, a professor of medicine at the University of California, Los Angeles, after the pandemic death toll hit , in the United States. Disease modelers with the Columbia University also estimated that, if the United States had begun locking down cities and limiting social contact on March , , two weeks earlier than most people started staying home, about  percent of the nations pandemicrelated deaths would have been avoided. An editorial from the website of medical journal The Lancet, published on May , , commented that the U.S. government was obsessed with magic bulletsvaccines, new medicines, or a hope that the virus will simply disappear. At the same time, it noted that only a steadfast reliance on basic public health principles, like testing, tracing, and isolation, would see the emergency brought to an end. Even when the pandemic is spreading in a vast area in the United States, the administration was hasty to restart the economy due to political concerns. According to news website Vox on Aug. , , in April and May last year, several states rushed to reopen and caused the virus to shift to the South, West and eventually the rest of the United States. In addition, despite that experts had recommended people wear masks in public, the then American leader and some state officials had been extremely reluctant to issue any decree to make wearing masks mandatory. Chaotic pandemic control and prevention measures caused confusion among the public. An article published by CNN on May ,  called the U.S. response to the pandemic consistently inconsistent, and noted that there were no national guidelines and no organized efforts to reopen the country beyond what measures states had taken. The article also said that in terms of pandemic control and prevention, public health officials say one thing while governors say another and the national leader says something else entirely. In addition, after the experts called for federal leadership, the then American leader left it to cities and states to solve national problems with testing and hospital supplies by themselves. When the federal government released a phased plan for reopening, the leader called on states to reopen faster. After the CDC recommended that people wear masks in public, the leader refused to do so for months. Even more ridiculously, the leader at one point advocated injecting bleach as a treatment. National leaders shirked their responsibility out of arrogance. Despite one ludicrous idea after another, the then American leader refused to admit any fault. Instead, the leader invented all sorts of excuses to gloss over his mistakes while shirking from responsibilities. For one, the then leader insisted that the U.S. leads the world in COVID cases because it tested more than any other country in the world. When asked about testing problems and rising deaths, the leader claimed he doesnt take responsibility at all. However, White House adviser and National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases director Anthony Fauci admitted that the numbers didnt lie and the United States had the worst coronavirus outbreak in the world. Senior citizens fell victims to the governments incompetent response to COVID. Senior citizens are a group more susceptible to the pandemic, yet they have been further marginalized in the U.S. pandemic prevention and control chaos, with their lives becoming valueless and their dignity trampled upon. On March  and April , , Dan Patrick, the lieutenant governor of Texas, told Fox News that he would rather die than see public health measures damage the U.S. economy and there are more important things than living. Furthermore, an Aug. ,  report published on The San Diego UnionTribune website found that residents in longterm care facilities account for less than  percent of the U.S. population but more than  percent of COVID deaths. A May ,  article from The Washington Post website called the U.S. pandemic control efforts statesanctioned killing, where the old, factory workers, and black and Hispanic Americans were deliberately sacrificed. The poor faced greater threat of infection. Researchers found that the Gini Index, an economic barometer that ranks income inequality from  total equality to  total inequality, was a strong predictor of COVID deaths. New York State, which had one of the highest Gini Index numbers also had the highest number of fatalities in the nation by a margin. The Guardian website reported on March , , that in the wake of the epidemic, its the wealthy and powerful first get coronavirus tests, while lowpaid workers, most of whom have no paid sick leave and cant do their work from home, put themselves at greater risk of contracting the virus in order to earn a living. Public health officials said, in Los Angeles County, residents of lowincome communities are three times more likely to die of COVID than those in wealthier neighborhoods, according to a report published on the Los Angeles Times website on May , . A Gallup survey revealed that one in seven American adults said that if they or their family members developed symptoms related to COVID, they would probably give up medical treatment because they were worried that they could not afford the costs. The United Nations Special Rapporteur on extreme poverty and human rights, Philip Alston, also pointed out that the poor in the United States were being hit hardest by the COVID pandemic. Lowincome and poor people face far higher risks from the coronavirus due to chronic neglect and discrimination, and a muddled, corporatedriven federal response has failed them, he observed. The handicapped and the homeless were in dire straits. A study released in November  by the nonprofit FAIR Health found that people with intellectual and developmental disabilities are three times more likely to die of COVID, compared to the general population. The website of the Los Angeles Times reported on May ,  that with the coronavirusinduced shock to the economy crippling businesses of all sizes and leaving millions of Americans out of work, homelessness in the United States could grow as much as  percent in a year. Many of the homeless Americans are elderly or disabled people. Given their originally poor physical health and bad living and hygienic conditions, they are susceptible to the virus. During the pandemic, the homeless were evicted and pushed into makeshift shelters. The website of Reuters reported on April ,  that the crowded shelters across the United States made it impossible for the homeless who lived there to maintain social distance, which made it easier for the virus to spread. The New York Times website reported on April ,  that in the New York City, a crisis has taken hold in homeless shelters, as more than , men and women are sleeping in group or congregate shelters for single adults, with beds close enough for people sleeping in them to hold hands. The Boston Globe website reported on May ,  that, about onethird of the homeless people who were tested have tested positive for the novel coronavirus. Outbreak in jails threatened lives of inmates. ABC News reported on Dec. ,  that at least , prisoners have been infected, of whom more than , have died, and nearly every prison system in the country has seen infection rates significantly higher than the communities around them. One of every five prisoners in facilities run by the federal Bureau of Prisons has had coronavirus, according to data collected by The Associated Press and The Marshall Project, a nonprofit news organization covering the criminal justice system. They also found that  state prison systems have had even higher infection rates. Half of the prisoners in Kansas have been infected with COVIDeight times the rate of cases among the states overall population. In Arkansas, four of every seven have had the virus. Outofcontrol pandemic brought Americans psychological pressure. The Trump administrations reaction to the COVID pandemic has negatively affected Americans more than the virus itself, which has left people stressed and isolated. In a study published by the CDC on Aug. , , due to stayathome orders, . percent of adults reported at least one adverse mental or behavioral health condition, . percent reported either anxiety or depression and those numbers are just the tip of the iceberg. The same CDC study showed that  percent of people surveyed by the CDC during the same time said that they started or increased their substance abuse and  percent seriously considered suicide. A separate study released in June  showed calls to suicide hotlines went up  percent nationwide during the COVID pandemic with some crisis lines experiencing a percent increase. II. American Democracy Disorder Triggers Political Chaos Touting itself as the beacon of democracy, the United States has wantonly leveled criticism against and oppressed many other countries under the guise of upholding democracy, freedom and human rights. However, the U.S. society has been plagued by deeprooted money politics, unchecked public opinion manipulation and rampant lies, and American democracy has further aggravated social division instead of bridging the increasingly polarized political differences. As a result, the American people enjoy their civil and political rights in name only. Influence of money in electoral politics essentially makes it a moneyled election. Money is the driving force of American politics. Americas money politics has distorted public opinion, turning elections into a oneman show for the rich. The amount spent on the  U.S. presidential and congressional campaigns hit nearly  billion U.S. dollars, more than double what was spent in the  election. The presidential campaign saw a record high of . billion U.S. dollars in total spending, while congressional races finished with over  billion U.S. dollars. According to a Nov. ,  report on the website of CNBC, the top  donors in the  U.S. election cycle contributed over  million U.S. dollars. In addition to publicly registered election donations, a large amount of secret funds and dark money flooded the  U.S. elections. According to an analysis by the Brennan Center for Justice at New York University, dark money groups poured more than  million U.S. dollars into  elections through ad spending and recordbreaking contributions to political committees such as super political action committees. Public trust in U.S. elections was in crisis. According to Gallups figures released on Oct. , , only  percent of Americans say they are very confident about the accuracy of the presidential election, the lowest Gallup has recorded in its trend dating back to . According to a commentary carried by the Wall Street Journal on Nov. , , the  U.S. election can be seen as the culmination of a twodecade period of decline in faith in the basic building blocks of democracy. Political polarization grew. Disagreement between Democrats and Republicans has gradually changed from policy differences to identity battles with increasingly obvious political tribalism. The two parties have ended in deadlocks on many major public issues, thus leading to inefficient and incompetent state governance. Power plays between rival politicians in dogfights have become the hallmark of American politics, which saw a variety of shows featuring ugly attacks and vulgar smears. Voters supporting different parties are at loggerheads under the instigation of extreme politicians. Dominated by growing political fanaticism, the two camps are increasingly harder to talk to each other. Hate politics raged through the country and became the root cause of constant social unrest and division. According to a Nov. ,  report by Pew Research Center, America is exceptional in the nature of its political divide. There has been an increasingly stark disagreement between Democrats and Republicans on economy, racial justice, climate change, law enforcement, international engagement and a long list of other issues. The  presidential election exacerbated these deepseated divides. A month before the election, roughly  percent of the registered voters in both camps said their differences with the other side were about more than just politics and policies, but also about core American values, and about  percent in both camps worried that a victory by the other would lead to lasting harm to the United States. Power checks and balances have mutated into veto politics. The bipartisan divides intensified the veto practices inherent in the American system. The separation, check and balance of power have turned into vetoing each other. The two parties engaged in ferocious battles, paralyzing the Congress and deadlocking the decisionmaking. While the outbreak of COVID went out of control, the two parties not only brawled with each other on multiple issues, but also took the bill for the second round of COVID relief measures as their campaigning tool for election. The two parties filibustered and stalled each other for votes, leaving millions of grassroots people in livelihood predicament. The veto politics has caused acute confrontations between the Congress and the administrative system, as well as between the federal and state authorities. During the COVID pandemic, frequent contradictions have taken place between the Republican president and the Democratsdominated House of Representatives, and between the federal government and Democratic blue states. The federal government competed with the states in the scramble for antivirus supplies, and was often at odds with the blue states in epidemic response policies, thus causing people to be at a loss. Massachusetts once arranged to buy  million N masks for urgent needs, but federal authorities seized them at the Port of New York. The postelection riots highlighted the American democracy crisis. The election did not resolve the political differences in the United States, but heated up social confrontation. A Nov. ,  report on the website of the Guardian noted that whoever won the  election, America would remain a country bitterly divided and the politics of anger and hatred would be the legacy. Claiming that the election was tainted by fraud, the defeated Republican camp refused to accept the presidential election results and filed lawsuits in Michigan, Wisconsin, Pennsylvania and Georgia, calling for a recount of ballots to overturn the election by pressuring and intimidating local election officials. Donald Trump repeatedly insisted that he would never accept the election defeat, calling on his supporters to protest against the congressional certification of the election result in Washington, D.C. The election dispute eventually turned into riots. On Jan. , , tens of thousands of protesters who refused to accept the election defeat staged a Save America rally in Washington, D.C. A large number of protesters breached security and stormed into the Capitol building, where they tussled with police officers. Members of the U.S. Congress were hurriedly evacuated wearing their gas masks, as the police fired tear gas and shot to disperse the protesters. Protesters acted recklessly after occupying the venue. The riots resulted in multiple injuries and an interruption of the congressional certification of the electoral victory. Washington, D.C. imposed curfew and entered a state of emergency. On Jan. , , U.S. Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund said that thousands of individuals involved in violent riotous actions attacked officers with metal pipes, chemical irritants and other weapons, injuring more than  police officers. The police arrested more than  people in total. On Jan. , , UN High Commissioner for Human Rights Michelle Bachelet said in a statement that the attack on the U.S. Capitol demonstrated clearly the destructive impact of sustained, deliberate distortion of facts, and incitement to violence and hatred by political leaders. The political chaos in Washington shocked the world. American media called it the first time in modern American history that the power transfer has turned into a real combat in the Washington corridor of power. They blamed that violence, chaos and vandalism had shaken the American democracy to the core, dealing a heavy blow to Americas image as a democratic beacon. The French daily Le Figaro commented that the violent incident stoked up the resentment and distrust among different camps in American society, plunging America into an unknown situation. The Foreign Policy said in a commentary that the United States has become what its leaders used to condemn being unable to avoid violence and bloody destruction during transfer of power. Lebanese diplomat Mohamad Safa commented via social media, If the United States saw what the United States is doing in the United States, the United States would invade the United States to liberate the United States from the tyranny of the United States. Protestors are arrested in Minneapolis, Minnesota, the United States, on May . African American George Floyd died of suffocation after being violently held down by the police in May, triggering a nationwide protest. XINHUA III. Ethnic minorities devastated by racial discrimination In the United States, racism exists in a comprehensive, systematic and continuous manner. Former U.S. President Barack Obama said helplessly that for millions of Americans, being treated differently on account of race is tragically, painfully, maddeningly normal. In June , the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights Michelle Bachelet made two consecutive media statements, emphasizing that the protests triggered by the death of George Floyd, an African American, highlighted not only the issue of police brutality against people of color, but also inequality and racial discrimination in health, education, and employment in the United States. The grievances need to be heard and addressed if the country is to move on from its tragic history of racism and violence. On June , , the rd session of the UN Human Rights Council held an urgent debate on racism. This was the first time in the history of the Human Rights Council that an urgent meeting on the human rights issues of the United States was held. On Nov. , , the United States was severely criticized by the international community for racial discrimination when it was in the third cycle of Universal Periodic Review by the United Nations Human Rights Council. The Committee on the Elimination of Racial Discrimination of the United Nations and other institutions pointed out that racism in the United States is horrific. The white nationalists, neoNazis, and the Ku Klux Klan overtly use racist slogans, chants and salutes to promote white supremacy and incite racial discrimination and hatred. Political figures increasingly use divisive language in attempts to marginalize racial, ethnic and religious minorities, which amounts to inciting and fueling violence, intolerance and bigotry. Tendayi Achiume, the United Nations Special Rapporteur on contemporary forms of racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance, believes that for black people in the United States, the domestic legal system has utterly failed to acknowledge and confront the racial injustice and discrimination that are so deeply entrenched in law enforcement. Rights of the American Indians were violated. The United States has carried out systematic ethnic cleansing and massacres of Indians in history, and committed countless crimes against humanity and genocides. American Indians still live a life like a secondclass citizen and their rights have been trampled over. Many indigenous peoples, such as the American Indians, who live in lowincome communities in the United States, suffer from higher rates of cancer and heart diseases from toxic radioactive environments. Many indigenous people live near hazardous waste disposal sites and have an abnormally high rate of birth defects. On Aug. , , the report of the United Nations Special Rapporteur on the implications for human rights of the environmentally sound management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, submitted pursuant to Human Rights Council resolution , decried the situation of indigenous peoples in the United States. They are exposed to toxic pollutants, including nuclear waste, released or produced by extractive industries, agriculture and manufacturing. The soil and lead dust pollution from mining waste poses a more significant health threat for indigenous peoples in the United States than other groups. The report of the United Nations Special Rapporteur on freedom of religion or belief in accordance with General Assembly resolution  found out that the United States had opened up the lands of indigenous communities, including the Standing Rock Sioux Tribe, to investment without the communities consent or in contravention of their customary and collective land ownership. The report of the United Nations Special Rapporteur on adequate housing as a component of the right to an adequate standard of living, released in accordance with Human Rights Council resolution , said that some of the most devastating effects of COVID had been felt by racial and ethnic minorities and indigenous peoples. The hospitalization rate of Native Americans was five times that of nonHispanic white Americans. The death rate of Native Americans also far exceeded that of white Americans. Bullying against Asian Americans escalated. Since the pandemic began, the incidents of Asian Americans being humiliated and even assaulted in public have been found everywhere, and some American politicians have misled the public on purpose. Its very lonely to be Asians in the United States during the raging pandemic, said a report published on the website of the New York Times on April , . A survey of young Asian Americans showed that in the past year, a quarter of young Asian Americans became targets of racial bullying fueled by the racist remarks of the then American leader, nearly half of the respondents expressed pessimism about their situation, and a quarter of the respondents expressed fear about the situation of themselves and their families, according to a report published on the website of the National Broadcasting Corporation on Sept. , . Tendayi Achiume, the United Nations Special Rapporteur on contemporary forms of racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance, said on March  and April , , that politicians of relevant countries took the initiative to make open or suggestive xenophobic remarks, adopting alternative names with ulterior motives for the novel coronavirus. Their remarks that associated a specific disease with a specific country or ethnicity were irresponsible and disturbing, according to the Special Rapporteur. U.S. government officials openly incited, induced, and condoned racial discrimination, which was tantamount to humiliating modern human rights concepts. The high level of hate crimes highlighted the deterioration of race relations. An FBI report released in  showed that . percent of the , singlebias hate crime offenses reported by law enforcement agencies in  were motivated by raceethnicityancestry. Of these offenses, . percent were motivated by antiblack or African American bias . percent stemmed from antiwhite bias . percent were classified as antiHispanic or Latino bias . percent resulted from antiAsian bias. Among the , victims of racial hate crimes, as many as , were of African descent. Some Americans blamed the outbreak of the pandemic on Asian Americans, and there had been an increase in the number of hate crimes and incidents of harassment and discrimination against Asian Americans, according to a report published on the website of USA Today on May . Statistics from the civil rights organization Stop AAPI Hate showed there were over , antiAsian hate crimes in the U.S. during the first seven months of . Unchecked police violence led to frequent deaths of African Americans. On March , , Breonna Taylor, a yearold AfricanAmerican woman, was shot eight times and killed by police in her own home. On May , , George Floyd, a yearold African American was killed after a white policeman kneeled on his neck in the street. On Aug. , , Jacob Blake, a yearold African American, was severely injured after police officers shot him seven times in the back when Blake was getting into a car. At the time, Blakes three kids were in the car, witnessing the horrible act. American police shot and killed a total of , people in 