Partying sees Miami act to cut virus risk
2021/3/24 0:00
Authorities in Miami Beach have extended its state of emergency that could run through the end of the college spring break as police seek to control unruly crowds descending on the party strip in the Florida city. Police have arrested more than , people and seized about  guns. Commissioners on Sunday authorized the city manager Raul Aguila to keep the emergency in place. A city spokeswoman told AFP on Monday that the extension will come in one week increments. How many more things are we going to allow to occur before we step in? Miami Beach Police Chief Richard Clements told an emergency meeting of the Miami Beach City Commission on Sunday to vote to enact several measuresincluding extending the curfew until at least April to curb the crowds. I think this was the right decision, he said. When hundreds of people are running through the streets panicked, you realize thats not something that a police force can control, he said at a commission meeting on Sunday. Clements said that on March , an unusually large crowd blocked Ocean Drive, the main beachfront strip, and basically had an impromptu street party.Fights were breaking out, setting off dangerous stampedes to safety, he said. He said one restaurant was turned upside down in a melee, its chairs were used as weapons, and broken glass covered the floor. Gunshots were fired, and a young woman was hospitalized with a cut leg, police said. The crowd was defiant but mostly nonviolent on Saturday night, refusing to submit to a curfew that had been enacted only four hours earlier, when officers in bulletproof vests released pepper spray balls to break up a party. On Saturday, interim city manager Raul Aguila imposed the nighttime curfew on the most touristy streets of South Beach, the center of the party, and ordered the closure of the three bridges that connect the island with Miami from  pm to  am. A crowd showed up again on Sunday night, defying the curfew once more. Lawlessness rife Aguila said that many people from other US states were coming in to engage in lawlessness and an anythinggoes party attitude. He said most werent patronizing the businesses that need tourism dollars and instead were merely congregating by the thousands in the street. The huge crowds of college students also have sparked fears that there could be a new coronavirus outbreak, as there has been little social distancing. Hundreds of rowdy revelers, many not wearing masks, as is required by a Miami Beach ordinance, sat indoors in bars and restaurants and met in large groups on Ocean Drive. The governor has said, you know, Everythings open, come on down. But the problem is that were still in the midst of a pandemic. Its not in our rearview mirror yet by any means, and its certainly not in my county and my city, Mayor Dan Gelber said. So thats a challenge, and with this many people coming, we have, its sort of a triple threat of too many crowds, too many people acting out, and a pandemic. And those three together just create a very challenging moment. Florida has recorded more than  million coronavirus infections and more than , deaths since the start of the pandemic. The state has reported the highest number of cases of the B... variant. At least  percent of Floridians have been fully vaccinated, according to figures from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. belindarobinsonchinadailyusa.com