Anchorage meeting offers possibility of cooperation reboot, albeit faint China Daily editorial
2021/3/23 10:45
People enjoy themselves along Ocean Drive on March ,  in Miami Beach, Florida. College students have arrived in the South Florida area for the annual spring break ritual. City officials are concerned with large spring break crowds as the coronavirus pandemic continues. Miami Beach police have reported hundreds of arrests and officers steppedup deployment to control the spring break crowds.  Miami Beach will extend a state of emergency in its entertainment district that could run through the end of the college spring break vacation period as police seek to control unruly crowds, which has resulted in more than , arrests and the seizure of about  guns. The extension to be announced Tuesday in the Florida city will authorize a curfew Thursday night through early Monday that can be extended every week through April , the city said in a release Sunday. How many more things are we going to allow to occur before we step in? Miami Beach Police Chief Richard Clements told an emergency meeting of the Miami Beach City Commission on Sunday to vote to enact several measures, including extending curfew until at least April , to curb the crowds. I think this was the right decision, he said. When hundreds of people are running through the streets panicked, you realize thats not something that a police force can control, he said during the commission meeting Sunday. Clements said that on March , an unusually large crowd blocked Ocean Drive, the main beachfront strip, and basically had an impromptu street party. Fights were breaking out, setting off dangerous stampedes to safety, he said. He said one restaurant was turned upside down in a melee, its chairs were used as weapons, and broken glass covered the floor. Gunshots were fired, and a young woman was hospitalized with a cut leg, police said. The crowd was defiant but mostly nonviolent on Saturday night, refusing to submit to a curfew that had been enacted only four hours earlier, when officers in bulletproof vests released pepper spray balls to break up a party. On Saturday, interim city manager Raul Aguila imposed the nighttime curfew on the most touristy streets of South Beach, the center of the party, and ordered the closure of the three bridges that connect the island with Miami from  pm to  am. A crowd showed up again Sunday night, defying the curfew once more. Aguila said that many people from other states were coming in to engage in lawlessness and an anythinggoes party attitude. He said most werent patronizing the businesses that need tourism dollars and instead were merely congregating by the thousands in the street. The huge crowds of college students also have sparked fears that there could be a new coronavirus outbreak, as there has been little social distancing. Hundreds of rowdy revelers, many not wearing masks, as is required by a Miami Beach ordinance, sat indoors in bars and restaurants and met in large groups on Ocean Drive. The governor has said, you know, Everythings open, come on down. But the problem is that were still in the midst of a pandemic. Its not in our rearview mirror yet by any means, and its certainly not in my county and my city, Mayor Dan Gelber said. So thats a challenge, and with this many people coming, we have, its sort of a triple threat of too many crowds, too many people acting out, and a pandemic. And those three together just create a very challenging moment. Florida has recorded more than  million coronavirus infections and more than , COVID deaths since the start of the pandemic. The state has reported the highest number of cases of the B... coronavirus variant that started in the UK. At least  percent of Floridians have been fully vaccinated, according to figures from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention CDC. The amended state of emergency will limit traffic on three causeways leading to South Beach to keep all but residents, hotel guests and employees from driving onto the island. It also imposes a curfew in Miami Beachs entertainment district from  pm to  am and closes sidewalk dining from  pm through  am. All restaurants, bars and businesses are required to be closed by  pm. Only residents who live in the area will be allowed to walk down streets in the entertainment district. John Walter, a resident of South Beach, said on Sunday night that when the curfew began, police pushed crowds off Ocean Drive, and many ended up in his neighborhood. People were walking up and down the parked cars, he told the CBS affiliate in Miami. My neighbors kids were screaming. When the police showed up, people started running toward our building. My neighbor and I sat on the floor and put our feet on the staircase to try and block them from coming in.