Canada seeing more cases from COVID variants, says top doctor
2021/3/22 9:58
A woman wearing a face mask walks past a Shoppers Drug Mart store advertising coronavirus disease COVID vaccines, in Toronto, Ontario, Canada, March , .  OTTAWA  Canada is seeing more cases from COVID variants, Canadas Chief Public Health Officer Theresa Tam said in a statement on Sunday. As of March , a total of , variants of concern have been reported across Canada, including , B... variants,  B.. variants and  P. variants, said the Public Health Agency of Canada on Sunday. COVID variants of concern are taking a particularly strong hold in Western Canada, with Regina city seeing nearly all of its cases from the variants, prompting local health officials to urge caution and warn that lockdowns may return. In parts of Canada, variants of concern represent an increasingly high proportion of cases and are being associated with a greater number of outbreaks, Tam said. On Thursday, Canadas most populous province of Ontario, with a population of  million, announced that Ontario is in the third wave of the COVID pandemic because of increasing COVID variant cases. Canadas capital city of Ottawa moved to the red zone on Friday as the spread of COVID is getting out of control. Red brings with it some of the strictest restrictions detailed on the provinces pandemic scale, second only to grey lockdown. However, nationally, COVID activity has leveled off at a high level since midFebruary and average daily case counts are now on the rise. As of Sunday afternoon, Canada reported , new cases of COVID, bringing the cumulative total to ,, including , deaths, according to CTV. The countrys latest nationallevel data show a sevenday average of , new cases daily on March . Currently, there are , active cases across the country. While COVID continues to impact people of all ages in Canada, infection rates are the highest among those aged  years of age, said Tam. Circulation of COVID in younger, more mobile and sociallyconnected adults presents an ongoing risk for spread into highrisk populations and settings, Tam added in the statement. More than . million doses of vaccines have been administered to date across Canada as of March , according to Tam.