Safetyfirst approach kickstarts cautious return of fans
2021/3/22 9:34
 Allen Hershkowitz wont use the word safe because there is no certainty in life sciences. But the yearold Ph. D. with decades of environmental science experience says he would feel comfortable going to a socially distanced indoor sporting event with one of his children. Given the protocols, I would feel OK about it, he said. Arena by arena, venue by venue, fans are returning to watch live sports indoors amid encouraging signs during the pandemic. Plenty of safety rules are in place for the NCAA Tournament that opens in Indiana this week with limited attendance in the stands, just like the NBA and NHL. Experts say attending is relatively safe because of how big arenas with high ceilings work to move and mix airas long as capacity limits allow for physical distancing and masks are still worn properly. If were talking about reduced capacity, people wearing masks most of the time and making use of that large volume, I think the risks are probably very low, said Dr. Richard Corsi, dean of Portland States college of engineering and computer science. If youre sitting with your family and youre distanced from others and people are wearing masks except for when theyre eating a hot dog or whatever, and youve got this large volume and you make use of the volume, my guess is that the risk is pretty low. Doesnt mean its zero. The reduced risk of contracting the coronavirus has to do with how much space surrounds each person when venue attendance is capped at  percent, as it is for the tournament, and how often fresh air from outside is refreshed into a venue. The American Society of Heating, Refrigerating and AirConditioning Engineers sets standards for how many cubic feet per meter of air space is required for everything from homes to restaurants to office buildings. Limiting capacity gives everyone more air. If youre running at it half full, everyone gets twice as much ventilation, said ME Engineers managing partner Ed Bosco, who has consulted with major sports leagues and helped evaluate more than  arenas in the past year. If youre running it at  percent full, everyone gets  times the ventilation air. Then theres how often that air is changed out. While an airplane does over  air changes per hour because of its confined space and predictable ventilation patterns, a sports arena can do between five and seven air changes per hour. Harvards John Spengler has recommended to school districts four to five per hour for the return of students. To have a venue the size of Staples Center or Madison Square Garden or Barclays Center doing five full air exchanges per hour, thats quite extraordinary, said Hershkowitz, cochair of the International WELL Building Institute Advisory for Sports and Entertainment Venues, who also is an adviser for the NBA and Major League Baseballs New York Yankees. Some older buildings have had their systems retrofitted or fixed to ensure maximum air changes and good mixing of that air into the rafters away from people, though most constructed in the past plus years were already capable of highquality ventilation. At the time, those things werent done, per se, for pandemicbased scenarios, said Ryan Sickman, global director of sports at the Gensler architecture firm. But they were done for very similar things. It was cleaner, it was removing bacteria from the air, it was removing particulates from the air. It was providing for a vast number of people clean air, and thats an important part of the experience. Of course, it takes more energy to run those systems, but its considered worth it to bring fans and their dollars back. The NHL has  pages of arena protocols outlining air change and other requirements  of its  teams allow fans or plan to soon. In the NBA, its  of , though that number could quickly increase to . Subject to our protocols and what local government is mandating, we think we can be safe and protective, NHL commissioner Gary Bettman said. Coronavirus cases being down and vaccination rates up have made the conditions right for easing fans back in, said Shandy Dearth, director of undergraduate epidemiology education at IUPUIs school of public health in Indianapolis. She said if the US were in a surge right now, it would be hard to mitigate risk of infection. And while there has been no evidence thus far of community spread from fans attending sporting events, which NCAA chief medical officer Dr. Brian Hainline pointed out last week, experts naturally harbor concerns about bringing thousands of people together inside during a pandemic over three weeks in Indiana and Texas, the site of the womens NCAA Tournament. I worry probably in arenas or would worry more about the areas in arenas where people are congregating, so concourses and entrances and exits more than the seating area if people are well spaced out and its well ventilated, said William Bahnfleth, chair of the ASHRAE Epidemic Task Force and professor of architectural engineering at Penn State. Lucas Oil Stadium, which will host the mens Final Four, is a vast building with a ,person capacity that will have at most ,, and the NFLs Indianapolis Colts say it has hospitalgrade air filters. Theres a lot of air in the area, said Ana Rule, Ph. D., an assistant professor and director of exposure assessment laboratories at Johns Hopkins University. Because its a high volume, you have a larger volume of air in which the potential aerosols that are emitted by people are diluted into, so that helps. Even ,seat arenas have that volume, and other efforts can mitigate risk further. Ultraviolet technologies touted as a way to keep the coronavirus from replicating could soon become mainstream. Experts insist maskwearing is still essential at indoor sporting events. Corsi said masks are one layer of safety, along with distancing and ventilation to keeping fans safe, which will be a constant reminder at the NCAA Tournament. We know the mask use is a critical step to making this a successful event, Dearth said. Weve got a lot of lessons learned from the last year, so its not an experiment. I think we know enough now to know what we need to do. AP