Japan struggles to contain virus before Olympics
2021/3/21 7:44
A person holds a placard during a Stop Asian Hate rally, following the deadly shootings, in Atlanta, Georgia, US, on Mar , .  Hundreds of demonstrators gathered outside the Georgia State Capitol in Atlanta on Saturday in support of the Asian American community after a shooting at three local day spas this week left eight people dead, six of them Asian women. The killings followed a year of mounting antiAsian violence in the United States, which community leaders say is due to Asian Americans being blamed for the coronavirus. Crowds of people wearing masks, waving American flags and carrying posters that read We are not the virus and Stop Asian Hate stood in front of the goldendomed Georgia State Capitol building on Saturday. I want to make sure the world and the people know that I am here and I am visible, said rallygoer Sunghee Han from Georgia. The women who perished, ... I see my family in them, Timothy Phan from Port St. Lucie, Florida, who drove eight hours to attend, told CNN. I feel like far too often, were just erased. Georgia Senators Raphael Warnock and Jon Ossoff, both Democrats elected in January, led the demonstrators in a moment of silence for the victims, video on Twitter showed. Let us build a state and a nation where no one lives in fear because of who they are or where they or their family come from, Senator Ossoff said. Georgia authorities have yet to determine what drove the suspect, a yearold white man, who was charged with the killings at spas in and around Atlanta on Tuesday. Robert Aaron Long told investigators sex addiction led him to violence, but lawmakers and antiracism advocates have said antiAsian bias could have been at least part of the motivation. Im not interested in whether or not he had a bad day, said Warnock, blasting a comment by an Atlantaarea sheriffs department spokesman about Longs state of mind. No matter how you want to spin it, the facts remain the same, Georgia State Representative Bee Nguyen told the crowd. This was an attack on the Asian community. Some of the women killed were immigrants and mothers, described by family and friends as hardworking, loving and beloved. Hyun Jung Grant was among those killed at Gold Spa in Atlanta. Her son, Randy Park, set up a GoFundMe page to raise money for himself and his brother, who are alone now in the United States while the rest of their family is in South Korea. She was a single mother who dedicated her whole life to providing for my brother and I, Park wrote. The shootings prompted an outpouring of grief, from the local community in Georgia to the halls of US Congress. Since Tuesday, mourners have piled flower bouquets and signs, lit candles and said prayers outside the spas where the victims were killed. US lawmakers decried the spike in antiAsian violence in a congressional hearing on Thursday, where Democratic Representative Grace Meng testified that the community is bleeding. On Friday, President Joe Biden and Vice President Kamala Harris met with Asian American community leaders in Georgia to express condolences and implore Americans to stand together against hate.  Agencies via Xinhua