Tokyo Olympic torch relay to kick off
2021/3/21 7:05
Photo provided to China Daily A growing number of Hong Kong people are leaving. There is concern it could lead to a brain drain, but some experts are more optimistic. Wang Yuke reports from Hong Kong. Sheilla Xia, a mother of two young children, is bidding farewell to Hong Kong  a city she has called her second home for more than a decade. She relishes the years she has spent in this vibrant city, where she got her teaching career off the ground, set up a happy family of four and enjoyed an everexpanding social network. But with a heavy heart, Xia and her husband have resolved to return to their hometown in Shandong province, leaving all the fond memories behind them. The unrelenting pandemic, a listless economy and the upheavals here in recent years have forced me to make up my mind. My chief concern revolves around my children, their education, mindsets and future, says Xia. Hong Kong, undoubtedly, provides quality education. Thats not an issue with me. What Im worried about is whether my children will have bright prospects in their careers, balanced views on controversies, and if there are ample opportunities and a big stage for them to play on when they grow up. Xia says that young people on the Chinese mainland are becoming more creative and enlightened with greater exposure to novel gadgets, technologies and concepts from all around the world. They think big and do big. They are perching atop China, gazing at whats happening in the world. I want my children to have that vision and outlook. The prolonged pandemic in Hong Kong has already taken a toll on Xias family, with her two children, aged  and , having returned to Shandong last year with their father. An aerial photo taken on June ,  shows the scenery on both sides of Victoria Harbour in Hong Kong.  But Xia still must serve out her teaching contract in Hong Kong before she can reunite with her family in June next year. With no one to help her babysit at the height of the pandemic while she was at work, she had a tough time. I was totally worn out. It seemed that leaving the babies in the care of my parents in Shandong was the only option. The long separation is poignant for Xia, but she has to come to terms with it. Beryl Yip, a yearold Hong Kong resident and her fiance appear to be in a similar position. They are poised to emigrate to Canada. Leaving Hong Kong, a city they are truly enamored with, was a tough decision to make. But for the sake of their future childs education, Yip says, they have to take that step. Its sad to see Hong Kongs education becoming more and more politically tinted. Schools should shield teenagers and adolescents from political bias and sentiments because they are still forming their own world values and perspectives. I dont want my kid to be peer pressured in political rows. Therere also Hong Kong parents who have taken temporary refuge with their children in mainland cities that are considered safe as the coronavirus rears its head in the SAR. Monica Zhang, a mother in her late s, has been living in Xian, Shaanxi province, with her three children since August, four months after her kids kindergarten shifted to online teaching. She was perplexed by the need for a kindergarten child to take to virtual learning, which is almost like a teachers solo show. Inperson communication is crucial for children to develop a healthy personality in their tender years, says Zhang. I notice they have become more outgoing, talkative and sociable since we moved here Xian, maybe because they are able to play with others in a real environment. Hong Kongs population shrank by . percent last year, according to the latest annual population report by the Census and Statistics Department. The sharp decline was attributed to a drastic drop in the citys birth rate, a significant rise in mortality, and remarkably fewer people coming to Hong Kong while many moving out. The report says , Hong Kong residents left the city in  alone. In , it was reported that , residents applied for Certificates of No Criminal Conviction  a document issued by the Hong Kong Police Force to obtain various visas, including travel or resident visas, or for the adoption of children  compared with less than , annually between  and . In the first  months of last year, about , residents applied for the certificate. The growing number of people leaving is not simply about a declining population. Paul Yip, chair professor of population health at the University of Hong Kong, says that immigrants take their skillsets and assets, which are the most valuable things that Hong Kong cant afford to lose. Hong Kong has distinguished itself with its cultural diversity and inclusiveness, making it an enticing spot for investment, business expansion and innovation, Yip says. However, if the labor market continues to lose young talent due to a low birth rate and increased immigration, and without adequate skilled professionals coming in to fill in the void, Hong Kong will gradually lose its treasured edge  diversity. It will take a toll on the local economy because a diverse work environment provides a rich pool of expertise and mindset, which nurtures creativity and innovation, he says. A panoramic view of the financial area in Hong Kong.  Potential impact Some economic experts, however, are less pessimistic. Tang Heiwai, professor of economics at the University of Hong Kong, noted that previous immigration waves can be used as a reference to gauge the potential impact on society. Between  and , up to half a million Hong Kong people migrated, but half of them returned as the special administrative regions economy had been doing quite well since the handover. So the impact wasnt that great. Tang expects similar numbers of Hong Kong people to up sticks in the next three to five years, But I believe many of them will come back eventually because they may well realize that Hong Kongs economy is still doing better than that in other places. After all, the global economy is still in a recession, he says. Therefore, in the medium term, maybe within five years, the full effect on the citys economy will not be evident. Besides, therell be more diverse opportunities in Hong Kongs more progressive sectors, such as financial technology, big data and biotechnology, that will attract young talent and professionals from the Chinese mainland, Tang says. He believes the SAR and the GuangdongHong KongMacao Greater Bay Area will reap mutual tangible benefits through integrated development. The fruits of research by experts from Hong Kongs prestigious universities can be commercialized as products and services that can be mass manufactured in the Bay Area. The more production and consumption in the Bay Area, the more upstream research and development in Hong Kong, he says. Terence Chong Taileung, executive director of the Lau Chor Tak Institute of Global Economics and Finance at the Chinese University of Hong Kong, is confident that Hong Kong will remain a coveted, boisterous international financial hub for talent exchange even if theres herd immigration. Hong Kong is most valued for being a handy platform for people and money flow, with fewer constraints and barriers, Chong says, adding that the dynamic is constant and not as susceptible to external changes as we may think because the foundation is established and carved in stone. Shrugging off the potential impact of herd immigration on the citys talent pool, Chong reiterates that the nonstop dynamic of talent influx and exodus is fundamentally constant in the city, so it cant be more usual to see people exiting. Pedestrians wearing face masks walk on a street in Hong Kong, Dec , .  The strength will be maintained through complementary cooperation between Hong Kong and the Bay Area, he says. For one thing, Hong Kong boasts worldclass universities that are in the best position to help the Bay Area cultivate talent and professionals. For the other, theres a scant supply of finance talent in the Bay Area, while theres likely to be keener demand for fundraising, company listings and investment, given therere a lot of startups there. I believe Hong Kong, as a goto free trade port, will just fill the void, continuing to lure budding entrepreneurs and unicorn startups from the Bay Area to come here, Chong says. By the same token, Hong Kong will continue to appeal to companies from the Bay Area or overseas aiming to set up offices in the city, he says. He urged Hong Kong entrepreneurs to leave their comfort zone and seek opportunities in the Bay Area, where theres more room for growth. Hong Kongs skyhigh land prices are unfriendly to startups, he says. A sizable area is key to a companys success which is a matter of teamwork. But Hong Kongs expensive land can hardly provide that. The mainland market is more diverse and broader. But he admits therere often misgivings among Hong Kong entrepreneurs about matters like unfamiliarity with mainland culture, the language barrier and reduced access to Hong Kong websites that discourage them from going. Once these issues are cleared, more Hong Kong entrepreneurs will be keen to climb aboard the Bay Area bandwagon. The ultimate answer is to provide a micro Hong Kong culture within the Bay Area  a feelathome wow factor to Hong Kong people. Stuart GietelBasten, professor of social science and public policy at the Hong Kong University of Science and Technology, suggests that sourcing talent from outside Hong Kong helps mitigate the talent deficit. A more sustainable answer is to train people locally and incentivize local graduates to work in less popular areas where theyre desperately needed. Weve eight worldclass universities churning out outstanding graduates. But why is that many of them still find it hard to secure a job although the construction and elderly caregiving sectors are so short of workers? GietelBasten says. These jobs, although far from being respectable, are in demand. Therere exponentially growing areas where theres an acute shortage of young labor, he says. What Hong Kong needs to do is to professionalize these underappreciated trades and pay people properly to lift the image and value of these professions. The aim is to pique local graduates interest in these marginalized occupations.