Canada sees surging contagious COVID variants
2021/3/18 16:39
People walk with face masks in Toronto, Ontario, Canada March , .  OTTAWA  COVID variants are spreading quickly across Canada as some provinces have eased restrictions after cases began to fall last month. A total of , variants of concern cases have been reported across Canada as of Wednesday, with an increase of  new cases of this kind since Monday, the Public Health Agency of Canada tweeted. The variants of concern, which are mutated strains of COVID that act differently in ways that are significant to public health, according to the agency, now include , B... variants,  B.. variants, and  P. variants, show the latest figures. Some , and , cases of the B... variant were reported in Ontario and Alberta, respectively, while British Columbia confirmed  cases of this variant which is believed to be  percent to  percent more contagious. Meanwhile, the country reported a total of , cases and , deaths. Theresa Tam, Canadian chief public health officer, said Wednesday that average daily case counts are now on the rise, noting that national data show a sevenday average of , new cases starting March  and currently there are , active cases across the country. Maintaining public health measures and individual precautions is crucial to reducing infection rates, and avoiding a rapid resurge and its severe outcomes, Tam tweeted. Variant cases have already exceeded  percent of all cases in Ontario, Peter Juni, scientific director of the provinces COVID advisory panel, told Canadian television network CTV News on Wednesday. Its skyrocketing at the moment, he said. Theres no doubt that were entering the third wave, Tasleem Nimjee, physician lead of COVID emergency response and head of medical innovation at Humber River Hospital in Toronto, told CTV. Lets move with vaccination as fast as we can because we are in a race here, Doris Grinspun, head of the Registered Nurses Association of Ontario, told the news channel. Daily counts came down, but we had increasing rates of growth especially driven by variants, primarily the variant first detected in Britain, Grinspun said. So, people need to keep that guard up. The experts said it is time to take strict measures, considering Canadians had relaxed quite a bit after case numbers fell in early January. We havent had stringent public health measures, and we havent restricted movements even between one another, said Grinspun. By the time they wake up it will be too late. We will have lost many, many more people.