Seniors swap sofas for sweatpants
2021/3/18 10:03
A member of a seniors gymnastics team uses swing rings in Tianjin. The team members, who have an average age of , gather every day to hone their athletic skills. LI RANXINHUA A growing number of older people are working out regularly to stay healthy. Zhao Xinying reports. Shen Changlin has become a fitness star among his friends. Eight years ago, severe winter smog and haze forced the exercise fanatic from Xian, Shaanxi province, to stop jogging on the streets and consider new ways of keeping fit. As a solution, Shens son bought him membership at a fitness center near his home. Ever since then, Ive visited the gym almost every day, except for the odd time its been closed, the yearold said. He always starts his session by warming up for  minutes. Thats followed by an hours weight trainingShens favorite gym activityand ends with  minutes jogging on the running machine and a few minutes of stretches to warm down. Many people around me say that I look at least  years younger than my actual age, and they ask for my secret of staying young, Shen said with a smile. My answer to all of them is Keep exercising your body! An older man right, who has practiced boxing for decades, works out at a gym in Hangzhou, Zhejiang province. SONG TAOFOR CHINA DAILY Physical, mental needs Yu Chenjie, marketing director of Shangti Health Technology, a Shanghaiheadquartered company that focuses on improving the health of seniors, said that the groups health is attracting increasing attention from society as the elderly population grows. Ageing is often accompanied by physical deterioration and chronic illness, leaving many older people feeling weak and unhappy. Also, many are lonely because their children work and live in other cities, according to Yu. That means this group of people has a strong need both for physical and mental health. Gyms designed especially for them, where they can do sports safely and also talk with their peers, can meet their needs well, she said. A report released in  by the research center of Cheetah Mobile, an internet company in Beijing, showed that nine out of  people age  and older were in the habit of doing exercise by which they meant they engaged in some form of sports at least once a week. Their main form of exercise was jogging and the most popular venues were parks and playgrounds close to their home communities, according to the report. However, few found professional fitness clubs attractive because of the high cost, it said. Despite that, there are still some pioneers like Shen who visit gyms as frequently as, or even more than, younger people and gain great benefits from regular exercise. Zhang Xiufang, who retired from a local government department in Shanghai five years ago, is one such example. Believing that older people should exercise under professional guidance to ensure safety, she bought membership at a fitness club in the citys Changning district three years ago. Over that time, she has tried many different activities offered by the club and finally decided to focus on Pilates. Now practicing three or four times a week, the yearold said the discipline is particularly suitable for older people because it trains the muscles in a mild way. Longterm activity has helped her lose  kilograms and alleviated her backache, a niggling discomfort that has bothered her since she was young, Zhang said. I feel much more energetic than before, she added. Seniors exercise at a health center designed for older people in Xingtai, Hebei province, in December. ZHANG CHIXINHUA COVID shutdown During the COVID outbreak last year, the gym Xu Baomin used to visit almost every day closed for several months in line with disease control and prevention orders. The resident of Jinan, capital of Shandong province, found the period hard to endure because he felt weaker than before and he gained at least  kg as a result of the lack of exercise. After you have developed the habit of doing something at a certain time every day, you feel uncomfortable when you are suddenly forced to stop doing it, the yearold said. During that period, every time I went out, I stopped by the gym to check if it had reopened. Its not only a place for me to keep fit, but also somewhere to chat and exchange ideas with my peers. Its a lot of fun. When the gym reopened in July, Xu immediately resumed his training schedule. However, to prevent the spread of the novel coronavirus, all gym users were required to wear masks while exercising. That made me short of breath, he said. So, after an hours training in the gym, he often left and jogged on the street for another hour. My craving for exercise was finally satisfied that way, he said.