Chinas UN envoy criticizes unilateral coercive measures
2021/10/26 15:48
US President Joe Biden.  Today, more than half of all Americans disapprove of Bidens performance, dividing the nation as it was under Trump. In fact, Bidens progressive support base is slowly losing trust in his administration. They are uninterested in new Cold Wars against China, Russia, Iran and other countries, and much more concerned with American welfare. The White House has so far fumbled a historic opportunity to reset US economic and foreign policy on a progressive platform, instead becoming mired in its own contradictions. As a result, China has increasingly served as a scapegoat C as it did under the Trump White House. Undermining US economy with China wars In contrast to all postwarUS Democratic Presidents, including Clinton and Obama, as well as their Republican counterparts, President Trump and his skyhigh tariffs shunned trade liberalization, a strong dollar, and the Feds independence. Bidens multilateralist rhetoric masks similar goals, steeped in economic nationalism and inwardoriented trade policy. The net effect is the contradiction between stated multilateral goals with and trade wars against other countries. Biden officials havent indicated they will back down in trade talks. According to US Trade Representative Katherine Tai, the administration wont rule out new tariff actions against China. Yet the White House knows well that current tariff goals are not viable without global recovery, which US protectionism has derailed since . These contradictory debacles were avoidable. When Biden still served in the Obama administration, his chief economic adviser was Jared Bernstein, a highlyregarded progressive economist. When Trump escalated his tariffs in early , Bernstein warned about Washingtons conventional wisdom that China should be penalized for violations of international trade rules. This is a mistake The entire rationale may be misguided, he said. If so, it wont help American workers, and as a protectionist effort, its costs to people across the globe could swamp its benefits. By fall , Bernstein declared Trumps trade policy a disaster and outlined six ideas for the next president to fix trade policy. First, surgical tariffs can be a useful tool, but sweeping tariffs undercut economic recovery. Second, a trade deficit is no scorecard amid the Wests secular stagnation when demand is weak. Third, America needs exportoriented industrial policies, not protectionism. Fourth, effective trade pacts require multiple stakeholders, including developing economies. Fifth, China hasnt engaged in currency manipulation for years, but Trump accused China of such. Finally, the multinationals race for the bottom does not help those left behind smart tax credits and subsidized employment do. Instead of following his former advisers ideas, Biden embraced precisely the opposite ideas the farright Trump administrations disastrous trade policy. Undermining welfare with military overreach Like Trump with his  trillion Covid package, Biden promotes huge direct transfers and lower taxes for workers and the unemployed. While he has already passed a . trillion stimulus package, the administration has struggled to launch another multitrilliondollar package on infrastructure, which divides Democrats and Republicans positioning themselves for the  election. Oddly, parts of the package are explicitly defined as antiChina measures. Ultimately, the real dilemma is that no amount of stimulus spending can offset the Biden administrations fundamental contradiction Sustaining Americas military expenditure has occurred for decades at the expense of welfare, as evidenced by the  trillion that has been spent on post wars in just the past two decades. Effectively, the key role in this equation belongs to current military expenditure, which exceeds  billion, due to outlays by Pentagon and nonPentagon military spending, and expenses accrued by past military outlays, based on veterans benefits plus interest on national debt, which amounts to  billion. Due to its military overreach, the US invests far less than any other major advanced economy on welfare, defined broadly here as human resources, government, and physical infrastructure Figure . Figure  Effectively half of US budget goes to military expenditure  In the conventional view, military expenditure e.g., national defense, veterans accounts for only  of the total because it includes Trust Funds e.g., social security and most of the past military spending is not distinguished from nonmilitary spending. Source Data from Analytical Perspectives Fiscal Year , Budget of the US Government Toward debt crises Understandably, the White House is less vocal about how the worlds most massive fiscal packages, ultralow rates and quantitative easing will be financed. The simple answer is By debt that will not be paid back, but monetized. Today, US outstanding debt has soared to almost  trillion  of GDP consisting of debt held by the public . trillion, which exceeds the size of the US economy, and debt held by government accounts . trillion. In relative terms, the debt held by the public is almost at par with US war debt in . It is projected to nearly double to  of the GDP by  Figure .  Federal debt held by public as  of GDP Source CBO, Mar. . Other factors being equal, this kind of debttaking ultimately leads to the demise of the US as the worlds anchor economy, and the US dollar as the major global reserve currency. And since markets are futureoriented, the reckoning will not wait until the midst century. It is looming ahead. To defer the reckoning, the Biden administration needs to print money, continuously. In addition to current challenges, it is likely to push the Fed to address climate change. And the Fed is likely to comply, to keep its independence. Officially, Biden will not promote a weaker dollar, but the administrations enacted measures will force Fed cooperation to finance huge budget deficits. When the central bank finances public spending, moneyprinting risks unleashing runaway inflation. When inflation begins to rise, as it has since the coronavirus contraction, the Fed has to adopt a policy of benign neglect since a tight antiinflationary policy would trigger a market crash and a severe recession. Such trajectories would be damaging to major foreign holders of federal debt, such as Chinese mainland and Hong Kong, which hold . trillion . of the total more than any other country. Heres still another contradiction If China no longer purchased US securities andor sold a significant share of its dollar holdings, Washington would need other foreign and domestic investors to offset the gap, which would result in higher interest rates. And so, were back in the crash scenarios or worse if foreign investors were to reduce their holdings of US assets en masse. A doctrine without principles Bidens loyalists like to portray him as Truman reincarnated an image that his handlers encourage. In reality, Biden wanted to frame himself as the new Franklin D. Roosevelt. But as Bob Woodward and Robert Costa tell the story in The Peril, in late , thenmajority whip Jim Clayburn persuaded Biden to portray himself as Truman instead. And so he did. The Biden Doctrine is not a doctrine of geopolitical insights or economic policies. It was more about political marketing, even though doctrines without principles are doomed. Hence, the increasing populist need for China as a scapegoat. But unlike Truman, Roosevelt expected the Grand Alliance of United States, Soviet Union, United Kingdom and China to prevail in the postwar era. With gradual diffusion of power, thats the kind of multipolarity that America, China and the world economy desperately need in the st century. Just as the Grand Alliance could have avoided the Cold War and its more than  million fatalities mainly in Asia, it could deter the far costlier and deadlier New Cold Wars that now loom ahead. The views dont necessarily reflect those of China Daily. The author is the founder of Difference Group and has served at the India, China and America Institute USA, Shanghai Institutes for International Studies China, and the EU Centre Singapore.