Sandstorm grounds flights in Gansu, warnings issued in N China
2021/3/15 18:05
Many cities in Gansu reported very poor visibility, with the lowest reaching up to  meters, when the region was struck by the heaviest sandstorms since , according to the local meteorological bureau on Monday. Photo by Su YongFor chinadaily.com.cn All flights to and from airports in five cities in Northwest Chinas Gansu province  Wuwei, Jinchang, Zhangye, Jiuquan and Jiayuguan  have been canceled due to heavy sandstorms that hit the region on Monday, local authorities said. Many cities in Gansu reported very poor visibility, with the lowest reaching up to  meters, when the region was struck by the heaviest sandstorms since , according to the local meteorological bureau on Monday. The cities of Jiuquan and Jiayuguan issued an orange warning signal for sandstorms, the secondhighest in the threetiered warning system, early Monday morning. Authorities said the sandstorm and poor visibility would last till Tuesday in Gansu. And in North Chinas Inner Mongolia autonomous region, the local meteorological department also issued an orange warning on Monday, requiring relevant departments and cities to take concrete and effective antidisaster measures. Local meteorological departments have forecasted the sandstorm will continue to hit the cities of Yinchuan, capital of Northwest Chinas Ningxia Hui autonomous region, and Shizuishan, and the northern part of Wuzhong and Zhongwei cities, with the lowest visibility reaching less than  meters till Tuesday. Many cities in Gansu reported very poor visibility, with the lowest reaching up to  meters, when the region was struck by the heaviest sandstorms since , according to the local meteorological bureau on Monday. Photo by Su YongFor chinadaily.com.cn People walk on the streets wear full coverage, such as masks or other protective gear, in the ongoing sandstorm in Yinchuan, Northwest Chinas Ningxia Hui autonomous region on March , . Photo by Su YongFor chinadaily.com.cn People walk on the streets wear full coverage, such as masks or other protective gear, in the ongoing sandstorm in Yinchuan, Northwest Chinas Ningxia Hui autonomous region on March , . Photo by Su YongFor chinadaily.com.cn People walk on the streets wear full coverage, such as masks or other protective gear, in the ongoing sandstorm in Yinchuan, Northwest Chinas Ningxia Hui autonomous region on March , . Photo by Su YongFor chinadaily.com.cn People walk on the streets wear full coverage, such as masks or other protective gear, in the ongoing sandstorm in Yinchuan, Northwest Chinas Ningxia Hui autonomous region on March , . Photo by Su YongFor chinadaily.com.cn Many cities in Gansu reported very poor visibility, with the lowest reaching up to  meters, when the region was struck by the heaviest sandstorms since , according to the local meteorological bureau on Monday. Photo by Su YongFor chinadaily.com.cn