Recycling to nowhere
2021/3/15 9:30
An Indonesian soldier receives a dose of Chinas Sinovac Biotech vaccine for the coronavirus disease COVID, during a mass vaccination program at a sport hall in Jakarta, Indonesia, March , .  Businesses see vaccinations as key to better productivity and economic fillip A. Ferri Wahyudi Limputra is elated about Indonesias Mutual Help program against COVID as the country awaits more vaccines from China and elsewhere. We in the business community feel happy because were no longer in the dark about when our workers will get vaccinated, said the chief executive officer of PT Pura Mayungan Group of Jakarta. Although we and our workers will still have to keep wearing masks, washing our hands and maintain physical distancing after we are vaccinated, getting inoculated will make us feel a lot more at ease and help us get on with our work. His company makes electrical power distribution products and is a leading partner of the state electricity company PT Perusahaan Listrik Negara. On Feb , Minister of Health Budi Gunadi Sadikin issued a decree that allows private companies to buy vaccines from the government and then get their workers as well as their relatives vaccinated free of charge. The country is battling COVID in all of its provinces. Confirmed cases rose by , within one day to ,,, with the number of deaths rising by  to ,, the Ministry of Health said on Saturday. On March  the ministry announced that a variant of COVID which first detected in the United Kingdom had been found in Indonesia. The Mutual Help program aims to speed up vaccination and designates the Chinamade Sinopharm vaccine for company workers. The vaccines Novavax and Moderna, supply details of which are still being negotiated, will also be part of the program. Pura Mayungan was among more than , companies that had registered by the first week of this month with the Indonesian Chamber of Commerce and Industry to be included in the vaccination drive. If all things go well, inoculation for workers may start next month. That would require approval from the Food and Drug Monitoring Agency and a holy and halal certificate from the Indonesian Ulema Council. More to arrive Honesti Basyir, president director of the stateowned vaccine maker PT Bio Farma, said on March  that , doses of Sinopharm vaccine would arrive in Indonesia between late March and early April, with another  million doses due in June. Adrianto P. Adhi, the president director of the publicly listed property company PT Summarecon Agung Tbk, said workers needed to be inoculated as soon as possible. With the Mutual Help program workers health can be maintained and they can work more productively, meaning businesses can recover more quickly, helping the Indonesian economy to rebound. Summarecon, one of Indonesias largest property companies, has about , of its workers waiting to be vaccinated. Indonesia has imported  million doses of the vaccine, part of  million doses the government has ordered. On March ,  million CoronaVac dosesmade by Chinas pharmaceutical firm Sinovacarrived in Jakarta, the fifth batch since December. PT Bio Farma is responsible for the shipment of the products to provincial offices. Distribution from provincial levels down to village health centers falls to local offices of the health ministry, said Iwan Setiawan, head of the stateowned corporates communications. No serious side effects of Sinovac vaccines have been reported in the country. The ministry has provided the elderly and workers in the tourism industry with drivethrough services, for the time being only in Jakarta and on the resort island of Bali. With the drivethru services, the elderly will not queue and go far to health facilities to get vaccinated, the Indonesian COVID mitigation task forces spokesman Wiku Adisasmito said. Xinhua contributed to this story. The writer is a freelance journalist for China Daily.