Latest on the COVID pandemic
2021/3/13 7:38
A nurse draws a Moderna COVID vaccine, in Los Angeles, California, March , .  US president promises to have all adults eligible for COVID shots by May  US President Joe Biden announced on Thursday that he is directing all states, territories and tribes in the United States to make all adults eligible for COVID vaccines by May  and set a goal for people to be able to gather in small groups by the Fourth of July holiday. Bidens first primetime address to the nation came hours after he signed into law a .trillion coronavirus relief bill that will provide direct payments to many citizens, extend enhanced jobless aid and disburse funds for vaccine distribution efforts, marking his first major legislative victory as president. Biden spoke from the East Room of the White House a year to the day after the World Health Organization declared the spread of the virus a pandemic. Within hours of the declaration, thenpresident Donald Trump spoke from the White House Oval Office and announced he was suspending travel from Europe while also telling the public of the virusThe risk is very, very low. Now, one year later, with deaths topping , in the US and . million worldwide, Biden saidWe all lost somethinga collective suffering, a collective sacrifice, a year filled with the loss of life. But in the loss, we saw how much there was to gain. An appreciation, respect and gratitude. Finding light in the darkness is a very American thing to do. Biden mentioned the loss of faith in government during the pandemic. We lost faith in whether our government and our democracy can deliver on really hard things for the American people, he said. Biden said that by July the Fourth, theres a good chance that families and friends will be able to get together in your backyard or in your neighborhood and have a cookout or a barbecue and celebrate Independence Day. He warned that a return to normal this summer will require the public continue to wear masks, social distance and sign up to be vaccinated in the meantime. Biden also denounced what he called vicious hate attacks against Asian Americans. Biden said Asian Americans have been attacked, harassed, blamed and scapegoated for the COVID pandemic. So many of them are fellow Americans, are on the front lines of this pandemic trying to save livesand still are forced to live in fear for their lives just walking down streets in America, he said.Its wrong. Its unAmerican. And it must stop. A most sweeping directive Making all adults eligible for a vaccine by May  is one of the most sweeping directives so far from Biden, who has largely left decisions to states to determine how to prioritize people for vaccines. His order to eliminate the current prioritization of vaccine eligibility is a reflection, his aides said, of the administrations confidence that there will soon be enough vaccine for everyone, The New York Times reported. While Biden said his announcement wont mean everyone will be able to get a shot by May , he wants everyone to be able to sign up for their first shot by then, according to the White House. New polls released on Thursday underscored the popularity of the relief package and solid approval ratings for Biden as he passes the day mark of his presidency. Despite those high approval ratings for the relief plan, the Biden administration is planning a nationwide sales pitch for the plan, with Biden visiting Pennsylvania on Tuesday.