Biden sets vaccine signpost
2021/3/12 13:47
A person receives a shot of coronavirus disease COVID vaccine at a community vaccination event in Martinsburg, West Virginia, US, March , .  President Joe Biden announced Thursday that he is directing all states, territories and tribes to make all American adults eligible for COVID vaccines by May  and set a goal for the public to be able to gather in small groups by the Fourth of July holiday. Bidens first primetime address to the nation came hours after he signed into law a . trillion coronavirus bill that will provide direct payments to many Americans, extend enhanced jobless aid and disburse funds for vaccine distribution efforts, marking his first major legislative victory as president. Biden spoke from the East Room of the White House a year to the day after the World Health Organization declared the spread of the virus a pandemic and hours later thenPresident Donald Trump spoke from the White House Oval Office and announced he was suspending travel from Europe while also telling Americans of the virus The risk is very, very low. Now, one year later, with more than , dead in the United States and more than . million dead worldwide, Biden said We all lost something  a collective suffering, a collective sacrifice, a year filled with the loss of life, Biden said. But in the loss, we saw how much there was to gain. An appreciation, respect and gratitude. Finding light in the darkness is a very American thing to do, he added. Biden mentioned the loss of faith in government during the pandemic. We lost faith in whether our government and our democracy can deliver on really hard things for the American people, he said. But, he said, the nations response to the deadly disease is proving something he has stressed repeatedly to foreign and US leaders. Its never, ever a good bet to bet against the American people, he said. America is coming back. Biden said that by July the Fourth, theres a good chance that families and friends will be able to get together in your backyard or in your neighborhood and have a cookout or a barbecue and celebrate Independence Day. After this long hard year, he said, that will make this Independence Day something truly special. He warned that a return to normal this summer will require the public continue to wear masks, social distance and sign up to be vaccinated in the meantime. Biden also denounced what he called vicious hate attacks against Asian Americans. Biden said Asian Americans have been attacked, harassed, blamed and scapegoated for the COVID pandemic. So many of them are fellow Americans, are on the front lines of this pandemic trying to save lives  and still are forced to live in fear for their lives just walking down streets in America, he said. Its wrong. Its unAmerican. And it must stop. Making all adults eligible for the COVID vaccine by May  is one of the most sweeping directives so far from Biden, who has largely left decisions to states to determine how to prioritize people for vaccines. His order to eliminate the current prioritization of vaccine eligibility is a reflection, his aides said, of the administrations confidence that there will soon be enough vaccine for everyone, The New York Times reported. While Biden said his announcement wont mean everyone will be able to get a shot by May , he wants everyone to be able to sign up for their first shot by then, according to the White House. New polls released Thursday underscored the popularity of the COVID relief package and solid approval ratings for Biden as he passes the day mark of his presidency. Despite those high approval ratings for the pandemic relief plan, the Biden administration is planning a nationwide sales pitch for the plan, with Biden visiting the election battleground state of Pennsylvania on Tuesday, with a stop in suburban Philadelphia, while VicePresident Kamala Harris plans stops in California, Colorado and Nevada on Monday and Tuesday, White House officials said. The administration also plans to put surrogates and senior administration officials on local TV in markets across the country and mobilize more than  mayors and governors to talk about what the plan means for them and their communities, Reuters reported Thursday.