Third vaccine jab will boost defense China Daily editorial
2021/10/26 9:01
Zhang Yangfei Before I wrote my story about hospital schools, I knew very little about children with leukemia. Through my research, I learned that no one can explain why a disease normally caused by longterm exposure to radiation or chemicals such as benzene would ever occur in children. The illness can undermine the childrens immune systems so badly that a sneeze is potentially lifethreatening. I also learned that a lot of the children could only eat waterboiled potatoes and cabbages without any seasonings. They are only able to eat these simple foods for fear of provoking rejection of solids they cannot digest or of infection. To satisfy their cravings, parents store snacks and sweets in sealed jars, which they leave at their childs bedside. Before I attended the first online class, I had imagined that I would meet a group of children who were either weak or unengaged after long periods of treatment. I was so wrong. They were no different from any other children, except that some had very short hair or no hair at all as a result of chemotherapy. The first class was about making and designing a mask, and I was amazed by how creative the children were. They came up with very rich patterns and colors that looked like birds, foxes and tigers. They were also very open and eager to share the thoughts behind their various designs. Some said they used curves from rubbing art, while others said they drew inspiration from their favorite characters they had seen in comic books. Not one failed to produce a completed piece of art, even though it was an online class where the teacher could not supervise every student. That was when I realized how much these children need the classes. After being confined to small wards and isolated from their peers, they need a platform where they can chat, share and exchange ideas with others like them. They have the desire for, and the right to, a normal education like healthy children and, most importantly, they need much more companionship, attention and support from society. Official data show that around , children are diagnosed with leukemia each year, a number that far exceeds the capacity of the current  hospital schools. Construction of Chinas social welfare program is constantly progressing. As such, it is worth noting that more of these schools will be needed to care for children with serious illnesses and to guarantee their right to an enjoyable and fulfilling education.