Deaths jump  pct during COVID pandemic in US state of Illinois
2021/3/12 9:46
A woman wearing a protective face mask sits, as the global outbreak of the coronavirus disease COVID continues, waiting for the CTA train station at the Berwyn stop in Chicago, Illinois, US, December , .  CHICAGO  Nearly , people died from March , , to Jan , , in the midwest US state of Illinois, as tallied on a weekly basis by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention CDC,  percent higher than the average of , deaths for the same week period from  to . Not the highest in the United States, Illinois percent increase in deaths still led all its neighboring states by  to  percentage points. COVID virus is to blame for most of these extra deaths, but not all, the Chicago Tribune reported on Thursday. For every five known COVID deaths in Illinois, there were two other deaths that exceeded the typical numbers. During the  months from March  to Jan. , the CDC estimates COVID was blamed for , deaths in Illinois. Taking out the COVID deaths leaves an additional , deaths above the average that were not tied to the coronavirus. Illinoisans aged  saw deaths increase nearly  percent above average. For those aged , the increase was  percent. Even the middleaged saw a bigger jump than the oldest age group for example, those aged  died at rates  percent more than average. The only age group to see a drop in deaths was people under , with a slight dip of less than  percent, the Chicago Tribune reported. Illinois typically records roughly , deaths among Hispanic residents in the last  months of a year. But in , CDC estimated the figure at more than ,, nearly  percent higher than average and roughly doubling the percent jump in deaths among Black residents. For nonHispanic white Illinoisans, the jump was  percent. For , CDC estimated that in the sevenweek period ending Feb. , Illinois will report roughly , deaths, about , more than average or up  percent from what the state typically reports for the time frame.