Shippers, container makers in overdrive
2021/3/12 9:38
Visitors to the third China International Import Expo gather at an entrance to the expo at the National Exhibition and Convention Center in Shanghai on Nov .  China to pursue highstandard openingup, improved performance in foreign trade and investment amid ongoing pandemic Countless containers await loading at the cargo terminal of Shekou Port in Shenzhen, Guangdong province, amid sustained global demand for Chinese exportsa testimony to the newfound paramount significance of supply systems and logistics in the wake of the COVID pandemic. Our production schedule has been filled up till the second half of this year, said Mai Boliang, chairman and CEO of China International Marine Containers Group Ltd, adding that the companys employees didnt have much time to relax during the Spring Festival period as they raised container production volume from more than , units to over , units per month. Similar to CIMCs move to work extra hours during the Spring Festival period to supply goods to global markets, a large number of Chinese companies have been doing the same to ensure the smooth running of the countrys giant global supply chain. Even though some media outlets and politicians in certain countries are accusing China of seeking to dominate the global industrial and supply chains amid the pandemic,Mai said the country was busy accelerating common development and prosperity last year as it signed the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership agreement and completed talks for the Comprehensive Agreement on Investment with the European Union. China will pursue highstandard openingup and promote stable and improved performance in foreign trade and investment, said Premier Li Keqiang in the Government Work Report delivered at the fourth session of the th National Peoples Congress on Mar . The country will open up more sectors of the economy in a more thorough fashion and participate more fully in international economic cooperation, according to the report. With the push of the new dual circulation development paradigm, both China and the global economy will be better developed in open cooperation, said Yang Yuanqing, a deputy to the th National Peoples Congress, and CEO and chairman of Lenovo Group Ltd. From a domestic perspective, economic development can no longer rely on the input of land, capital, labor and other factors, but must be more innovationdriven. This is inseparable from indepth domestic and international cooperation, said Zhang Shuibo, a member of the th National Committee of the Chinese Peoples Political Consultative Conference and a professor of economics at Tianjin University. It is ridiculous for some people to relate the impact of the pandemic with ideological differences, because such deeds will harm the interests of all countries, said Zhang Yansheng, chief researcher at the Beijingbased China Center for International Economic Exchanges. The pandemic has disrupted global investment and industrial chains, and China was able to register betterthanexpected foreign trade performance last year simply because it was able to produce and export supplies to other countries after its strict and effective prevention and control measures over the disease were effective, Zhang said. China was the only major economy in the world to achieve positive growth in the trade of goods in , with its foreign trade growing . percent yearonyear to . trillion yuan . trillion, said the General Administration of Customs. The country also managed to restore export orders while stimulating domestic demand, leading to a rebound in imports, according to the GAC. Zhang believes that it is significant for China to step up production and supply protective masks and other materials that are in dire need by people in other countries. It is also worthy of notice that such an increase in Chinas exports, be they medical devices or personal protective equipment, is temporary as they are related to the pandemic, while the situation is expected to ease when vaccinations begin to work, Zhang added. In addition to producing standard shipping containers that are  kilograms lighter than foreign containers and come with a cheaper price tag, CIMCs Mai said the company has already invented a highend storage compartment featuring a constant temperature that can be transported by container vessels, freight trains or via airfreight. Rafael Suchan, managing director and CEO of Scholz Recycling Group, a Germany scrap metal processing company, said China reacted quickly and decisively when the pandemic broke out. The Chinese economy is reaping the fruits of these bold moves. The country currently is driving global economic growth which is crucial for all economies around the world. Chinas growth is crucial for a global economic rebound in , Suchan said. He said China has clearly shown that it is delivering on its commitment to openingup. The signing of the RCEP and the conclusion of negotiations on the ChinaEU CAI show that other countries are confirming the openingup efforts of China. These agreements have been signed and agreed to by both sides, and hence, the signing of such agreements is a powerful statement that all sides have faith in future prospects. The message from the Chinese government that it is considering joining the Comprehensive and Progressive Agreement for TransPacific Partnership further demonstrates the countrys commitment to more open and inclusive growth, said the German company executive. These free trade pacts can benefit many countries. For instance, the Cumulative Rules of Origin under the RCEP framework will substantially boost member countries foreign trade and outbound direct investment activities in partner countries in the next stage, said Jiang Feng, directorgeneral of the department of duty collection at the GAC. The cumulative rules are applied when the production process of goods involves different member countries or regions under the same preferential trade agreement. An international cargo ship is about to disembark from the Qingdao Qianwan container terminal in Shandong province. ZHANG JINGANGFOR CHINA DAILY Jiangs sentiments are shared by See Chee Kong, minister of economic affairs at the embassy of Malaysia in China. He said with trade and investment barriers being removed, the RCEP is expected to generate fresh momentum for member countries. The outbreak of COVID was a surprise to all, but it is unfair and groundless to say China exploits opportunities from the pandemic while in fact the nation has been making great efforts to stabilize global industrial and supply chains for the containment of the pandemic and the world economic recovery, said Zhou Mi, a senior researcher at the Chinese Academy of International Trade and Economic Cooperation in Beijing. Zhou said China always contributes to the improvement of the international economic and trade order through working with all parties to advance World Trade Organization reforms and fix its dispute settlement mechanisms, and supports the enhancement of international economic and trade rules and trade facilitation. Under the impact of the pandemic, it is normal that companies choose to invest in markets where supply and industrial chains are relatively stable and market potential is huge. China achieved fast rebounds in economic growth and foreign trade after the shock of the pandemic last year, largely due to its attraction to companies because of the favorable policy environment and huge market, he added. With an annual growth of . percent, the Chinese economy was the worlds only major economy to have avoided contraction in . Its . trillion yuan GDP is estimated to account for more than  percent of the worlds economy, said the National Bureau of Statistics in late February. Thanks to effective measures to contain the pandemic, the Chinese market has recovered faster than many others, and thus attracted many other trading partners to strengthen their economic and trade ties with China. For example, the Association of Southeast Asian Nations became Chinas biggest trading partner in  amid upgraded free trade area protocols and supply chain cooperation. As it is unlikely that the world will fully contain the pandemic over the short term, it is expected that new trade models such as ecommerce and artificial intelligenceempowered online transactions will become more effective. Industrial and supply chains need to be upgraded, Zhou said. Faced with the pandemic, he said it is normal that sometimes there are misunderstandings among members of the international community. But it is important for different countries to cooperate, jointly deal with the crisis and seek development pathways, rather than point fingers at each other or resort to protectionism and isolation. Due to the pandemic, many overseas manufacturers have either suspended their production or shut their factories to avoid health risks. This has further stimulated market demand for various industrial goods and daily necessities across the world, said Li Xingqian, directorgeneral of the foreign trade department at the Ministry of Commerce. Despite many Chinese companies raising their output, they also bore the pressure of growing labor and shipping costs, as well as price rises of imported materials to produce goods for stayathome products and other key goods. Since China produced  face masks for every person around the world in , no other economy could compete with the country in the global supply chain and the contribution it has supplied to the worlds fight against the pandemic, said Li Kuiwen, directorgeneral of the GACs statistics and analysis department. China had maintained its position as the worlds largest trading nation in goods over the past five years, with its imports and exports taking up a recordhigh share in the global market. The countrys total foreign trade rose . percent to reach . trillion yuan during the th FiveYear Plan period , the GAC said. With growing protectionism and the COVID pandemic, global trade is more important than ever, said Javier Gimeno, senior vicepresident of SaintGobain SA, a French industrial conglomerate. All countries and regions depend on open, transparent and rulesbased trade to provide reliable access to essential goods and services to boost their economies, he said. The company plans to open at least  plants during Chinas th FiveYear Plan period  to ramp up its production capacity in China, in order to meet growing demand in both China and abroad. Together with the growth of the Belt and Road Initiative, he said people living in lessdeveloped countries in Asia, Africa and Europe will see new infrastructure projects grow and numerous jobs will be created in their markets. They will feel the tangible spillover effect of Chinas booming economy.