Pompeos facttwisting China speech versus the truth
2021/3/12 7:56
Employees work on a mask production line at a medical supplies company in Zaozhuang, Shandong province. Photo by Sun Zhongzhefor China Daily The United States is extending tariff exclusions on about  categories of medical products from China until Sept , to support the fight against COVID, the US Trade Representative office said on Wednesday. The exclusion covers a wide range of items from medical masks and gloves to blood pressure cuff sleeves and Xray tables. The earlier tariff exclusion extension on these medical products was set to lapse on March . In the Federal Register notice announcing the extension, the US Trade Representative said,In light of the continuing efforts to combat COVID, the US Trade Representative has determined that it is inappropriate to allow the exclusions for certain products to lapse. Zhang Yansheng, chief researcher at Beijingbased China Center for International Economic Exchanges, said China is able to produce and export medical supplies to other countries because it has been taking strict and effective prevention and control measures against the disease, and thus is able to resume production and business activities fast and effectively. It is significant for China to step up production and supply protective masks and other materials that are needed by people in other countries, Zhang said. China, one of the worlds major mask and protective gear producers, has been stepping up production to meet overseas demand for related supplies, marking its contribution to the global fight against the pandemic. The Chinese authorities issued a new policy measure last March to ensure the quality of medical supply exports. Exporters of medical products including COVID testing kits, medical masks, medical protective suits, ventilators and infrared thermometers are required to provide extra documentation containing a declaration that the products have been officially registered in China and meet the qualitycontrol standards of respective export destinations.