UK variant found more deadly in study
2021/3/11 14:36
A man wearing a protective face mask walks past an illustration of a virus outside a regional science centre amid the coronavirus disease COVID outbreak, in Oldham, Britain on August , .  The number of coronavirus cases in the US caused by the UK variant is rising, and researchers said Wednesday that the UK variant is between  percent and  percent more deadly than other variants as drugmakers seek allinone COVID vaccines to target it and other variants. The B... variant first identified in the United Kingdom already had been identified as being significantly quicker and easier to spread, and now a study in the British Medical Journal published Wednesday said researchers at the University of Exeter and the University of Bristol have found the variant has a significantly higher mortality rate among adults compared with previously circulating strains. The universities said in a statement that the UK strain was between  percent and  percent more deadly than other variants. The B... variant was first detected in Britain in September  and has since also been found in more than  other countries. It has  mutations in its genetic code  a relatively high number  and some of them have made it far more easily spread. Scientists say it is about  percent more transmissible than previous dominant variants that were circulating. The UK study showed that the new variant led to  deaths in a sample of , patients compared with  among the same number of closely matched patients who had the previous strains. In the community, death from COVID is still a rare event, but the B... variant raises the risk, Robert Challen, lead author of the study from the University of Exeter, said in a statement. Coupled with its ability to spread rapidly, this makes B... a threat that should be taken seriously. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention CDC, there are , cases of the B... variant in the US. Only Oklahoma, Vermont and South Dakota report no cases. SARSCoV appears able to mutate quickly, and there is a real concern that other variants will arise with resistance to rapidly rolled out vaccines, Ellen BrooksPollock, one of the authors of the research, said in the statement. Monitoring for new variants as they arise, measuring their characteristics and acting appropriately needs to be a key part of the public health response in the future. Even though there isnt evidence indicating that vaccines currently available dont protect against variants, a new lab study published in the journal Nature on Wednesday shows that Pfizers and Modernas shots were far less effective against the variant B.. first identified in South Africa. CDC data shows that as of Tuesday there are  cases of the B.. variant in  US states. The study found that the percentage of protective antibodies that neutralized the South Africa variant was . times less effective for Modernas COVID shot than against the original coronavirus, and . times less for Pfizers. If the rampant spread of the virus continues and more critical mutations accumulate, then we may be condemned to chasing after the evolving SARSCoV continually, as we have long done for influenza virus. Such considerations require that we stop virus transmission as quickly as is feasible, by redoubling our mitigation measures and by expediting vaccine rollout, the authors wrote in the research paper. Pharmaceutical companies are exploring ways to strengthen the current vaccine protection by adding doses to the exiting shots, updating the shots or crafting a booster. A multivalent shot is another approach in the works. Several vaccine makers have said their vaccines are effective against the coronavirus variants. But to be safe, researchers at Moderna, Novavax and the University of Oxford are pursuing new shots, known as multivalent COVID vaccines, as research suggested emerging variants could partly escape protection from the vaccines currently in use. A multivalent vaccine is designed to immunize against two or more strains of the same virus. Developing multivalent vaccines is to protect not only against the coronavirus variants that have been identified so far, but also potentially contagious strains that might emerge in the future. If there are two or three predominant worldwide strains, and infection or immunity to one doesnt protect against the others, then we may need multivalent vaccines, Buddy Creech, director of Vanderbilt Universitys vaccine research program, told The Wall Street Journal. Multivalent vaccines are widely used against other viruses, such as measles, mumps and rubella. Some pneumonia vaccines target as many as  strains, while multivalent flu vaccines targeting three or four different influenza strains have protected against multiple variants circling the globe.