Chinese shots turn tide in Middle East
2021/3/11 9:25
Editors note A draft decision on improving the electoral system of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region is being deliberated at the ongoing session of the National Peoples Congress. In particular, the principle of patriots administering Hong Kong  ensuring that whoever is administering Hong Kong is patriotic  has attracted wide attention. Why should people administering Hong Kong be patriots? Is this a common practice? Readers share their opinions. Sabrina Hong Kong is part of China  it always has been and always will. That means if a person truly loves the city of Hong Kong, the precondition is that heshe loves China, to which Hong Kong belongs. Think about this. If a US presidential candidate doesnt sincerely express patriotic feelings about the United States, that largely means political suicide. A flagraising ceremony is held at the Golden Bauhinia Square on Hong Kong Island to celebrate the st anniversary of the founding of the Peoples Republic of China, Oct , .  Daily kitty Hong Kong is an inseparable part of China and no one can deny the history and the fact. Chinas central government has invested lots of resources to support Hong Kongs development since its return to the motherland. Remember the  financial crisis? Hong Kong also has been enjoying the benefits as a gateway to the Chinese mainland for internationals and financial institutions. Its common sense to say loving your motherland is loving your provincestatecitycounty, your home! But the West is trying to meddle in Chinas internal affairs which made situations in Hong Kong seem complicated. Nonetheless, its very simple when you think about it within the framework of saying Hong Kong is an inseparable part of China! Do you think loving Alaska is loving the United States? Or, loving Edinburgh is loving the UK? If so, supporting the oneChina principle is the bottom line of loving Hong Kong, the best and the only way to support its better future. A ship carrying the slogan of celebrating the rd anniversary of Hong Kongs return to the motherland sails at the Victoria Harbour in Hong Kong, China, July , .  cditoeaymtvuuum Loving the country comes first, followed by loving Hong Kong. As you all know, HK is a special administrative region of China. If you dont love your motherland, how could you love HK? The love for your motherland and HK are inextricable. If you look around the world, youll find that leaders at all levels first speak of love for their country before the regions they govern. Trying separate these two loves makes no sense. While Ive never been to HK, Ive learned lot about it by watching many HK TV series or dramas broadcast on the local television station. Why do I love these shows so deeply? Because they focus on a place thats also a part of my country. So the whole idea of patriots governing HK makes perfect sense to me. Only those who truly love a place could provide the best leadership. Otherwise, how could you guarantee good governance?  Haoxiao Hong Kong and the motherland are in the same blood. How could people separate them from another? Those who said they could love HK without loving its motherland might have an misunderstanding between the relationship of HK and its motherland. They only see HK as an independent political entity and never seriously thought about HK peoples responsibility and the obligation to the country. I have been to HK several times. It had undergone great changes as it managed to deeply connect to its motherland. Photo shows a view by the Victoria Harbor in Hong Kong, Dec , .  Nancy No matter the country, loyalty to the motherland is the basic political ethics that public officials and candidates must abide by. Patriots governing Hong Kong is the bottomline requirement. It is completely constitutional, legitimate, and unquestioned. Citizens sign in support of the patriots administering Hong Kong principle and improving the electoral system in the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region in the Wan Chai district on Saturday. ZHANG WEICHINA NEWS SERVICE Valricky Ive been to HK several times. During my visits, I saw nothing but a prosperous metropolitan area and hardworking people. Traditional Chinese culture and the modern culture are both respected, and the Cantonese cuisine there is absolutely tempting. I absolutely adore the city, but never had I imagined the city would have gone through such terrible damage caused by those instigators of HK unrest. No system is  percent flawless, and its is clear that there is still much that needs to be improved in HKs political and social systems. However, lets not forget that the idea of patriots governing HK was brought up even BEFORE Chinas resumption of exercise of sovereignty over HK, and it is the essence of one country, two systems. I highly doubt that those socalled free world countries would allow a person who doesnt support hisher own country to run the government. Thus the idea or practice of patriots governing HK shall not be negotiable  it is written in the Constitution of the PRC and the Basic Law of HKSAR. People wearing face masks are seen in Hong Kong, China, Jan , .  Robert Hong Kong is an indivisible part of China. Its society and culture originate in the motherland, while its politics and economy are deeply influenced by its motherland. And Hong Kong is an organized combination of these social, cultural, political and economic factors. There is no way to differentiate a branch from its trunk. How can a branch grow without the support from its trunk? If HK is the branch, its trunk must be its motherland. Love Hong Kong, Love China. Students from a school in Tung Chung, New Territories, Hong Kong Special Administrative Region, kick off a new semester by holding a flagraising ceremony on Sept , . Photo provided to chinadaily.com.cn