Execs optimistic about Chinas growth
2021/3/11 7:01
Lynchelle Siu left, Christa Lackey second right and Kyla Eastman right from Lincoln High School in Tacoma, Washington, United States, pose with students from Bolivia at the US booth of the Shanghai International Youth Interactive Friendship Camp in Shanghai in . Photo provided to China Daily Students and teachers at a high school in Tacoma, Washington, United States, have expressed their delight after receiving a very special message from China. It was the second timethe first was in that President Xi Jinping had written them a letter. About four weeks ago, Patrick Erwin, principal of Lincoln High School, sent a letter to Xi. He wrote about the exchanges between his school and China over the years and how the educational partnership is important to his students. President Xi is a strong believer in educational exchanges. He had written to my students before. But I never had an expectation for this response, said Erwin. Erwin got a message on Monday from Xi via the Chinese ConsulateGeneral in San Francisco. Xi said he had received the letter and encouraged students at the school to build a bridge for peopletopeople exchanges between China and the US. Xi visited Lincoln High School in , at the start of a state visit to the US. He brought gifts, including a pingpong table and books about China, and later sent a personal invitation for the students to visit China. In , nearly  of them took him up on the offer. Xi and first lady Peng Liyuan sent them a letter afterward inviting them to return. Since then, the school has arranged annual visits to China. Students have visited cities including Beijing, Shanghai, Chengdu and Dujiangyan in Sichuan province and Fuzhou in Fujian province. The last time Lincoln High students got a chance to visit China was in July , when they participated in the International Youth Interactive Friendship Camp in Shanghai, an opportunity for foreign students to learn about traditional Chinese culture through lessons and outdoor activities with local volunteers. They still regularly communicate on WeChat with friends they met from Shanghai, New Zealand, Australia and elsewhere. Around three years ago, the school took five students to visit China, and one of them did not know what to expect, Erwin said. He was excited to go, but he had never traveled and had never been on a plane. Not long ago, when I saw this student, who is now in college, he gave me a hug and said he thinks about the trip to China every day, Erwin said. It is a lifechanging experience, both in terms of the travel itself, and the exposure to the culture, the history and the Chinese people, Erwin said. My students all want to go back to China and study in China. Due to the political situation between the two countries and the coronavirus pandemic, the trips to China last year were canceled, but Erwin said that as soon as travel is viable, there will be another student trip to China. We still dont have specific plans in terms of where we would go, Erwin told China Daily, but he said Chengdu with the panda base is always on the priority list. The city of Tacoma and the Washington State Panda Foundation gathered about , surgical face masks and sent them to Fuzhou, Fujian, early last year. Last summer, when a shortage of personal protective equipment was endangering the safety of people in Tacoma, Fuzhou donated more than , N masks to the city.