Vaccine passports face potential problems
2021/3/11 4:32
 ANCHORAGE, Alaska  Alaska, one of the most successful US states in inoculating its residents, has become the first to make COVID vaccines available to anyone age  or older, eliminating eligibility requirements for people who work or live there. Governor Mike Dunleavy, a Republican, announced the new rules on Tuesday for his state of about , people. More than one quarter of Alaskans have received least one vaccine shot, second only to New Mexico, according to data from the US. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention CDC. Certain regions of Alaska are nearing a  vaccination rate among elderly people, officials said. Many states are struggling to meet the vast demand for vaccines. Differing eligibility requirements have created a patchwork system, with certain states still restricting vaccines to adults  or older, along with people in highrisk groups. The COVID vaccines developed by Moderna and Johnson  Johnson are approved only for people age  and older, but younger Alaskans can receive the Pfizer vaccine. Officials hope that making vaccinations widely available will boost the crucial tourism industry ahead of the summer. Alaskas also somewhat of a seasonal state with regard to aspects of the economy, Dunleavy said at a news conference. Were hoping that we can get the cruise ships back there, the tourism industry back here. As of Tuesday morning, more than  million doses of the COVID vaccines had been distributed in the United States and . million shots had been administered, according to the CDC. REOPENINGS ACCELERATE Nonetheless, as the pace of inoculations picks up, several states have moved to relax COVID restrictions. North Carolina Governor Roy Cooper on Wednesday announced an agreement reached with legislative, health and education leaders to reopen many schools in the state for full inperson learning. Under the plan, all elementary schools would return to inperson education fulltime while districts would choose whether middle schools and high schools are to reopen their classrooms or offer hybrid learning, officials said. The new legislation is expected to move through the legislature this week. In California, the Los Angeles Unified School District and its teachers union on Tuesday reached a tentative deal for students to return to school in April. The agreement is contingent on teacher vaccinations against COVID, extensive health measures and the countys impending exit from Californias most restrictive tier of health regulations. Earlier this week, New York Citys public school system  the nations largest  said it would welcome high school students back to the classroom on March  as part of its gradual reopening. The city also welcomed back movie fans to theaters last week, nearly a year since cinemas went dark. Texas and Mississippi have taken bolder actions, lifting statewide mask mandates and most restrictions on businesses. Maryland Governor Larry Hogan took similar action on Tuesday when he removed several mitigation measures, including limits on outdoor and indoor dining. Reuters