Reply letter from Xi inspires US high school
2021/3/10 12:29
A sign promotes maskwearing at a bar as the state of Texas prepares to lift its mask mandate and reopen businesses to full capacity during the COVID pandemic in Houston, Texas, US, March , .  Texas is  percent open on Wednesday for businesses, and masks are no longer required by state order, but the lifting of the regulation has left many businesses frustrated to have to deal with the highly politicized issue of maskwearing. Immediately following Republican Governor Greg Abbotts announcement on March  that it is now time to open Texas  percent, the San Antoniobased grocery chain HEB announced that it will encourage instead of require customers to continue to wear masks in its stores. That decision caused a backlash from loyal customers and was criticized by two members of the San Antonio City Council. CEO Scott McClelland told the Houston Chronicle that belligerent customers have caused nearly , instore incidents related to masks at Houston stores alone. HEB, founded in Texas in , has  stores in Texas and Mexico and , employees. McClelland said that of all the issues the grocery chain has dealt with over the last year, masks are the most polarizing because in part they are used as a political weapon. A Houston HEB store manager described such incidents to the website Vice last December Many have become verbally and even physically abusive in some stores. I have been personally told by customers that HEB does not honor the rights they fought for in the war, told they have medical concerns with masks, and I was violating their rights and HIPAA laws. Whats important to me is, Ive got to ensure for the physical safety of both my employees and customers in the store, McClelland said. Thats what we have been doing, and frankly its the same thing well continue to do. However, loyal customers accused HEB of putting profit ahead of customers health safety. One online comment reads He McClelland is punishing loyal customers for a minority who exhibit disruptive behavior. It seems HEB wants to play the left and the right on the same issue, reads another online comment. The backlash prompted HEB to reverse its policy and to issue another statement on Friday regarding masks While statewide policy has changed, our store protocol has not. Mask use at our stores will remain. While HEB reversed its policy, some businesses have faced intimidation for requiring masks. Picos, a Mexican restaurant in Houston, announced that it would continue to require masks. That drew a few hateful messages on social media. Some called the restaurant, threatening to report staffers to Immigration and Customs Enforcement ICE. It was just horrific, Picos coowner Monica Richards told The Texas Tribune. People dont understand unless youre in our business what it felt like, how hard it was to go through everything we went through during COVID. For people to be negative toward us for trying to remain safe, so that this doesnt continue to happen, just makes zero sense to us. Another Houston Mexican restaurant, Cantina Barba, had similar experiences. This has been ongoing through COVID. Weve had threats of calling ICE. I had one guy just stand there and berate one of my bartenders and tell her, Youre an absolute idiot, you dont know what youre doing. If you think these masks are going to save your life, youre stupid, blah, blah, blah. Nobody wants to deal with that stuff, coowner Steven OSullivan told the Tribune. Al Jara, owner of the Houston bar Marquis II, bemoaned having to take a stand on the politically charged issue of masks I dont believe the onus should be on small business, especially in the hospitality industry. Over the last year, weve been hurt the most, and requiring us now to take a side on the mask isnt right in my opinion. Last week, Houston Police Chief Art Acevedo stepped in to show support for private businesses requiring masks. Private businesses enjoy property rights and may require folks to wear a mask, he wrote on Twitter. Please respect their property rights. If you decline to wear a mask and are asked to leave and refuse, you may be committing the offense of criminal trespass. Acevedo encouraged businesses to call police for help if someone wont leave the store and said those who dont like a business policy can go elsewhere. Abbotts decision to lift the mandate will make Texas the largest state to not require masks, but the state capital Austin is keeping a mask requirement in place. Austin Chief Medical Officer Mark Escott announced Tuesday the states fourthlargest city will remain in stage , the secondhighest risk level. That stage advises individuals to avoid nonessential travel and recommends that businesses operate at  to  percent capacity, in addition to the wearing of face coverings. The rules are in effect until April  and require all over age  to wear a face covering. The majority of Texas restaurant owners say they will continue requiring staff to wear masks, but they are split on making the same demands of customers, according to the Texas Restaurant Association, which informally surveyed its members this week. The associations updated guidance recommends restaurants require employees to wear masks and encourage guests to do the same, spokesperson Anna Tauzin said. If a restaurant requires masks, it is unfair to argue the choice infringes on business, Tauzin said. This is a decision business owners are making, and its right for them.