Alaska opens vaccine resident age  and up as more US states reopen
2021/3/10 10:27
A painting by the unidentified British street artist Banksy will be auctioned this month to raise funds for the NHS. CHINA DAILY A painting by the stillunidentified British street artist Banksy is set to raise more than  million pounds . million for the National Health Service when it goes to auction later this month. The artwork, titled Game Changer, first appeared in Southampton General Hospital on May , , during the first wave of the global COVID pandemic. The painting shows a young boy playing with superhero dolls. While Batman and SpiderMan lie discarded in a bin, the child clutches a masked nurse dressed in the uniform of the International Red Cross flying to the rescue, her cape fluttering and arm outstretched toward the sky. The artist is now auctioning the original canvas with proceeds benefitting the NHS. A reproduction of the work will remain on view in the hospital. Auction house Christies said the painting offers an image of hope and represents a personal tribute to those who continue to turn the tide of the pandemic. When the picture was first unveiled, an accompanying note said Thanks for all youre doing. I hope this brightens the place up a bit, even if its only black and white. The auction house said until now, the work has only been seen in person by frontline medical staff and those admitted to hospital for treatment. The auction marks Game Changers first appearance outside the hospital. The painting has a presale estimate of . million to . million pounds. Katharine Arnold, cohead of PostWar and Contemporary Art, Europe at Christies, said Game Changer is a universal tribute to those around the world fighting on the frontline of the crisis. At a time when we can dare to hope once more, and look at life beyond the pandemic, it is important to reflect on the many symbols of strength and hope we have seen internationally since the beginning of , Arnold said. Banksys Game Changer was a beacon of light for the staff and patients at Southampton General Hospital and it was the artists wish to then auction it with proceeds benefitting the NHS. The work pays tribute to the strength and resilience of those who have demonstrated true leadership throughout the pandemic, the staff of our vital NHS, the nations true heroes. The work can be seen from the Duke Street Gallery window at Christies Headquarters in London until March , ahead of the auction on March .