Foreign media misses poverty alleviation mark
2021/3/9 0:00
At a gleaming hall packed with masked reporters last week in Beijing, one with the Associated Press of Pakistan rose with a question for the CPPCC National Committee sessions spokesman. He asked if the threshold that China uses to track its poverty relief campaign is lower than the global norms. One day later, at the same venue, another with Singapores Strait Times made a similar inquiry to the NPC sessions spokesperson. Please explain how the Chinese threshold differs from its global counterparts, she said in earnest. Since last week, the world has beheld the Chinese capital for the two sessionsthe annual meetings of the countrys top advisory body, the Chinese Peoples Political Consultative Conference National Committee, and the countrys top legislature, the National Peoples Congress. The dual gatherings opened on Thursday and Friday, respectively, at the Great Hall of the People. An hourlong news conference customarily precedes each, serving as a barometer of the global interests in Chinas domestic affairs. I kind of expected the spike in interest surrounding Chinas sweeping antipoverty drive, which I have followed for years. Thats partly because two weeks ago President Xi Jinping announced the historic end of absolute poverty on the Chinese mainland. However, I was a bit surprised as well by the limited knowledge outside China about even the campaigns basics. The ignorance is partly reflected in the enthusiasm to mechanically hold Chinas poverty threshold against the global variations. By doing that, some have subconsciously, if not maliciously, hidden the fact that Chinas definition for poverty alleviation is in practice multidimensional. That is the message that Zhang Yesui, spokesman for the NPC session, and Guo Weimin, spokesman for the CPPCC National Committee session, attempted to convey. To put their words bluntly, China cares about poor farmers incomes. It also cares about whether the poor can afford sufficient food and clothing, and whether they can afford to visit hospitals, attend schools, live in safe homes and drink clean watera set of standards that officials employ to assess poverty in the field. The nonmonetary threshold, however, is less known to the outside world. Over a span of eight years, China hoisted the income of almost  million poor farmers above the , yuan  annual per capita income threshold. It was set in  and adjusted annually for inflation. When central authorities put forward the targeted poverty alleviation strategy in , the benchmark was inherited to track the progress in the field. At the time, the other alternatives included a . a day threshold, set by the World Bank in , and a . a day threshold that the United Nations adopted in the same year in its  Agenda for Sustainable Development. Zhang stressed on Thursday that the Chinese threshold is actually higher than both alternatives when purchasing power parity is taken into account. That has done China justice. Some have accused China of using the World Banks lower standard. Indeed, the World Bank rolled out higher thresholds for betteroff nations. Those include a . a day threshold for lowermiddleincome countries and . a day threshold for highermiddleincome countries. But it was in , three years after China decided on the , yuan threshold. And they are intended as a reference. The timeline alone shows the conspiracy theory is false. While on a November pilgrimage to Longnan, Gansu province, a showcase of how farmers escaped poverty using ecommerce, I had a brief but insightful talk with Matteo Marchisio, the East Asia head of the International Fund for Agricultural Development, a UN agency. He contended that quibbling about the exact rate of poverty risks missing the bigger pictureChina has managed to raise the income of hundreds of millions of people above the poverty line in a very few years. That is the reasoning that applies in the debate about the poverty threshold. Contact the writer at lileichinadaily.com.cn Li Lei