In pursuit of Paralympic excellence
2021/3/8 9:25
Chinas wheelchair curlers are preparing for the  Winter Paralympics at a custombuilt venue in Beijings Yanqing district.  One year out from the Games, Team Chinas preparations benefitting from nations successful COVID fight One year away from the Beijing  Winter Paralympics, Chinese athletes are well on track in their preparations for the event despite the disruption caused by the COVID pandemic. China made a breakthrough at the  Pyeongchang Winter Games when it won the countrys first ever Paralympic gold medalin wheelchair curling. Hopes are high the team can repeat the feat on home ice at the National Aquatics Center, aka the Ice Cube, next year. We are eager to raise the Chinese national flag at the Ice Cube next year at the Beijing Paralympic Games and its a goal were trying to achieve, said Hu Junfu, assistant manager of the Chinese wheelchair curling team. Like all athletes, the pandemic has forced Chinas Paralympians to tailor their preparations for the Games. But while competitive action has been severely limited, training has been as thorough as ever. When COVID broke out, we formulated an effective program in virus prevention under the supervision of the China Disabled Persons Federation. We provided various epidemic prevention materials including face masks and disinfectants, said Hu. Para crosscountry skiing is one of six sports that will feature at the Beijing  Winter Paralympics. WEI XIAOHAOCHINA DAILY Thanks to the adoption of stringent anticoronavirus measures, training continues apace for all of Team Chinas  Paralympic hopefuls in six sportsPara alpine skiing, Para snowboarding, Para crosscountry skiing, Para biathlon, Para ice hockey and wheelchair curling. They are coached by  staff, including seven foreigners. We have a slogan that says, Everyone is part of the fight against COVID, everyone should be a model in the fight, said Hu. It was really encouraging to earn China its firstever gold medal in Pyeongchang, but I have been reminding my athletes repeatedly that its already in the past when they stepped down from the podium. We have to start from the very beginning and we have to keep training hard. Wang Jianbin, manager of the Chinese Para ice hockey team which was established in , is also eying a podium spot for his charges. Though our team was built not long ago, I have confidence we will reach our goal of a topsix finish while striving for third place. We are able to meet the objective, supported by our concerted efforts and team spirit, said Wang. Wangs confidence stems from the squads unwavering dedication and team spirit. For now, the players are in good form thanks to our consistent training. We have a great coaching team and a strong logistics support team, he said. We have a vibrant squad full of spirit, energy and bravery. Team Chinas wheelchair curlers will defend their Paralympic title at the  Beijing Games.  According to Yong Zhijun, competition and training department director of the China Disabled Persons Federation, China had only participated in two Para sports prior to its bid to host the  Winter Olympics. From a total of less than  Para athletes at that time, China now has a pool of around , to choose from. Since , China has collected  gold medals in  Paralympic series events. As the Beijing Games help raise awareness about the importance of creating a convenient environment for people with disabilities, more barrierfree facilities have been installed around the country. There are  sports training centers for persons with disabilities in China. These sports facilities now are far better and more advanced, and persons with disabilities are engaging more and more in the development of the whole society, said Zhang Haidi, president of the China Disabled Persons Federation. The barrierfree facilities have been extended from the venues to other parts of the host citiesBeijing and Zhangjiakou, Hebei provinceenabling persons with disabilities better access to winter sports. The  Paralympic Winter Olympics will feature  medal events across six sports, taking place at five competition venues across three zonesdowntown Beijing, Yanqing district and Zhangjiakou. Xinhua