Organizers guarantee Games will be inclusive
2021/3/8 6:48
A container is transported on a truck at the container terminal of the Lianyungang Port in Lianyungang City, east Chinas Jiangsu Province, Jan , .  Chinas foreign trade soared by . percent on a yearly basis to . trillion yuan . billion in the first two months of the year, creating more confidence in the prospects of export growth and economic recovery for the rest of the year, officials and experts said on Sunday. They said outstanding new trade figures released by the General Administration of Customs on Sunday proved once again that Chinas manufacturing sector and its foreign trade are contributing, to a large extent, to the global supply chain and meeting the demand of consumers worldwide. Thanks in part to the growing demand for goods of recovering markets in the European Union and the United Statesrecoveries boosted by their governments fiscal stimulus measuresthere has been significant growth in Chinas exports, with those to Europe, the US and Japan increasing . percent yearonyear, said Li Kuiwen, directorgeneral of the administrations statistics and analysis department. As the worlds only major economy to grow last year, Chinas recovery in foreign trade has substantially stabilized global industrial chains and supplied a variety of products amid the pandemic, ranging from vaccines and maskproduction machinery to workfromhome electronic products for foreign consumers, said Gao Lingyun, a research fellow at the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences Institute of World Economics and Politics. The country also helped boost imports of industrial products and raw materials such as auto parts, iron ore and crude oil, Gao added. Li, the Customs official, said stayput measures advocated in many cities and industrial zones during Spring Festival helped ensure that domestic manufacturers delivered orders uninterrupted by the holiday. The encouraging trade figures are partly due to the lower base from the first two months of last year, when Chinas foreign trade was affected by COVID outbreaks, he said. But Li further explained that compared with data from  and , the  yearonyear trade growth during the twomonth period still remained up to  percent higher. The countrys exports soared . percent on a yearly basis to . trillion yuan from January to February, while its imports surged . percent yearonyear to . trillion yuan. Its trade surplus reached . billion yuan, Customs officials said. The outlook for Chinas exports, advanced by vaccine availability and stimulus policies globally, will remain positive this year, with new business models such as crossborder ecommerce emerging as a new engine of the countrys foreign trade, said Gu Xueming, a member of the th National Committee of the Chinese Peoples Political Consultative Conference and president of Beijingbased Chinese Academy of International Trade and Economic Cooperation. Chinas trade with the Association of Southeast Asian Nations reached . billion yuan in the first two months of , up . percent yearonyear, while trade with the EU rose . percent to . billion yuan, according to the General Administration of Customs. The goods trade value between China and the US grew . percent yearonyear to . billion yuan during the same period.