US ramps up vaccine rollout as January marks deadliest month since COVID outbreak
2021/3/5 10:23
People, wearing protective face masks, walk on Parisian covered passages amid the coronavirus disease COVID outbreak in France, March , .  PARIS  To contain the spread of new coronavirus variants in France, Prime Minister Jean Castex on Thursday announced weekend lockdown in more areas, tougher rules against social mixing in highrisk regions and faster vaccination rollout. The northern department of PasdeCalais will move into lockdown starting this weekend. The incidence rate there hit  cases per , inhabitants, double the national average. The number of new infections surged by  percent in the last five days. As in AlpesMaritimes and Dunkirk, people in PasdeCalais have to stay at home from  am Saturday to  pm Sunday, announced Castex at the weekly press conference on the sanitary situation. He said that three departments  HautesAlpes, Aisne and Aube  are added to the list of highalert zones, where large malls will close and maskwearing will be reinforced in all urban areas starting from Friday midnight. Local authorities will have the power to impose a ban on public gatherings on weekends in most crowded areas in these departments under reinforced surveillance, Castex said, calling on inhabitants to limit their travel as much as possible. Next weekends, even if you dont have to stay at home, limit your social interaction. We have to hold on together, said the prime minister. In one year, a lot has changed. We learned about the impact of lockdown, its social, economic, and human impact, he said, adding that another lockdown is not impossible but it is not inevitable. Viral circulation in France increased over a couple of weeks mainly due to the virus variant first spotted in Britain, which now represents over  percent of infections, said Castex. On Thursday, a further ,  people tested positive for COVID, bringing the countrys cumulative cases to over . million. The overall death toll reached , after  patients died over the past day, according to health authorities. Currently, , patients are hospitalized, , of them in intensive care  down by  and  respectively. The virus continued to circulate, but it was not rising exponentially as some experts predicted, said Castex. The fastest and most targeted vaccine rollout will allow us to get out of the tunnel, he added. To that end, France plans to inoculate  million citizens by midApril,  million by midMay and a total of  million, or twothirds of the adults, by summer. So far, ,, people have received at least the first jab, and ,, of them have got both doses, according to the prime minister. He added that vaccine deliveries will increase in the coming weeks to  million doses over the MarchApril period, compared with  million shots received during the first two months of the year. An Elabe poll released on Wednesday found that  percent of French people believed that the governments vaccination rollout is very slow. The figure is  percentage points higher than the pollsters January survey. Meanwhile, the share of respondents who want to be inoculated increased by two points to  percent, according to the poll. As the world is struggling to contain the pandemic, vaccination is underway in an increasing number of countries with the alreadyauthorized coronavirus vaccines. Meanwhile,  candidate vaccines are still being developed worldwide   of them in clinical trials  in countries including Germany, China, Russia, Britain, and the United States, according to information released by the World Health Organization on March .