Chinas overall tax on imported goods hits record low
2021/3/3 12:47
While wearing a mask in this new norm might pose just a slight inconvenience to most people, this new practice has inadvertently created another hurdle for hearing impaired people like Cai Zhengjun, who runs a design studio in Shanghai that helps imbue selfconfidence in their hearingimpaired staff while honing their creative skills. Shanghai is a fastpaced city and many locals speak so quickly that its rather difficult to read their lips, he quipped. The epidemic has made the situation even worse. Now, with people wearing masks, we cant even see their lips. Cai lost his hearing when he was just  months old, the result of a high fever and an allergic reaction to the penicillin which was prescribed to him. Having lived most of his life in near complete silence, the yearold is well aware of the emotional baggage that comes with this condition. He recalls having suffered from selfesteem issues when he was a child, and how attempting to communicate with others became a daunting affair. The LFORU studio in Shanghai. Photo by He Qichindaily.com.cn Fortunately, his parents were determined to see their son equipped with the necessary life skills needed to lead a normal life. They keep insisting on oral training so that I could speak coherently, and I hated it. It was only after many years that I realized what they were trying to do C they just wanted to make sure that I could survive in this world when they depart from it, he said. Today, Cais role has changed from a silent observer in life to a source of empowerment for his fellow hearingimpaired peers. At his art studio LFORU, which is located on North Zhongshan Road in Shanghai, only deaf individuals can be founding working behind the counter. Floral and scented candle designs by LFORU, an art studio in Shanghai established by Cai Zhengjun and his fellow friends who also suffer from hearing impairment. Photo provided to chinadaily.com.cn Besides floral and graphic designs, the studio also produces scented products, candles, leather, and an assortment of other handicrafts. There is no monthly creative meeting where Cai instructs his staff to create specific designs. Every person here is free to create whatever he or she desires. I want my colleagues to do whatever they like. I believe this is how they can produce their best work, he explained. Hearingimpaired people also have their advantages. They tend to be more focused and serious about matters, he added. Sometimes, were able to do things even better than others, but it takes a lot more effort for us because of this communication barrier.