Nation to enhance trade ties with Central, Eastern Europe
2021/3/3 9:18
Katie Ledecky celebrates setting a new world m freestyle world record in at the  Rio Olympics. If the Tokyo Games go ahead this summer, the American will attempt to win the first womens ,m freestyle gold ever awarded at the Olympics. REUTERS Legend insists medal goals remain in place despite pandemic uncertainties Fivetime Olympic gold medalist Katie Ledecky is powering through the uncertainties of the COVID pandemic, her sights still firmly set on making history at the rescheduled Tokyo Games. The US freestyle great, whose  world titles are the most of any female swimmer, adapted and adjusted along with the rest of the world in , but she isnt giving any ground when it comes to her goals in the pool. I feel very good about those goals and feel like they still are in place for this year, Ledecky said in a video conference as she prepared to travel to a swim meet this week in San Antonio, Texas, her first such trip in a year. Its another step on the road to Tokyo, where Ledecky is eyeing an ambitious program that she hopes will see her claim the first womens ,m gold medal ever awarded at the Games. Im really excited that the ,m free is in the Olympics for the first time for women and that theres parity in the schedule between the mens and womens schedules, she said. Its been a long time coming. I know the history of US womens freestyle swimmers and I know there are a lot of womens freestylers that havent had those opportunities that Ive had and didnt have the opportunity to swim the , or even other events in the Olympics, said Ledecky, who will also be targeting the ,  and  freestyles and the x free relay. So Im going to take up the opportunity and hopefully get Team USA started on the right note for that event moving forward. The odds are certainly in the worldrecord holders favor, and Ledecky said she feels well prepared despite the upheaval of Californias coronavirus lockdown last March and the continuing changes to health protocols. For three months she made do swimming in a backyard pool and lifting weights in her apartment as facilities at Stanford University were shut down. Since the middle of last June is when Stanford reopened. We have a lot of different protocols, one per lane or one per household. So I live by myself so Ive been one per lane for the past year, she said. She and her training partners are tested three times a week, and Ledecky thinks shes well prepared for whatever health and safety protocols shell have to follow both at the US trials, now scheduled for June, and at the Olympics, scheduled to start on July . Itll be a different Olympics, said Ledecky, a veteran of the  London and  Rio Games. Itll look and feel different. Im trying to learn as much as I can about the protocols that will be in place so that nothing will catch me by surprise and I can have the best performances that I can have. Vaccination hope Ledecky is hoping she and other US team members will have been vaccinated against COVID by then, but she wont jump the queue to be inoculated. I feel pretty strongly that we all have to get it when its our turn, she said. I really hope thats soon for all of us. Regardless of vaccine status, were going to have to do the exact same things, the mask wearing, the distancing, the testing, she added. Ledecky is also trying hard not to get caught up in any speculation that the Games might not happen. Coronavirus cases surged in Japan in January, when polls showed some  percent of people in the country thought the event should be canceled or postponed again. Im preparing as though the Games are on and Im trying not to think about all the speculation, Ledecky said. Its difficult to block everything out, but Im very focused. I dont want to get to Tokyo and have any regrets about my training or preparation. AFP