A quiet sanctuary where creativity speaks the loudest
2021/3/2 17:22
An employee at a Volvo car dealer, wearing a protective mask is seen in the showroom in Brussels, Belgium, May , .  Swedish carmaker Volvo Cars said on Tuesday that it plans to become a fully electric car company by . Volvo, owned by Chinas Geely, said it will phase out any car in its global portfolio with an internal combustion engine, including hybrids, by . It estimates that  percent of its global sales will be electric cars by . The  ambition is driven by strong demand for electrified cars in recent years and a firm conviction that the market for combustion engine cars is a shrinking one, said the carmaker. To remain successful, we need profitable growth. So instead of investing in a shrinking business, we choose to invest in the future C electric and online, said Volvo CEO Hakan Samuelsson. We are fully focused on becoming a leader in the fastgrowing premium electric segment. Samuelsson told China Daily that Volvo invests  percent of its revenue each year on research and development, with a primary focus on electrification. Volvo launched its first fully electric car, the XC Recharge, last year. Later on Tuesday the company would reveal its second electric car, a new model in the  series. Samuelsson told China Daily that Volvo Cars will roll out several additional electric models in coming years, including the electric XC, which is expected to hit the market in . It will built vehicles smaller than  Series on Geelys electric car platform. There is no longterm future for cars with an internal combustion engine, said Henrik Green, chief technology officer. Carmakers worldwide are pursuing zeroemission strategies to meet carbon dioxide emissions targets. Late last month, British premium marque Jaguar said it will become fully electric by . In January US automaker General Motors said it aims to have an all zeroemissions lineup by . In November , Volkswagens luxury car brand Bentley Motors said its model range will be fully electric by .