Playbooks released to help Winter Games athletes, officials
2021/10/25 20:30
The International Olympic Committee, the International Paralympic Committee and the Beijing Organizing Committee for the  Olympic and Paralympic Winter Games published the first editions of the Beijing  Playbooks on Monday. The two Playbooks, one for athletes and team officials, and one for all other stakeholders, provide comprehensive COVID guidelines that will help participants prepare for traveling to and arriving in China, fulfilling their roles at the Olympic and Paralympic Winter Games, and their departure from Beijing. Christophe Dubi, IOC Olympic Games executive director, said The Playbooks provide a game plan to help Olympic and Paralympic Games participants, and consequently the local population, stay safe and healthy during Gamestime. They have been developed jointly by the IOC, the IPC and Beijing , incorporating the very latest scientific advice and proven countermeasures implemented during the pandemic. This includes important learnings from international sports events held in recent months. He added We want everyone at the Games to be safe, thats why were asking all participants to follow these guidelines. Keeping everyone healthy will ensure the focus remains on the very fundamentals of the Olympic and Paralympic Games C the athletes and the sport. Colleen Wrenn, the IPCs chief Paralympic Games delivery officer, said The last  months in particular have proven that major sport events involving multiple stakeholders from around the world can be held safely providing everyone involved follows the COVID countermeasures outlined by organizers. With the ongoing COVID pandemic, absolutely no one involved in the Olympic and Paralympic Winter Games Beijing  can afford to be complacent. Therefore, it is critical that everyone planning to attend the Games to follow the principles of the Playbooks which are based on the latest scientific advice and key learnings from other events. Han Zirong, vicepresident and secretarygeneral of Beijing , said Beijing  welcomes athletes and all other stakeholders from around the world to China to participate in the Olympic and Paralympic Winter Games Beijing . After thorough discussion and consultation, the IOC, the IPC and Beijing  jointly developed the first editions of the Beijing  Playbooks. The Playbooks demonstrate the consensus of all parties involved. In developing the Playbooks, we made it a top priority to safeguard the safety and health of all Games participants including athletes, as well as the Chinese people, draw on the experiences from other international sports events, and the COVID policy currently in effect in China. We will work with all stakeholders on the implementation of the Playbooks and together, deliver to the world a streamlined, safe and splendid Games. The two Playbooks cover the whole journey of all Games participants, detailing the requirements for entry and the measures that will be in place within the closedloop management system. This includes further details of the key policies outlined at the recent IOC Executive Board meeting. The key principles outlined in the Playbooks are Closedloop management To allow everyone to perform their daytoday activities that are essential to their roles during the Games. A special system has been defined to keep Games participants and people in China safe by reducing unnecessary interactions. This closedloop system allows Games participants to enter China without undergoing a compulsory day quarantine, provided they are fully vaccinated, according to the Playbooks. Vaccination Vaccines are proven to reduce infection and transmission of COVID and are a key tool in enabling activities to be carried out safely. It will be mandatory to be fully vaccinated at least  days prior to departure for China, in order to be allowed in the closedloop system without quarantine. Anyone not fully vaccinated will need to quarantine for  days upon arrival in Beijing. Exceptions may be granted for athletes and team officials on a casebycase basis, based on medical reasons. Test, trace and isolate Strict protocols will be in place to identify who has the COVID virus as early as possible through testing to understand to whom the virus might have been passed through contact tracing and to use isolation and quarantine to stop the virus from spreading further. Minimize Physical Interaction COVID is mainly transmitted through small liquid particles in our breath exhaled by coughing, sneezing, talking, shouting or singing. Thats why its important to be vaccinated, minimize physical interaction, wear a mask, and avoid spaces that are enclosed, crowded or involve close contact. Hygiene The basics of good hygiene are important to keeping everyone safe C regularly and thoroughly cleaning our hands, disinfecting surfaces, avoiding touching our face, and wearing a face mask at all times. COVID liaison officers Every organization taking part in the Games will soon be asked to nominate COVID liaison officers. The CLO will support Games participants in making sure that they understand the contents of the Playbooks and the importance of complying with them. The second editions of the Playbooks are planned to be published later this year, ahead of the Olympic Winter Games, which will take place from February  to , , and the Paralympic Winter Games, which will be held from March  to , .