An unofficial survey of maskwearing in the United States
2021/3/2 7:26
A woman wears a protective face mask while carrying her dog as the global outbreak of the coronavirus disease COVID continues, in New York City on November , .  Pandemic containment described as incompetence that killed over , Chinas State Council Information Office will issue a report on human rights violations in the United States in , an official statement released on Monday said. The ,Chinesecharacter document details Washingtons incompetent pandemic containment, which has led to tragic outcomes, disordered US democracy triggering political chaos, ethnic minorities being subjected to racial discrimination, continuous social unrest threatening public security, growing polarization between rich and poor aggravating social inequality and the US trampling of international rules, resulting in humanitarian disasters. The report says that although the US population is less than  percent of the global total, the number of COVID infections in the country exceeds  percent of worldwide cases and the number of deaths accounts for nearly  percent of the global total, with over , people having lost their lives. The report said that Washington has become the biggest troublemaker undermining global security and stability. While global solidarity is much needed during the fight against the pandemic, the US insisted on pursuing a US first policy, promoting isolation and unilateralism, imposing sanctions on others and bullying international organizations as well as treating asylumseekers brutally. The publics confidence in the US political system has dropped to the lowest point in the past  years, the report said. Money politics suppressed the will of the public, making elections a oneman show of the wealthy class, it said. The report said that gun violence as well as the gun trade in the country hit a record high in , resulting in public distrust of social order. In , more than , people were killed in gun violence in the US, an average of over  people every day, the report said. On Friday,  United Nations human rights experts released a joint statement calling on the US government to adopt wideranging reforms to put an end to police violence and to vigorously address systemic racism and racial discrimination. Foreign Ministry spokesman Wang Wenbin said at a daily news conference on Monday, We hope the US will reject double standards, face up to its serious domestic human rights problems like racism and violence by law enforcement officials and take concrete measures to promote and protect human rights. Everyone in the world, regardless of ethnicity, color, gender or nationality, should have their lives cherished and respected, and their human rights should be protected, Wang said.