Beijing schools open with virus controls
2021/3/1 11:18
Students and their parents walk to school in Beijings Fengtai district on March , . Cold weather, rain and snow meant people were wearing thick clothes outdoors. All kindergarten, primary and middle school students in Beijing started classes on campus for the spring semester March , the usual starting date. .com All kindergarten, primary and middle school students in Beijing started their spring semester on campus on Monday. Schools are required to have coronavirus prevention measures in place to ensure safety. Many schools offered a special first lesson for students. Some invited college professors to give a speech others gave students safety lessons to teach them how to protect their health and avoid risks. According to schedule, colleges in Beijing will start classes in March. Some already began on Feb , and others will follow gradually. Li Yi, spokesman for the Beijing Municipal Education Commission, said that all training institutions should resume classes after securing approval from the authorities. Students walk to school to start their spring semester on campus in Beijings Haidian district on March , .  Students walk to school to start their spring semester on campus in Beijings Haidian district on March , .  Students sit for their first class of the spring semester at a school in Beijings Haidian district on March , . According to pandemic prevention and control measures, students have to wear masks in school.  Students sit for their first class on campus at a school in Beijings Haidian district on March , .  All kindergarten, primary and middle school students in Beijing started their spring semester on campus on Monday. Provided to chinadaily.com.cn All kindergarten, primary and middle school students in Beijing started their spring semester on campus on Monday. Provided to chinadaily.com.cn All kindergarten, primary and middle school students in Beijing started their spring semester on campus on Monday. Provided to chinadaily.com.cn All kindergarten, primary and middle school students in Beijing started their spring semester on campus on Monday. Provided to chinadaily.com.cn All kindergarten, primary and middle school students in Beijing started their spring semester on campus on Monday. Provided to chinadaily.com.cn All kindergarten, primary and middle school students in Beijing started their spring semester on campus on Monday. Provided to chinadaily.com.cn All kindergarten, primary and middle school students in Beijing started their spring semester on campus on Monday. Provided to chinadaily.com.cn All kindergarten, primary and middle school students in Beijing started their spring semester on campus on Monday. Provided to chinadaily.com.cn All kindergarten, primary and middle school students in Beijing started their spring semester on campus on Monday. Provided to chinadaily.com.cn All kindergarten, primary and middle school students in Beijing started their spring semester on campus on Monday. Provided to chinadaily.com.cn All kindergarten, primary and middle school students in Beijing started their spring semester on campus on Monday. Provided to chinadaily.com.cn