Horn of Africa programs offer aid amid pandemic
2021/3/1 10:13
Here are some of the most striking images from around the world over the past week. Medical workers wheel a stretcher in front of Maimonides Medical Center in the Brooklyn Borough of New York, Feb , . The United States reached the grim milestone of half a million coronavirus deaths on Feb , according to the Center for Systems Science and Engineering at Johns Hopkins University.  Bolivian President Luis Arce looks on as a medical worker administers a dose of Chinese Sinopharm COVID vaccine to a recipient in Santa Cruz, Bolivia, Feb , . Arce attended on Thursday a launching ceremony in Santa Cruz for the nationwide campaign of COVID vaccine inoculation.  Photo taken on Feb , , shows the bell tower of the Cathedral of St. Domnius on a foggy day in the city of Split, Croatias secondlargest city.  Britains Prime Minister Boris Johnson holds a COVID pandemic media briefing at  Downing Street in London, Feb , . Johnson announced that schools in England will reopen from March  as part of the roadmap to ease the current coronavirus lockdown.  Photo taken on Feb ,  shows a seethrough church, a sitespecific work entitled reading between the lines outside the town of Borgloon, Belgium. Completed in  by the Belgian architects duo Gijs Van Vaerenbergh, the project is  meters high and is made of  layers and , columns of steel.  The area in front of the Sacre Coeur Basilica is blocked by the police atop the Montmartre in Paris, Feb , . France on Wednesday confirmed , new COVID cases, the biggest oneday jump since midNovember , as worrying situation in some departments forced the authorities to impose partial lockdown to combat the virus resurgence.  Staff members from Jerusalems Biblical Zoo release a Persian fallow deer into the wild at the Jerusalem hills, Feb , .  An official displays a First Day Cover marking the issuance of a set of special stamps themed on the COVID vaccination in Jakarta, Indonesia, Feb , .  The lunar samples No  brought back by Chinas Change probe is on display at the National Museum of China in Beijing, Feb , .  Thai Prime Minister Prayut Chanocha presents two vials of Sinovac COVID vaccine at Suvarnabhumi Airport in Bangkok, Feb , . The first batch of COVID vaccines that Thailand ordered from Chinas Sinovac Biotech arrived in the capital Bangkok Wednesday, putting the country on track to kickstart its national inoculation program.  Photo taken on Feb , , shows the full moon amid red lanterns in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. The Chinese Lantern Festival fell on Feb  this year.  Students disinfect their hands with sanitizer at Diamond Academy in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, Feb , . Schools across Ethiopia have resumed classes with strict measures taken to prevent and control the COVID pandemic, such as wearing face masks, washing hands frequently and maintaining social distancing. 