UK travelers set their sights on summer sun
2021/2/26 10:28
FILE PHOTO Amazon boxes are seen stacked for delivery in the Manhattan borough of New York City, Jan , .  NEW YORKIn November, Paula Mont did something new. The yearold, who hasnt left her New Jersey senior living community in nearly a year, went shoppingonline. Mont used an iPad, equipped with a stylus to help her shaky hands, to buy a toy grand piano for her greatgranddaughter. She picked it out from more than a dozen versions of the instrument on Amazon. It is like a wow feeling. I found it! Mont said. The internet has become a crucial link to the outside world during the pandemic, one that millions of people still dont have access to. Among older adults, the lack of internet has even impeded their ability to get vaccinated. The pandemic has motivated many who have been isolated at home or unable to leave their senior communities to learn something they may have resisted until now how to buy groceries and more online. People  and older rang up an average of nearly  per month online last year, up  percent from a year earlier, according to market research firm NPD Groups Checkout Tracking. They still spend less than the average  per month by the total population, but they are the fastestgrowing group of online shoppers by age group. The biggest online spenders were people aged  to  who spent an average of  per month online last year, up  percent from the previous year, NPD said. Shopping is one of a slew of activities older people now have to do over the internet, like doctors appointments and socializing via digital video like FaceTime. Such behavior was forced by necessity older people face the biggest risk of infection, so its more dangerous for them to go out. The transition online has not always been easy. Children and senior living staff often have to help, an experience that can be both gratifying and difficult. Barbara Moran, director of social programs for Atria Senior Living where Mont lives, says one of the biggest challenges residents face with their devices is that they are used to pushing, not tapping, as if theyre using a touchtone telephone. She has to repeat tips often. I would lie if I didnt say I was frustrated sometimes, said Moran, who sits with Montmasked and glovedin the facilitys dining room. Agencies via Xinhua