UN chief calls for teamwork on key issues
2021/2/26 10:19
President of the Tokyo  Olympics Organising Committee Seiko Hashimoto R speaks to Tokyo  Vice Director General Yukihiko Nunomura L as they attend the opening remarks session of the press briefing on operation and media coverage of Tokyo  Olympic Torch Relay in Tokyo, Japan, Feb , .  TOKYOThe torch relay for the postponed Tokyo Olympics is to start in a month, a sign that the Summer Games are on track to begin in July. It was at this stage at the start of the torch relay just under a year agojust after the Olympic flame arrived from Greecethat the Olympics were postponed due to the coronavirus outbreak. Organizers on Thursday read out a list of rules regarding health measures for the , torchbearers and others who are to take part, including fans. They also cautioned that changes to the route or runners could come without much notice. No shouting, no cheering. Please cheer by clapping your hands and maintain appropriate distance in case there is overcrowding, Yukihiko Nunomura, the vice director general of the organizing committee, told a briefing. Nunomura added around  international runners had expected to take part in the relay before the postponement of the Olympics last year. They have been contacted about the details so it is difficult right now for them, he said. The torch relay will be held despite that, and going forward with that will be difficult in that respect. Organizers said government immigration policy must be observed with regards to torchbearers coming to Japan from overseas. Overseas spectators are also doubtful in attending the Games, which is due to begin on July . IOC Olympic Games executive director Christophe Dubi told reporters on Wednesday that late April might be the right time to decide whether to allow overseas spectators to attend. Torchbearers will be allowed to run without wearing a mask, but all others are required to wear one. The torch relay for the Tokyo Olympics will kick off on March  from the JVillage National Training Center in Fukushima, hit hard by an earthquake and tsunami on March ,. The flame, lit in Greeces Olympia in March, will travel  days through  municipalities across all of Japans  prefectures before it arrives at the opening ceremony at the Olympic Stadium in Tokyo. Xinhua  Agencies