COVID variants throw cold water on vaccine plans
2021/2/26 10:02
French Prime Minister Jean Castex speaks during a press conference on the governments current strategy for the ongoing COVID pandemic in Paris, France, Feb , .  PARIS  Twenty departments in France, including the Greater Paris region, are placed under reinforced surveillance due to the worsening epidemic situation, Prime Minister Jean Castex said on Thursday. In the Ilede France, HautsdeFrance, la Cote dAzur, la Moselle and MeurtheetMoselle regions, the epidemic situation and that in hospitals require the highest vigilance because the indicators are deteriorating, Castex told a weekly briefing on the coronavirus. The countrys worsthit areas report  new infections per , inhabitants, with the new virus variants making up half of the total positive tests, he said, adding that hospitals risk reaching a breaking point. If COVIDlinked figures keep surging in these zones, braking measures will be implemented from March , similar to those in force in the northern city of Dunkirk and the Mediterranean AlpesMaritimes region, where people have to stay at home from  pm Friday until  am Monday  on top of a nationwide nightly curfew during the rest of the week. Moreover, checks at airports are stepped up, shopping malls larger than , square meters that dont sell food products are shut down and wearing masks outdoors is reinforced. We will adapt to the reality and to the target to slow down the epidemic spread, Castex said. To date, the general situation does not allow us to consider easing measures. To the French premier, a weekend lockdown is the right way as authorities are able to act quickly and strongly... without impacting territories where the epidemic is receding or circulating less strongly. He added that everything must be done to delay a possible lockdown to which we have to resort when we cannot do otherwise. We have to do that wisely, at the right time, he said. According to health authorities data released on Thursday, a further , people in France were infected with COVID within a day, down from , reported on Wednesday, the highest daily tally since midNovember . To date, France has counted ,, coronavirus infections, with , lives lost to the pandemic. Castex hoped to see the end of the sanitary crisis by early April, for which he urged people to remain vigilant and continue their efforts to curb the virus spread, while vaccine rollout is ramped up. As of Feb , over . million people in France have received their first dose of a coronavirus vaccine, according to the Health Ministry. Meanwhile,  candidate vaccines are still being developed worldwide   of them in clinical trials  in countries including Germany, China, Russia, Britain and the United States, according to information released by the World Health Organization on Tuesday.