Biden Masks on the way soon
2021/2/25 0:00
The White House will probably move to send face masks directly to people in the United States as the country continues to grapple with the coronavirus pandemic, US President Joe Biden said on Tuesday. Were probably going to be sending out an awful lot of masks around the country very shortly, millions of them, Biden said during a roundtable event with frontline workers. He said the issue of masks had been turned into a political issue, which cost an awful lot of lives. The plan was originally proposed by health officials during the administration of former president Donald Trump, who blocked it. However, in one state, North Dakota, future mask mandates might be ruled out. On Monday, the states House approved a bill that would make future mask mandates illegal and sent it to the state Senate. The bills sponsor called mask mandates diabolical silliness. The North Dakota bill exemplifies one of the challenges Biden has faced during his first month in office as he has made fighting the COVID pandemic his main priority and seeks to be what he declared in his inaugural addressa healer of the divides in the US. The challenges, he said in his speech, include a nation ravaged by a pandemic, calls for racial justice and the rise of political extremism. To overcome these challengesto restore the soul and to secure the future of Americarequires more than words, Biden said. It requires that most elusive of things in a democracy unity. As his administration moves into its second month, Biden has focused on vaccinating US residents and rebooting the economy. He has proposed a . trillion COVID relief bill, which would provide  billion of additional funding to schools, payments of , to most households and  billion to expand coronavirus testing. However, Bidens efforts in fighting the pandemic to pressure states to take actions that the federal government doesnt controlsuch as keeping mask mandates in place or more restrictive actionshave had mixed results. Governors and state public health officials have said that under the Biden administration, they have more regular communication with, and access to, senior officials in the White House than they did before. I applaud the Biden administration for having a regular line of communication with the governors, said Arkansas Governor Asa Hutchinson, a Republican who attended a bipartisan meeting with Biden at the White House earlier this month. Theyve been very responsive to us and have listened to us. On the vaccination front, Biden said during the presidential transition that his goal was to administer  million doses by the end of his first  days. After taking office, he said he hoped to reach a pace of . million vaccinations a day. In recent weeks, the pace of vaccinations has increased to an average of . million a day, above the roughly  million vaccines administered each day in the last days of the Trump administration. Since taking office, Biden has signed more than  executive orders and actions, many of which reversed Trump policies. The swift action has prompted praise as well as criticism, for example from those who do not see the actions as representing the unity that Biden has called for. Many critics have also questioned how Biden, a Democrat, intends to keep his campaign promise to reach across the aisle in Congress to work with Republicans. Marsha Blackburn, a Republican US Senator from Tennessee, tweeted executive orders and actions signed in only  days time.POTUS, you cant govern with a pen and a phone. US Senator Ron Johnson, a Republican from Wisconsin, said I just wish that his actions matched the words of his inaugural in terms of being unifying and healing. Im not seeing his initial actions being that, which is disappointing. The headline on an editorial on Jan  in The New York Times advised Biden to Ease Up on the Executive Actions, Joe. It said the orders were no way to make law and urged him, instead of ruling by fiat, to legislate via the narrowly divided Congress. Congresswhere Biden served  years in the Senateis one of the biggest divides for the th president. It will control his legislative agenda, from the pandemic relief bill to an immigration plan that includes an eightyear pathway to citizenship for nearly  million undocumented immigrants. Hutchinson, the Arkansas governor, said he told Biden that the administrations proposed COVID relief package was too large and needed to be more targeted. He also urged the president to secure bipartisan support for the plan. Although Biden met with  Republicans in the White House on Feb  and listened to their proposal for a smaller pandemic bill, the president rejected it, saying the  billion being offered was not enough. The Democrats bill is on track to be passed by the House by the end of the week, and the Senate by the end of next week. But Democrats arent expecting to get a single Republican vote in the Senate for the package, so they reportedly will use a procedural maneuver known as reconciliation to fasttrack Senate passage. While Biden has focused on the pandemic relief bill, he also has moved on foreign affairs, pledging to reinvest in alliances and diplomacy and emphasizing democratic values. On Feb , in a virtual address to the Munich Security Conference, Biden said I know the past few years have strained and tested our transatlantic relationship. But the United States is determined to reengage with Europe. Before delivering his remarks, Biden met via videoconference with the leaders of the GCanada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, the United Kingdom and the USto discuss a global response to the pandemic. The session also marked the US official return to the Paris Agreement on climate change. In a joint statement following that meeting, the G vowed to work together and with others to make  a turning point for multilateralism. The G meeting touched on China as well, according to the statement. With the aim of supporting a fair and mutually beneficial global economic system for all people, we will engage with others, especially G countries, including large economies such as China, it said. aihepingchinadailyusa.com