Study reveals genetic links between human groups from Chinese mainland, Taiwan
2021/2/24 13:26
People wearing masks walk on street in Taipei, Taiwan, on March , .  FUZHOU  An analysis of sequenced genomes of ancient East Asians and presentday groups showed strong genetic links between ancient Taiwan groups and TaiKadai speakers in the Chinese mainlands southern areas and Hainan Island. The finding was published in the journal Nature on Tuesday. A group of international researchers reported genomewide data from  East Asians dating back , to , years from sites across the Chinese mainland and Taiwan, Mongolia, Russia, and Japan, and from  samples of  presentday groups from the Chinese mainland and Nepal. They found people from Taiwan , to , years ago derived about  percent ancestry from a lineage also common in modern Austronesian and TaiKadai speakers, suggesting Austronesians, including modern indigenous Taiwan groups, share the same ancestry with TaiKadai people in the mainlands southern areas and Hainan Island. Wang Chuanchao, an anthropologist at Xiamen University and coauthor of the article, said they extracted and sequenced DNA of  individuals from two Iron Age sites in Taiwan, adding that it is also the first DNA study of ancient people in Taiwan. The study shows ancient Taiwan people also derived about  percent ancestry from a northern lineage related to but different from Yellow River farmers. It explains why foxtail millet, which was domesticated in the northern part of the Chinese mainland, appeared relatively early in the Taiwan Neolithic Tapenkeng culture, Wang said. Wang noted this provides direct evidence that Austronesian speakers, who live across a wide swath of islands in Southeast Asia and the Southwest Pacific, originated on the Chinese mainland. Austronesian refers to a family of languages spoken in the area extending from Madagascar eastward through the Malay Peninsula and Archipelago to Hawaii and Easter Island and including almost all the native languages of the Pacific islands. The article was coauthored by  researchers from  institutions across the world including Xiamen University, Harvard University and Max Planck Institute for the Science of Human History.