Avian enthusiast basks in bird life
2021/2/24 9:36
A flock of gray cranes flies over the Baotou Yellow River Wetland in Baotou, Inner Mongolia autonomous region. CHINA DAILY Liu Li felt excited as he picked birds dung from ice holes at the Yellow River wetland in Baotou, Inner Mongolia autonomous region, on a day early in spring . The zoologist walked carefully on the soft ice as he approached the holes. To prevent bird flu infection, he wore a face mask and gloves as he bagged the samples, which would be dried and analyzed later. He didnt realize he had become deeply stuck in the mud until he turned around to go back. I had to throw the camera and dung aside to climb out, Liu said, recalling what he said was one of the most interesting experiences hed had during his eight years of research on wetland birds. From the dung, we can learn what vegetables the birds prefer. For example, swans like corn kernels, which can quickly provide energy to help them fly north, he said. Liu Li left and his team members observe birds at the wetland. CHINA DAILY The Baotou Yellow River Wetland is a major transfer station for birds migrating along the East AsianAustralasian Flyway. With an area of , hectares, it hosts about  kinds of birds. Liu said that by studying the birds and the food they eat, researchers can learn about their living habits and reproduction, which is helpful information for those engaged in environmental protection efforts in the Yellow River Basin. Liu, a yearold zooecology teacher at Baotou Teachers College, has brought his students to the wetland every week since  to record detailed information, and they have taken more than , photos of birds. The team stands on the highest point of the wetland and observes birds with a telescope, counting the number of birds of each species they see. In the winter of , Liu found a number of dead ducks, and he and his students collected their carcasses. Their deaths were possibly caused by pollution in the water, he said. The study of the birds reveals changes in the environment and how those changes affect creatures. Liu developed a passion for birds from his doctoral supervisor in Japan, an expert on crows. In , he returned to China and took the teaching job in Baotou to live with his family. But he was upset, because the city doesnt have many crows. Later that year, he read news about some locals who were helping swans at the wetland, which inspired him. I didnt expect that such an industrial city would have swans. I thought there was something I could do, Liu said. A bevy of swans roosts at the wetland. CHINA DAILY Lius team, with about  members, received about , yuan , in funding in  from the National Natural Science Foundation of China to study birds and environment of Yellow River wetland. The team focuses on the feeding habits of swans and cranes, including what vegetables can give them energy, how effective the vegetables are at absorbing or transferring pollutants and whether certain vegetables or microorganisms can reduce pollution and restore the wetland environment, Liu said. Years of observation have made Liu passionate about the species. It will not take long before you realize birds have the same emotions as humans. They can be happy, angry, sad and jealous, he said. Theres a certain species of birds that conduct a dance of sorts when they meet in spring to see if they are compatible, and if so, they will become mates. A bird will also pick aquatic plants as gifts for its partner in preparation for building a nest. If a third bird appears, one of the two birds will drive it away. He said many locals dont know swans, and his greatest desire is to bring more young people to the wetland and experience the beauty of nature. Zhang Jiyun, one of Lius students, said she didnt like birds when she first joined the classs field survey as a freshman, but now she looks forward to each field study. Every time I hear a chirp, Im curious what kind of bird is making it, Zhang, , said. Once, she and three classmates were walking in the wetland in a big snowfall, which made the road slippery. We wondered whether we should continue, but in the end, we saw a large group of gray cranes playing in the snow, which hit my heart, she said. Zhang Le, , a colleague of Liu, said Liu is extremely devoted to his work. One time, he didnt come back after a whole day out, so I drove to look for him, Zhang Le said. It was winter, and despite the extreme chillness, I found him squatting in reeds, observing the behavior of swans. He told me he recorded when swans got up, ate, rested and cleaned their feathers. I dont think he can sleep well if he goes without visiting the wetlands regularly.