Remain vigilant against the virus
2021/10/22 15:21
The logo of the United Nations is seen on the outside of the UN headquarters in New York, Sept , .  I. The founding of the United Nations was a milestone in humanitys pursuit of peace and development. As a founding member, China was the first to put its signature on the UN Charter. On  October , the UN General Assembly at its th Session adopted Resolution  with an overwhelming majority to restore all the rights of the Peoples Republic of China and to recognize the representatives of the Government the Peoples Republic of China as the only legitimate representatives of China to the United Nations. This was a victory for justice and fairness in the world, and a victory for the purposes and principles of the UN Charter. Since then, the Chinese people, which accounted for nearly onefourth of the world population, have had its true representatives in the UN. The UN has become more universal, representative and authoritative. The commitment of the international community to the oneChina principle has been significantly consolidated and enhanced. And the force for world peace and development has grown stronger than ever before. Over the past  years, Chinas cooperation with the UN has kept expanding and deepening. UN agencies have set up offices in China, and conducted fruitful cooperation in a wide range of areas including economic development, poverty alleviation, health care, food security and environmental protection. II. The year  marks the th anniversary of the restoration of the lawful seat of the Peoples Republic of China in the UN. These five decades have witnessed Chinas practice of multilateralism, its full participation in and support for the cause of the UN, and its continuous contributions to world peace and development. . Over the past  years, China has firmly upheld world peace and security. Holding high the banner of peace, development and winwin cooperation, China has been committed to an objective and just position, to resolving differences through dialogue and consultation, and to the principle of noninterference in each others internal affairs. China firmly opposes the willful threat or use of force in international affairs. It has taken an active part in the political resolution of major regional hotspots such as the Korean Peninsula nuclear issue, the Iranian nuclear issue, Afghanistan, Myanmar, Palestine and Israel, Syria, Libya, Sudan and South Sudan. It has explored and practiced solutions with distinctive Chinese features to global and regional hotspot issues. It has endeavored to safeguard the authority and solidarity of the Security Council, actively supported UNs good offices as mandated and its coordination and cooperation with regional and subregional organizations, and contributed to world peace and security. Since , China has dispatched over , peacekeepers to nearly  UN peacekeeping missions. It is the second largest funding contributor to UN peacekeeping operations and an important troop provider, contributing more peacekeepers than any other permanent members of the Security Council. More than , Chinese peacekeepers are now on duty in eight mission areas. China has set up an ,strong standby force and a member permanent police squad for UN peacekeeping missions. This has put China ahead of all other UN troops providers in terms of the size of standby forces and the variety of contingents. China has facilitated the Security Councils adoption of Resolution  on the safety and security of peacekeepers, and initiated the launch of the Group of Friends on the Safety and Security of UN Peacekeepers, contributing Chinas wisdom to the reform and improvement of peacekeeping missions. China has taken an active part in international arms control and disarmament. It has joined more than  international arms control treaties and mechanisms including the Treaty on the NonProliferation of Nuclear Weapons NPT, the Convention on the Prohibition of the Development, Production and Stockpiling of Bacteriological Biological and Toxin Weapons and on their Destruction BWC, and the Convention on the Prohibition of the Development, Production, Stockpiling and Use of Chemical Weapons and on Their Destruction CWC, and has constructively participated in relevant international conferences and mechanisms. China has timely declared its implementation of relevant treaties, kept improving its domestic legal structure and measures to ensure sound implementation, and enhanced capacity building of its national implementation authorities. President Xi Jinping attended the Nuclear Security Summit in  and in , and proposed to follow a sensible, coordinated and balanced approach to nuclear security, and build a global nuclear security architecture featuring fairness and winwin cooperation. China has played a constructive part in the deliberation and negotiation of the UN and relevant international organizations on arms control and disarmament. It has taken the initiative to offer its proposals and solutions including nofirstuse of nuclear weapon, and promoted the establishment of a verification regime under the BWC, making important contributions to world peace and security as well as to global strategic stability. China has taken an active part in global cooperation to address nontraditional security threats. It supports UNs leading role in the global fight against terrorism and the counterterrorism resolutions adopted by the Security Council. It has vigorously promoted the full implementation of the UN Global CounterTerrorism Strategy. China has all along supported the UN in playing a leading role in global governance on cyberspace and has taken a constructive part in the UN Openended Working Group and the Group of Governmental Experts on Developments in the Field of Information and Telecommunications in the Context of International Security. It has initiated with other members of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization SCO the International Code of Conduct for Information Security, the worlds first systematic document on the international code of conduct in cyberspace, and facilitated negotiations on a Comprehensive International Convention on Countering the Use of Information and Communications Technologies for Criminal Purposes. In , China submitted to the UN General Assembly the Global Initiative on Data Security, providing a blueprint for global rules on data security. In , China submitted to the UN General Assembly the Tianjin Biosecurity Guidelines for Codes of Conduct for Scientists, making new contributions to lowering biosecurity risks and advancing the wellbeing for humanity with biological sciences. . Over the past  years, China has made vigorous efforts to promote global development. Through unremitting efforts, China has realized the first centenary goal of building a moderately prosperous society in all respects and brought about a historic resolution to the problem of absolute poverty in China. China has met the poverty eradication target of the  Agenda for Sustainable Development ten years ahead of schedule. This is a miracle in the human history of reducing poverty, and an enormous contribution to global poverty reduction and sustainable development endeavors. China attaches great importance to the implementation of the  Agenda for Sustainable Development. It was among the first to publish the National Plan and three Progress Reports on the implementation of the Agenda, and has achieved early harvests in many areas. China has taken an active part in international poverty reduction cooperation, and facilitated the adoption of resolutions on rural poverty eradication at the UN General Assembly for three consecutive years. China has published a selection of poverty reduction cases in a book titled Eradication of Poverty Chinas Practices. It has consistently increased input in international poverty reduction cooperation, and has fully implemented the  poverty reduction projects announced by President Xi Jinping and other major, practical steps to support fellow developing countries. Food security is critical to human survival. It is also an important part of the  Agenda for Sustainable Development. China is actively involved in international agricultural cooperation, and has provided support to fellow developing countries within the SouthSouth cooperation framework to the best of its ability. It has worked to promote international food and agriculture governance as well as global food security. In , President Xi Jinping put forward the Belt and Road Initiative BRI. The BRI follows the principle of extensive consultation, joint contribution and shared benefits, the philosophy of open, green and clean cooperation, and a highstandard, peoplecentered and sustainable approach. With connectivity as its main focus, Belt and Road cooperation aims to promote policy, infrastructure, trade, financial and peopletopeople connectivity, and to contribute Chinas wisdom and solutions for better global governance system, greater development worldwide, and the building of a community with a shared future for mankind. To date,  countries and  international organizations including  UN agencies have signed Belt and Road cooperation documents with China. A large number of cooperation projects have been delivered, which have enhanced the connectivity between countries and regions and given a strong boost to economic and social development and peoples livelihood in relevant countries and regions. Belt and Road cooperation has demonstrated strong resilience and dynamism despite the COVID pandemic and has played an important role in helping countries fight the coronavirus, stabilize the economy and ensure peoples livelihood. The participants have worked actively to build a Silk Road of health, green and digital development, and foster new areas of cooperation. Such efforts have opened up new space for economic and social recovery and sustainable development, and provided strong support for the international community to implement the  Agenda for Sustainable Development. President Xi Jinping proposed the Global Development Initiative at the General Debate of the th Session of the UN General Assembly, with a view to speeding up the implementation of the UN  Agenda for Sustainable Development by the international community and achieving more robust, greener and more balanced global development. This Initiative embraces the peoplecentered core concept, takes the betterment of peoples wellbeing and realization of their wellrounded development as the starting point and ultimate goal, and endeavors to meet the aspirations of all nations for a better life. It focuses on development as the master key to addressing all problems, and strives to solve difficult issues of development and create more opportunities for development, leaving no countries and no individuals behind. This Initiative follows the guidelines of practical cooperation, responds to the dynamics and urgent needs of global development, and has identified priority areas including poverty alleviation, food security, COVID and vaccines, financing for development, climate change and green development, industrialization, digital economy, and connectivity. It has put forward cooperation proposals and plans to translate development consensus into pragmatic actions. It is an important public good and cooperation platform that China provides to the international community. China has worked tirelessly to advance international cooperation on climate change. During the negotiations on the Paris Agreement in , China called on all parties to work in the same direction and build consensus, making an important contribution to the conclusion of the Agreement as scheduled. At the General Debate of the th Session of the UN General Assembly in September , President Xi Jinping announced Chinas commitment to strive to peak carbon dioxide emissions before  and achieve carbon neutrality before . China has committed to move from carbon peak to carbon neutrality in a much shorter time span than what might take the developed countries, which requires extraordinarily hard efforts. China has accepted the Kigali Amendment to the Montreal Protocol, and tightened regulations over noncarbon dioxide emissions, and its national carbon market has started trading. China has accelerated the transition toward clean and lowcarbon energy. In , Chinas nonfossil energy accounted for . percent of its primary energy consumption, reaching the world average, and the proportion of coal consumption lowered to . percent. China will strictly control coalfired power generation projects, strictly limit the increase in coal consumption over the th FiveYear Plan period, and phase it down in the th FiveYear Plan period. China has given priority to developing nonfossil energy, and remained the worlds number one in terms of the installed capacity of hydropower, wind power, photovoltaic power and nuclear power plants under construction. By the end of , Chinas installed capacity of clean energy accounted for nearly half of the total installed capacity. China has vigorously advanced the ultralow emissions and energysaving renovation of coalfired power generating units. Over  million kilowatts of outdated coalfired power generating units were closed. The average coal consumption for power supply from thermal power plants dropped to .gkWh. China has built the worlds largest clean coal power supply system. President Xi Jinping solemnly announced, in his address at the General Debate of the th Session of the UN General Assembly, that China will step up support for other developing countries in developing green and lowcarbon energy, and will not build new coalfired power projects abroad. China attaches great importance to protecting biological diversity. It has firmly promoted international cooperation and exchanges in this field, engaged deeply in the governance process of the Convention on Biological Diversity CBD, and strictly fulfilled its treaty obligations to advance global governance on biodiversity. China is an important participant in, a contributor to, and a pacesetter for the multilateral process on biodiversity. President Xi Jinping made an important speech at the  UN Summit on Biodiversity. He made a fourpoint proposal on global environmental governance, namely, adhering to ecological civilization, upholding multilateralism, continuing with green development, and heightening the sense of responsibility. He also shared Chinas experience of biodiversity governance and contribution to global environmental governance. From  to  October , the first part of the th Meeting of the Conference of Parties to the Convention on Biological Diversity was held in Kunming. President Xi Jinping delivered a keynote speech and put forward four propositions taking the development of ecological civilization as the guide to coordinate the relationship between man and Nature letting green transition drive the efforts to facilitate global sustainable development concentrating on bettering peoples wellbeing to promote social equity and justice and taking international law as the basis to uphold a fair and equitable international governance system. These represent Chinas proposals to highquality development of humanity, and have injected fresh impetus into global biodiversity governance. China is committed to advancing sustainable transport and connectivity in the world. From  to  October , the Second UN Global Sustainable Transport Conference was held in Beijing. President Xi Jinping delivered a keynote speech and made five propositions upholding open interplay and enhancing connectivity upholding common development and promoting fairness and inclusiveness upholding an innovationdriven approach and creating more drivers for development upholding ecological conservation as a priority and pursuing green and lowcarbon development and upholding multilateralism and improving global governance. This is a contribution of Chinas wisdom to advancing sustainable transport and achieving sustainable development. The Conference released the Beijing Statement, which encourages countries to enhance cooperation, capacity building and knowledge exchange in the field of sustainable transport, accelerate sustainable transport transformation, contribute to the postpandemic green recovery, and foster more new drivers for the implementation of the  Agenda for Sustainable Development. . Over the past  years, China has worked steadily to advance international rule of law. As a member of nearly all universal intergovernmental organizations and a signatory to over  international conventions and amendments, China has been fulfilling its treaty obligations in good faith, honoring its international commitments, and firmly upholding the international order underpinned by international law. China has firmly supported developing countries efforts to safeguard their own maritime rights and interests. It has played an important role in the final conclusion of the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea. China has signed and ratified the Convention and has been implementing it. China has taken an active part in the negotiation processes for multiple followup agreements. China has actively facilitated negotiations and formulation of international rules in such emerging areas as cyber, deep sea, polar regions Arctic and Antarctic, outer space and anticorruption. China has actively participated in negotiations on the international agreement on marine biodiversity beyond areas of national jurisdiction BBNJ, advocated a sound balance between marine conservation and sustainable use, and firmly supported the legitimate demands of developing countries. China has actively participated in the development of Regulations on Exploitation of Mineral Resources in the Area, and worked for the formulation of an equitable, reasonable, and balanced mining code in the Area. China has played a constructive role in the development of multiple outer space rules, including on the prevention of an arms race in the outer space, the development and use of space resources, and the longterm sustainability of outer space activities, and has worked with various parties to uphold the global governance system of the outer space based on international law. China has advocated formulating an international convention on countering cybercrime under the UN framework, and has been an initiator, supporter and promoter of the UN Intergovernmental Expert Group on Cybercrime. China has actively facilitated the UN General Assemblys adoption of a resolution to launch the negotiation process for a global convention on countering cybercrime, which is the first UNled international convention on cybercrime. China has been deeply involved in negotiations on the United Nations Convention Against Corruption, firmly upheld the Conventions status as the main channel of international anticorruption cooperation, and actively participated in the Conferences of the State Parties and relevant working group meetings. China has earnestly fulfilled its obligations under the Convention and attached high importance to the review of implementation. China has taken an active part in the special session of the General Assembly against corruption, and expounded on its proposals for international cooperation against corruption, with a view to fostering a more just and equitable international anticorruption governance system. China is an important party to and a faithful practitioner of the United Nations Convention against Transnational Organized Crime. It is committed to the full and effective implementation of the Convention, and to resolutely and forcefully combating transnational organized crime by improving domestic legislation, conducting various international cooperation and stepping up technical and capacity building assistance to other developing countries. China has firmly supported the work of UN judicial institutions. It has actively participated in international judicial activities, and firmly upheld important principles of international law such as sovereignty and territorial integrity. . Over the past  years, China has fully supported the UN in playing a central role in international affairs. The UN is a banner of multilateralism. The UN Charter has laid down the cornerstone of the modern international order and established the basic norms of contemporary international relations. China firmly maintains that there is only one system in the world, i.e., the UNcentered international system only one order, i.e., the international order based on international law and only one set of rules, i.e., the basic norms of international relations underpinned by the purposes and principles of the UN Charter. China has always held high the banner of multilateralism and practiced true multilateralism. China believes that international affairs should be addressed through consultation by all, and that the future of the world should be decided by all countries together. China firmly opposes unilateralism, protectionism and bullying acts, and firmly rejects pseudomultilateralism in such disguises as group politics and small circles. China is committed to making the global governance system more just and equitable. China has taken an active part in the work of the UN in all areas, and urged the UN to focus on the concerns and needs of developing countries. In September , when attending the summits marking the th anniversary of the UN, President Xi Jinping announced Chinas decision to establish a ChinaUN Peace and Development Fund. To date, China has provided US million to the fund and launched  cooperation projects, giving support to UNs work on peace and development. In September , during the highlevel meetings marking the th anniversary of the UN, President Xi Jinping announced that China would provide another US million to the UN COVID Global Humanitarian Response Plan, provide US million to the ChinaFAO SouthSouth Cooperation Trust Fund Phase III, extend the ChinaUN Peace and Development Fund by five years after it expires in , and actively support the UN in setting up the UN Global Geospatial Knowledge and Innovation Center and an International Research Center of Big Data for Sustainable Development Goals in China. These are part of Chinas new contribution to the international efforts to defeat the coronavirus, restart the economy, and accelerate the implementation of the  Agenda for Sustainable Development. China has always advocated consultation, cooperation and shared benefits in global governance, and adopted a Member Statesled and actionoriented approach to improve the global governance system. The aim is to make the system better reflect the changing international landscape and the aspirations and interests of the majority of countries, especially emerging markets and developing countries, and to tackle global challenges more effectively. China supports the UN in advancing with the times and better coordinating national efforts against global challenges through reform in order to better meet the expectation of the international community. . Over the past  years, China has been actively promoting and protecting human rights. China embraces a human rights philosophy that centers on the people, sees the rights to subsistence and development as the primary basic human rights, takes systematic steps to advance the economic, political, social, cultural and environmental rights of all people, and strives to uphold social fairness and justice and promote the allround human development. Under the leadership of the Communist Party of China, it has successfully blazed a path of human rights development that suits Chinas national reality and needs and has the wholehearted support of the Chinese people. Chinas achievements in advancing human rights are recognized by the whole world. China has been an active participant, builder and contributor for the international human rights cause. It has joined or ratified  international human rights instruments, including six core human rights conventions. It has played a constructive role in the formulation of such important documents as the Declaration on the Right to Development and the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action. China is deeply involved in the work of multilateral human rights mechanisms, and has been elected to the UN Human Rights Council five times. China advocates abiding by the purposes and principles of the UN Charter and the basic norms of international relations, upholds the principles of impartiality, objectivity and nonselectiveness, and attaches equal importance to and systematically advances all types of human rights. China has facilitated the adoption of Human Rights Council resolutions on the contribution of development to the enjoyment of all human rights, promoting mutually beneficial cooperation in the field of human rights and negative impact of the legacies of colonialism on the enjoyment of human rights, and spoken on behalf of developing countries on many occasions on realizing the right to development, promoting human rights through poverty alleviation, promoting international human rights cooperation and fair and more equitable global distribution of vaccines. Through these efforts, China has contributed its wisdom and strength to global human rights governance. Moreover, China has established human rights dialogue or consultation mechanisms with more than  countries and regional organizations, and stands committed to carrying out human rights exchange and cooperation on the basis of equality and mutual respect. . Over the past  years, China has vigorously advanced development and cooperation on social affairs. China has taken an active part in the UNs work in such fields as education, science, culture, sports, health, women and youth. Through multitiered and diverse forms of cooperation, China has contributed to the exchanges and mutual learning among civilizations, and the allround development and progress of humanity. China has always adhered to the basic state policy of gender equality. It has established a legal framework consisting of over  laws and regulations to fully safeguard the rights and interests of women. Women account for half of the population lifted out of poverty in China, and take up over  percent of jobs in the country. Gender equality is basically realized throughout compulsory education years. China has actively shared its successful experience in the development of women affairs. It successfully hosted the Fourth World Conference on Women in , during which the Beijing Declaration and Platform for Action was adopted. In , President Xi Jinping chaired the Global Leaders Meeting on Gender Equality and Womens Empowerment, and delivered an important statement at the  Highlevel Meeting on the th Anniversary of the Fourth World Conference on Women at the UN General Assembly, lending a new impetus into the allround development of women and the global cooperation on women affairs. China has long been actively committed to cooperation on education with the UN and the UN Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization UNESCO. The UNESCO Prize for Girls and Womens Education, jointly established by China and UNESCO, honors outstanding contributions made by individuals, institutions and organizations to advance girls and womens education, and six consecutive editions have been hosted. As the only UNESCO Prize in girls and womens education, it has become a fine example of practical cooperation between China and UNESCO. China also launched with UNESCO the UNESCOChina FundsInTrust CFIT in , and has since made annual contributions of US million to earnestly support African countries in building greater capacity of teacher training and narrow the education gap in Africa. When COVID caused massive school closures around the world and dealt a heavy blow to global education, China supported the UN in advancing digital education, and catalyzed international communitys exploration of flexible and hybrid learning during the pandemic to help ensure equal opportunity in education and inclusive education for all, and strive to attain the goals for education in the  Agenda for Sustainable Development. Sport is a symbol of social development and human progress, and the Olympic spirit represents peoples shared aspiration that transcends national boundaries. The  Agenda for Sustainable Development explicitly identifies sport as an important enabler of sustainable development and recognizes its growing contribution to the realization of development and peace. China attaches great importance to developing sport, and actively supports and participates in the Olympic Movement. Over the past  years, China has hosted multiple major international multisport events including the Olympic Games, the Paralympic Games, the Youth Olympic Games, and the Asian Games. It has made vigorous efforts to popularize the Olympic Movement and contributed its share to world Olympic Movement. Beijing will be hosting the th Olympic Winter Games from  to  February  and the th Paralympic Winter Games from  to  March . That will make Beijing the worlds first city to host both the Summer and Winter Olympics. Following a green, inclusive, open and clean approach, China is able and confident to present a streamlined, safe and splendid Olympic Games, which welcomes the participation of all parties. China will work with other countries to uphold the purposes of the Olympic Charter, promote the Olympic spirit, give full play to the positive role of sport in promoting world peace, the development of countries and friendship among the people, jointly advance the sound development of sport in the world, champion together as enshrined in the new Olympic motto, and achieve the goal of Together for a Shared Future. China will submit to the th session of the UN General Assembly a draft resolution for the observance of the Olympic Truce, and looks forward to receiving active support from other Member States. China has actively participated in youthrelated international cooperation and engaged in wideranging, youthrelated interactions with other countries and international organizations. As an active participant in the ECOSOC Youth Forum and the UNESCO Youth Forum, China has shared with other parties its experience and practices in enhancing youth education and implementing the UN Youth Strategy in an effort to facilitate the development of global youth programs. China actively supports young people from all countries in coming to China for study and exchanges, and has established a ChinaAfrica innovation cooperation center to facilitate cooperation on innovation and entrepreneurship among the younger generation, held young talents training programs for the Arab League, and implemented the ChinaLAC Scientist Exchange Program. . Over the past  years, China has made continuous contribution to improving healthcare for mankind. Actively participating in global health development, China has engaged in multitiered health exchanges and cooperation through multiple channels. It has provided robust international assistance on health, and has been actively involved in major international health initiatives, playing an important role in helping recipient countries with disaster response and healthcare development. Infectious diseases pose a serious threat to human health, and represent a common challenge to the development of humanity. Following a lawbased and sciencebased approach, China has implemented a succession of fiveyear plans on HIVAIDS prevention and treatment. The quality of life of people affected by HIVAIDS has been further improved, and social discrimination further reduced. AIDS epidemic has been kept at a low prevalence level. Thanks to years of efforts, China was officially awarded a malariafree certification by the World Health Organization WHO in . China closely follows the Ebola epidemic in Africa and responds actively to the call of African countries. It was among the first to deliver a large amount of medical aids to the Ebolaaffected countries and their neighbors, and sent a large number of disease control experts and medical professionals to work wi