Fauci says US political divisions contributed to , dead from COVID
2021/2/23 10:03
Dr. Anthony Fauci addresses the daily press briefing at the White House in Washington, Jan , .  CHICAGO  Dr. Anthony Fauci, top infectious disease expert of the US, said political divisiveness contributed significantly to the stunning US COVID death toll, which on Monday surpassed , lives lost. The country had recorded more than  million COVID cases and , fatalities as of Monday afternoon, according to a Reuters tally of public health data. In an interview with Reuters, Fauci on Monday said the pandemic arrived in the United States as the country was riven by political divisions in which wearing a mask became a political statement rather than a public health measure. Even under the best of circumstances, this would have been a very serious problem, Fauci said, noting that despite strong adherence to public health measures, countries such as Germany and the UK struggled with the virus. However, that does not explain how a rich and sophisticated country can have the most percentage of deaths and be the hardesthit country in the world, said Fauci, director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases and a top adviser to President Joe Biden. That I believe should not have happened. Lila Blanks holds the casket of her husband, Gregory Blanks, , who died of the coronavirus disease COVID, ahead of his funeral in San Felipe, Texas, US, Jan , .  While the United States has just about  percent of the global population, it has recorded nearly  percent of all COVID deaths. This is the worst thing thats happened to this country with regard to the health of the nation in over  years, Fauci said, adding that decades from now, people will be talking about that horrible year of , and maybe . For most of , Fauci served on then President Donald Trumps White House Coronavirus Task Force, a job that often put him at odds with the president, who sought to downplay the severity of pandemic despite contracting COVID himself, and refused to issue a national mask mandate. Trump at times even attacked Faucis credibility, undermining his public health messaging. The nations failure cannot all be laid at the feet of Donald Trump, Fauci said. But the lack of involvement at the very top of the leadership in trying to do everything that was sciencebased was clearly detrimental to the effort. His personal low point came when several states and cities disregarded the Task Forces phased recommendations for how to safely reopen the country after spring lockdowns. He called that disregard by several governors and mayors incomprehensible to me when you could see right in front of your eyes what was happening. When the American spirit is so divided, that really, really made me sad, he said. Fauci said the emergence of more contagious variants of the coronavirus, especially ones from South Africa and Brazil that have been shown to reduce the immunity from natural infections and vaccines, have made it challenging to predict when the nation will be able to put the pandemic behind it. Fauci and Biden have said the United States should return to something approaching prepandemic normal life around Christmas. That could change, he cautioned. The variants also change the equation when it comes to herd immunity, in which a population becomes protected from infection because of high levels of immunity from vaccines or infections. Asked whether that is still achievable, Fauci said, I think we can get herd immunity at least against getting sick. Reuters