Worlds top  most admired companies
2021/2/23 6:40
Apple takes the crown as the most admired company in the world for the th straight year, followed by Amazon and Microsoft, according to a recent report by Fortune. Companies that became even more essential during the COVID pandemic were among the biggest movers, Fortune said. Videostreaming giant Netflix returned to the top  in Fortunes annual ranking of corporate reputation, which is based on a poll of some , corporate executives, directors and analysts. Walmart No  and Target No  earned their highest rankings since  and , respectively. Chipmaker Nvidia, medical supplier Abbott Laboratories and fintech pioneer PayPal each made their top  debut. Lets take a look at the worlds top  most admired companies. No  Costco Wholesale Customers queue to enter a Costco store in Chingford, Britain, March , .  No  Netflix A smartphone with the Netflix logo lies in front of displayed Streaming service words in this illustration taken March , .  No  JPMorgan Chase A sign outside the headquarters of JP Morgan Chase  Co in New York.  No  Alphabet Letters spell the world Alphabet as they are seen on a computer screen with a Google search page in this photo illustration taken in Paris, France.  No  Berkshire Hathaway Berkshire Hathaway Chairman Warren Buffett walks through an exhibit hall as shareholders gather to hear from the billionaire investor at Berkshire Hathaway Incs annual shareholder meeting in Omaha, Nebraska, US, May , .  No  Starbucks A man wearing a protective mask uses a phone at a Starbucks cafe inside the Indonesia Stock Exchange building, in Jakarta, Indonesia, Sept , .  No  Walt Disney Disney character Mickey Mouse is seen on a clock at the entrance of Disneyland Paris, in France, July , .  No  Microsoft People walk past a Microsoft store in the Manhattan borough of New York City, New York, January , .  No  Amazon Amazon boxes are seen stacked for delivery in the Manhattan borough of New York City.  No  Apple A man stands in front of a wall of iPhones cases in the new Apple flagship store on its opening day in Sanlitun in Beijing, July , . 