US deaths at brink of K, confirming viruss tragic reach
2021/2/23 4:35
Margie Collins R receives the PfizerBioNTech vaccine against coronavirus disease COVID from Walgreens healthcare professional Ghassan Ayyad L at the Victor Walchirk Apartments in Evanston, Illinois, US February , .  For weeks after Cindy Pollock began planting tiny flags across her yard  one for each of the more than , Idahoans killed by COVID  the toll was mostly a number. Until two women she had never met rang her doorbell in tears, seeking a place to mourn the husband and father they had just lost. Then Pollock knew her tribute, however heartfelt, would never begin to convey the grief of a pandemic that has now claimed nearly , lives in the U.S. and counting. I just wanted to hug them, she said. Because that was all I could do. After a year that has darkened doorways across the U.S., the pandemic is poised to surpass a milestone that once seemed unimaginable, a reminder of the viruss reach into all corners of the country and communities of every size and makeup. Its very hard for me to imagine an American who doesnt know someone who has died or have a family member who has died, said Ali Mokdad, a professor of health metrics at the University of Washington in Seattle. We havent really fully understood how bad it is, how devastating it is, for all of us. Experts warn that over , more deaths are likely in the next few months, despite a massive campaign to vaccinate people. Meanwhile, the nations trauma continues to accrue in a way unparalleled in recent American life, said Donna Schuurman of the Dougy Center for Grieving Children  Families in Portland, Oregon. At other moments of epic loss, like the  terrorist attacks, Americans have pulled together to confront crisis and console survivors. But this time, the nation is deeply divided. Staggering numbers of families are dealing with death, serious illness and financial hardship. And many are left to cope in isolation, unable even to hold funerals. In a way, were all grieving, said Schuurman, who has counseled the families of those killed in terrorist attacks, natural disasters and school shootings. In recent weeks, virus deaths have fallen from more than , reported on some days in January to an average of fewer than , per day. Still, at almost half a million, the toll recorded by Johns Hopkins University is already greater than the population of Miami or Kansas City, Missouri. It is roughly equal to the number of Americans killed in World War II, the Korean War and the Vietnam War combined. It is akin to a  every day for nearly six months. The toll, accounting for  in  deaths reported worldwide, has far exceeded early projections, which assumed that federal and state governments would marshal a comprehensive and sustained response and individual Americans would heed warnings. Instead, a push to reopen the economy last spring and the refusal by many to maintain social distancing and wear face masks fueled the spread. The figures alone do not come close to capturing the heartbreak. I never once doubted that he was not going to make it. ... I so believed in him and my faith, said Nancy Espinoza, whose husband, Antonio, was hospitalized with COVID last month. The couple from Riverside County, California, had been together since high school. They pursued parallel nursing careers and started a family. Then, on Jan. , Nancy was called to Antonios bedside just before his heart beat its last. He was  and left behind a yearold son. Today its us. And tomorrow it could be anybody, Nancy Espinoza said. By late last fall,  percent of Americans reported knowing someone who had died of COVID or had been hospitalized with it, according to a Pew Research Center poll. The grieving was even more widespread among Black Americans, Hispanics and other minorities. Deaths have nearly doubled since then, with the scourge spreading far beyond the Northeast and Northwest metropolitan areas slammed by the virus last spring and the Sun Belt cities hit hard last summer. In some places, the seriousness of the threat was slow to sink in. When a beloved professor at a community college in Petoskey, Michigan, died last spring, residents mourned, but many remained doubtful of the threats severity, Mayor John Murphy said. That changed over the summer after a local family hosted a party in a barn. Of the  who attended,  became infected. Three died, he said. I think at a distance people felt This isnt going to get me, Murphy said. But over time, the attitude has totally changed from Not me. Not our area. Im not old enough, to where it became the real deal. For Anthony Hernandez, whose EmmersonBartlett Memorial Chapel in Redlands, California, has been overwhelmed handling burial of COVID victims, the most difficult conversations have been the ones without answers, as he sought to comfort mothers, fathers and children who lost loved ones. His chapel, which arranges  to  services in an ordinary month, handled  in January. He had to explain to some families that they would need to wait weeks for a burial. At one point, we had every gurney, every dressing table, every embalming table had somebody on it, he said. In Boise, Idaho, Pollock started the memorial in her yard last fall to counter what she saw as widespread denial of the threat. When deaths spiked in December, she was planting  to  new flags at a time. But her frustration has been eased somewhat by those who slow or stop to pay respect or to mourn. I think that is part of what I was wanting, to get people talking, she said, Not just like, Look at how many flags are in the yard today compared to last month, but trying to help people who have lost loved ones talk to other people. Associated Press video journalist Eugene Garcia contributed to this story.