The world in photos Feb
2021/2/22 10:55
Here are some of the most striking images from around the world over the past week. French President Emmanuel Macron attends a videoconference meeting with US President Joe Biden and German Chancellor Angela Merkel, ahead of  Munich Security Conference at the Elysee palace in Paris, amid the COVID outbreak, Feb , . The US formally returned to the Paris Accord.  An airplane flies over a hotel near Heathrow Airport in London, Feb , . From Monday, all British and Irish citizens and British residents who arrive in England after being in the red list of more than  highrisk countries now have to selfisolate in hotels. The red list countries include South Africa, Portugal and South American nations.  People with facial masks dress up during the German carnival season amid COVID pandemic in Dusseldorf, Germany, Feb , .  Slovak Prime Minister Igor Matovic, European Council President Charles Michel, Polish Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban and Czech Prime Minister Andrej Babis from left to right attend a press conference after the Visegrad Group summit in Krakow, Poland, on Feb , . The prime ministers of Poland, Hungary, the Czech Republic and Slovakia met in Krakow on Wednesday to discuss the COVID pandemic and to mark the th anniversary of the Visegrad Group cooperation framework.  Students study during a craft class at Kiev Gymnasium of Oriental Languages No  in Kiev, Ukraine, Feb , . In celebration of the Chinese Lunar New Year, the school held activities to help students learn about Chinese culture. Photo Xinhua A girl is pictured at a camp for internally displaced people in Marib, Yemen, Feb , .  A langur is seen inside a cage after being rescued in Surabaya, East Java, Indonesia, Feb , . Indonesias East Java provincial police and the local natural resources conservation center have thwarted the sale of  protected animals, a police officer has said. The police seized  Moluccan cockatoos, one crested hawkeagle, and eight East Javan langurs, the East Java provincial polices spokesman Senior Commissioner Gatot Repli Handoko said in a press statement in the provinces capital of Surabaya on Wednesday.  This image made available by NASA shows an illustration of NASAs Perseverance rover landing safely on Mars. NASAs Perseverance rover touched down safely on Mars on Feb , , kicking off the agencys ninth mission on the Red Planet. JPLCaltech People refill propane tanks at a propane gas station after winter weather caused electricity blackouts in Houston, Texas, on Feb , . Winter storm Uri brought severe temperature drops causing a catastrophic failure of the power grid in Texas. About two million people are without electricity throughout Houston.  Incoming World Trade Organization President Ngozi OkonjoIweala speaks during an interview with Reuters in Potomac, Maryland, US, Feb , .  Workers unload COVID vaccines donated by China at Robert Mugabe International Airport in Harare, Zimbabwe, on Feb , . The vaccines arrived on early Monday morning. The , doses of Sinopharm vaccines are the first batch that Zimbabwe has received as it steps up efforts to curb the spread of the COVID pandemic. 