The world in photos Feb
2021/2/22 10:55
A woman hands out food at a Los Angeles Food Bank distribution, as the COVID continues, in Los Angeles, California, Feb , .  Two of the US most prominent states  California and Florida  have taken vastly different approaches to addressing the COVID pandemic. California has imposed stringent lockdowns, while Florida has reveled in being as open as possible. Both approaches have resulted in basically the same outcome, proportional to each states population. Because of their states national stature, the two governors  Democrat Gavin Newsom in California and Republican Ron DeSantis in Florida  are closely watched in the politics of pandemic. Newsom, , is facing a recall election, as a petition to put that question to voters already has exceeded the required . million signatures, largely over his handling of the pandemic. He also was politically wounded for dining at a fancy Napa Valley restaurant in November while Golden Staters were being told to limit their private gatherings. DeSantis, , would not have to worry about such a scenario in the Sunshine State. On Wednesday, Newsom announced a . billion coronavirus relief bill that includes  stimulus checks for more than . million Californians. As we continue to fight the pandemic and recover, Im grateful for the Legislatures partnership to provide urgent relief and support for California families and small businesses where its needed most, Newsom said in a statement. Across the country, DeSantis direct approach to the pandemic has won him support from some in the GOP as a potential  presidential candidate. Josh Holmes, an adviser to Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell, said DeSantis was having a moment with conservatives. Its policy and its partly stylistic, the way he handles the news media, and his bluecollar appeal, Holmes was quoted by politico.com as saying. Tampa, Florida, was the site of the Feb  NFL Super Bowl, in which the Tampa Bay Buccaneers defeated the Kansas City Chiefs. DeSantis was spotted at the game at times without a mask. How the hell am I going to be able to drink a beer with a mask on? Come on, the governor reportedly said. On Feb , DeSantis bristled when questioned by reporters about the impact of public Super Bowl celebrations on the virus spread. You dont care as much when its a peaceful protest, he said. You dont care as much if youre celebrating a Biden election. You only care about if its people you dont like. The latest data from the Johns Hopkins University Coronavirus Resource Center show California with more than . million coronavirus cases, while Florida has around . million. California had , COVID deaths as of Sunday in Florida, the number was ,. Californias population . million in  US Census data is slightly less than twice Floridas around . million. Los Angeles County, the nations most populous county, had nearly , COVID deaths as of Sunday, the highest number of any US county. LA County also had the highest number of confirmed coronavirus cases, more than . million. MiamiDade County in South Florida had , COVID deaths as of Sunday, seventh highest among US counties, and more than , confirmed cases, fourth most in the US. Florida has fully vaccinated about  percent of its population, while in California, it was  percent as of Sunday. California does better on test positivity, with . percent positive, and Florida at . percent. Both states saw a downtrend in new cases last week. As the vaccines make their way around the country, the question eventually will be if the lockdowns were beneficial. One thing that is ascertainable, though, is the economic and emotional devastation wrought by the disruption of the US economy, which in  saw its largest contraction since . From shuttered restaurants and stores and their laidoff workers, to restrictions on funerals, weddings and sporting events, to a rise in suicide and drug abuse, to the impact on the emotional and social development of tens of millions of children who cannot attend school in person, the lockdowns have exacted an exorbitant price. The pandemic restrictions will reach the oneyear mark next month. As more people are vaccinated, its likely that Americans will have a lot of pentup wanderlust as spring approaches. And if certain states keep their restrictions, Florida looks poised to count more tourist dollars than that other splendid vacationland, the one on the West Coast.