Nations call for more efforts on regional peace
2021/10/22 9:23
People walk past the Bank of England during morning rush hour, amid the coronavirus disease COVID pandemic in London, Britain, July , .  British Medical Association calls for return of restrictions as cases rise fast The chairman of the British Medical Association, or BMA, has said the government is being wilfully negligent by not reimposing COVID control measures such as the mandatory wearing of face masks, despite the United Kingdom having recorded more than , new cases for eight days in a row. Despite the pleas of many representatives of the medical establishment, the government has yet to bring in the socalled Plan B, of tighter regulations, with the justification being that the National Health Service, or NHS, is not yet under unsustainable pressure. The BMAs chairman Chaand Nagpaul said he found the attitude of Health Secretary Sajid Javid incredibly concerning, saying that case numbers in the UK were unheard of in similar European nations. Now was categorically the time to take action, he added. It is, therefore, incredibly concerning that Javid is not willing to take immediate action to save lives and to protect the NHS, he said. Nagpaul went on to say that the government had taken its foot off the brake, giving the impression that the pandemic is behind us and that life has returned to normal. It is wilfully negligent of the Westminster government not to be taking any further action to reduce the spread of infection. At a news conference on Wednesday, Javid said that daily case numbers could reach as high as ,. Official government figures published on Oct  gave a figure of  deaths recorded within  days of a positive test. For comparative purposes, Britains worst air crash, at Staines in June, , claimed  lives. Javid was heavily criticized for calling the daily death figures mercifully low, with the opposition Labour Partys shadow health minister Justin Madders saying Since the start of September there have been , deaths from COVID. That is more than the total deaths for April, May, June, July and August combined. That is not mercifully low. But Health Minister Edward Argar told BBC Breakfast that the health service still had the ability to manage the situation, which was why the rules were not being changed yet. He said that NHS hospitals have around , beds, of which , are currently occupied by COVID patients, and , are empty. We know how those numbers can rise swiftly, which is why were looking at that day by day, hour by hour. But at the moment we do have the ability to manage, he said. Javid has spoken of the importance of people who have been vaccinated booking themselves booster jabs at the first opportunity, but this has just led to more confusion. In another interview, on Sky News, Argar said that anyone over the age of  who had received their second COVID jab six months and one week ago should not wait for an invitation, but should go and book their own booster jab. However, the NHS website tells patients that only those who have been contacted are able to book further injections. Meanwhile, one of the most highranking officials at the World Health Organization, Bruce Aylward, has warned that the pandemic will go on for a year longer than it needs to because of the lack of global vaccine equality. While  percent of the population of most continents have been vaccinated, in Africa, the figure is less than  percent, and although many richer nations have pledged to donate vaccines to the COVAX program to help poorer nations, the UK, as an example, has so far only delivered around onetenth of the  million doses it pledged. I can tell you were not on track, said Aylward. We really need to speed it up or you know what? This pandemic is going to go on for a year longer than it needs to.