First freight train departs China for Europe since Spring Festival
2021/2/19 11:09
US Senator Ted Cruz speaks to the media at the Cancun International Airport before boarding his plane back to the US in Cancun, Mexico on February , .  Republican Texas Senator Ted Cruz told his constituents on Monday I was speaking this weekend with the meteorologist expert who was saying the combination of these two storms, we could see up to  people lose their lives this week in Texas. So, dont risk it. Keep your family safe and just stay home and hug your kids. Then on Wednesday evening, Cruz didnt stay home. He went to Cancun, Mexico. He boarded a United Airlines flight on a day when more than  million customers in the Lone Star State were still in the dark, according to poweroutage.us, which tracks outages nationwide. As of Thursday morning, that figure was about ,. One photo on social media showed Cruz wearing a mask and pulling carryon luggage as he boarded a plane in Houston. People on the flight also took photos of Cruz and put them on social media. On Thursday, after the trip drew widespread ridicule and outrage on social media, Cruz was on a plane to return to Houston. He issued a statement explaining that he wasnt on a vacation for himself in Cancun, but chaperoning his daughters, ages  and , and their friends on the flight. Wanting to be a good dad, Cruz said, he decided to fly with them last night and am flying back this afternoon. Later Thursday, in an interview with Telemundo at the Cancun airport, Cruz suggested that his daughters asked him and his wife, Heidi, to go on the trip only hours before the family left for the airport. Cruz said in his statement that his staff and I am in constant communication with state and local leaders to get to the bottom of what happened in Texas. He also said in his statement that our family lost heat and power like millions of Texans, but he told a radio host earlier this week that he hadnt lost power at his Houston home. In neither his statement nor in his comments to Telemundo did Cruz say if he had originally planned to stay with his daughters longer or address the criticism of him on social media and elsewhere for going to Mexico. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention rates the risk of the coronavirus in Mexico at level   the agencys highest level of warning  and says on its website Travelers should avoid all travel to Mexico. State Democratic leaders went after Cruz, with some saying he should resign. Some noted that last November Cruz criticized Austin Mayor Steve Adler, a Democrat, for taking a vacation to Cabo San Lucas, Mexico, amid the coronavirus pandemic while urging his citys residents to stay home. The state Republican Party chair declined to deend Cruz on Thursday. Thats something that he has to answer to his constituents about, Texas GOP Chair Allen West said when asked about Cruzs trip. Agencies contributed to this story.