Serena stopped by Osaka in Australian Open SF
2021/2/18 13:38
Japans Naomi Osaka with Serena Williams of the US after their semi final match of the Australian Open at Melbourne Park, Melbourne, Australia, February , .  MELBOURNE, Australia  Once again, Serena Williams came within reach of a recordtying th Grand Slam singles title, playing well enough to get to the closing days of a major tournament. And once again, Williams couldnt quite get it done  beaten ,  by Naomi Osaka in the Australian Open semifinals on Thursday Wednesday night EST. Osaka, who also beat Williams in the chaotic  US Open final, reached her fourth major title match and stretched her winning streak to  matches by claiming the last eight points. I dont know if theres any little kids out here today, but I was a little kid watching her play, Osaka, , said about Williams, , and just to be on the court playing against her, for me, is a dream. The No. seeded Osakas Grand Slam collection also includes last years US Open and the  Australian Open and she is, without a doubt, the most dangerous hardcourt player in the womens game at the moment. That used to be Williams, of course. But she was offtarget too much in this contest, finishing with twice as many unforced errors, , as winners, . After collecting her professional erarecord rd major singles trophy at the Melbourne Park in  while pregnant, Williams has not been able to pull even with Margaret Courts mark of  for the most Grand Slam titles in history. Since returning to the tour in  after having her daughter, Williams has reached four major finals and lost them all. Shes also now lost in the semifinals twice in that span. On Saturday, at  pm. local time  am. EST, Osaka will meet a firsttime Grand Slam finalist for the championship. No.  Jennifer Brady of the United States was scheduled to face No.  Karolina Muchova in Thursdays second semifinal. One mens semifinal was on Thursdays schedule No.  Novak Djokovic vs. Aslan Karatsev, a qualifier from Russia who is ranked th and playing in his first Grand Slam tournament. Djokovic is seeking a ninth Australian Open title and th Grand Slam trophy overall. Rafael Nadal  who lost in the quarterfinals to Stefanos Tsitsipas after blowing a twoset lead  and Roger Federer are tied for the mens record of . Spectators were back in the stands at Rod Laver Arena on Thursday after they were barred from attending the tournament for five days during a local COVID lockdown. About , people were allowed into the stadium for WilliamsOsaka, roughly half of capacity. Ushers walked through the aisles at changeovers to remind fans they needed to wear a mask or over their nose and mouth. On the hottest day of the hardcourt tournament so far   degrees Fahrenheit  Celsius  Osaka got out to a shaky start, perhaps prodded into pressing in her opening service game by a booming crosscourt backhand return winner from Williams on the matchs second point. That was followed by a doublefault, a wild forehand and, eventually, a netted backhand that handed over a break. Quickly, Williams went up , then held another break point with a chance to lead  after another doublefault by Osaka. I was just really, like, nervous and scared, I think, at the beginning, said Osaka, who was born in Japan and moved to the U.S. when she was . And then I sort of eased my way into it. Didnt take long to right herself, however. Suddenly, it was Osaka powering in aces, putting groundstrokes right where she wanted, covering the court so well. Williams movement has been terrific in Melbourne, but she suddenly was flatfooted, her miscues accumulating precipitously. Five games went by in a flash, all into Osakas column, and soon enough, the first set belonged to her, too. Williams frustration was made plain early in the second set, when she leaned over at the baseline and screamed, Make a shot! Make a shot! Osaka never has tried to hide how much she admires Williams and models her game after the Americans. Both are predicated on the same basic elements of big serves and quickstrike forehands, and not only did Osaka do both better on this day, she even sounded just like her idol, screaming Come on! after several key shots. Williams herself began to get louder and increasingly animated the deeper into the second set they went  and plenty of folks on hand were excited to show their support, clapping and yelling after each successful stroke. Those pulling for Williams got their wish Osaka blinked. A trio of doublefaults in one game  she wound up with eight for the match  allowed Williams to break for all. But Osaka regained her composure immediately, breaking back at love with the help of a pair of backhand winners and a doublefault from Williams, then holding at love to end it.