Liangjiang launches Spring Festival activities for tourists
2021/2/18 9:43
With strict measures to prevent and control the novel coronavirus pandemic, Liangjiang New Area in Southwest Chinas Chongqing municipality achieved , visits during the Spring Festival holiday, which lasted from Feb  to  this year. Happy Valley hosts the traditional molten steel spray performance for tourists during the Spring Festival holiday. .gov.cn Chongqing Happy Valley Happy Valley had a singleday visit record of , people during the holiday. Visitors were most drawn to the molten steel spray performance, a folk custom with more than , years of history. All the visitors received body temperature measurements and had their luggage checked before entering the park. Chongqing Garden Expo Chongqing Garden Expo was decorated with , red lanterns and festive flowers to welcome tourists and provide a festive atmosphere. More than , people visited the garden during the holiday, which is less than  percent of the gardens capacity. The attendance cap was a part of the expos pandemic prevention and control requirements. Visitors enjoy folkcustom performances at Chongqing Liangjiang Movie City. .gov.cn Chongqing Liangjiang Movie City From Feb  to , the movie city received more than , people who came to watch the Spring Festival performances and learn about Chongqings folk customs. All the visitors were required to wear masks, have their body temperature measured and present health codes. Chongqing Jihua Park A daily average of about , people purchased tickets and visited the park to experience indoor extreme sports and snow sports. The park required online ticket reservations with real names, and tourists had to present their health codes before entering. Chongqing Grand Theater The theater arranged various shows and concerts during the holiday. The average audience for each performance was around  to  people. The audience needed to present their tickets and identification cards to watch performances and have their body temperature measured. Masks had to be worn while guests were at the theater.