Europeans now eyeing Chinese jabs
2021/2/18 7:32
A visitor checks out a LOreal smart mirror during the third China International Import Expo in Shanghai in November. The mirror uses augmented reality technology to help users design their own hairstyles. LYU LIANGFOR CHINA DAILY Skincare and beauty company LOreal Group is working hard to carry out its good consumption pledge made during the China International Import Expo, with a torrent of new store openings and campaign launches targeting the Chinese market within a month. The development comes after LOreal last week reported spectacular sales in the country, propelling the groups fourthquarter business performance. Just days ahead of the Lunar New Year, a CE Stylenanda flagship store was launched in Shanghais downtown Xintiandi area, where customers can purchase a variety of cosmetics by CE, a brand originally from South Korea and later acquired by LOreal. As CE Stylenandas largest flagship store in China, it features four themed areasa courtyard labyrinth, a space with futuristic cars, an area imitating a watery space and another recreating the scenery of Jeju Island, South Korea. To celebrate the opening of the Shanghai flagship store, the brand launched a limitededition CE collection exclusive to the city. Such robustness is reflective of LOreals overall strength in China, where  percent yearonyear growth was achieved in the fourth quarter of , compared with its . percent dip globally. The market recovered significantly in the second half, growing over  percent in the year, boosted by strong omnichannel demand for selective brands and very dynamic ecommerce, the company said in a news release on Feb . LOreal Group Chairman and CEO JeanPaul Agon said recently that consumption was key to economic recovery and proposed its good consumption framework in Shanghai to ride the trend. China and the European Union can draw many lessons from each other, Agon said. For example, the EUs experience in safety and regulation can be a good reference for China, while Chinas success in enabling digital consumption can inspire Europe. For instance, Miss M, which the company says is its firstever virtual host, brought to life MG beauty masks after first appearing during the third CIIE in November. Customers are now likely to run into Miss M any time of the day as they watch the brands livestreaming sessions, a ubiquitous practice in Chinas retail landscape today to retain and attract users, according to MGs brand director Li Xiaomei. While the artificial intelligencebacked Miss M is designed to give more detailed introductions of products, we now view her as being more than a virtual assistant. Instead, shes the bridge connecting the brand and our customers, Li said. Li added that the brand is considering more dedicated columns and video channels to better engage with customers keen to learn about skincare tips and the vast array of masks and skincare products the brand is poised to offer. During the latest CIIE, LOreal highlighted its participation not as a beauty company, but as an ecosystem, meaning a comprehensive approach to cocreating content, experience and beauty tech with technology startups, consumers and other partners. For instance, it set up a Beautytech Lab to present beautytech innovation and strategic transformation achievements from deeply integrating AI, augmented reality, the internet of things, G and other cuttingedge technologies with beauty products, use and consumption scenarios, marketing models and supply chains. In Shanghai, it rolled out Chinas first Super Lab featuring D and VR technologies by its SkinCeuticals brand, which is known for brightening skin tones. With the aid of Chinese tech startup ArchiFiction, LOreal presents a seamless space where customers can touch and feel products and immerse themselves in vivid brand storytelling and product introductions without needing wearable gadgets. They are then redirected to a QR code, allowing instant purchases and immediate home delivery. The nakedeye DVR experience, which first entered commercial use in China, helps us build strong online and offline interconnectivity, bringing consumers a disruptive immersive entertainment retail experience, said Wang Minli, general manager of the SkinCeuticals brand in China.