Past resonates at ancient site on Silk Road
2021/2/16 13:47
Tourists visit the Mogao Grottoes, a UNESCO World Heritage site with numerous ancient murals and Buddhist statues, in Dunhuang, Gansu province. Photo provided to China Daily In the Dunhuang grottoes and surrounding areas in Gansu province, visitors can hear voices from the dust and sample the flavors of life long ago Bumping ones way slowly on the back of a camel across the desert of Dunhuang, Gansu province, a modernday visitor can easily imagine the past, when traders trudged along the ancient Silk Road, chatting and laughing in good spirits as they expected a good harvest. Dunhuang, which means grand glory in English, is a major gateway linking China with the West. Traces of exchanges between different civilizations can be found in the mottled murals and Buddhist statues of its iconic Mogao Grottoes, the rolling sandstone of EchoingSand Mountain, a quiet oasis in the Gobi Desert, mysterious ancient graves and numerous earthtone ruins. All of this attracts more than  million tourist visits from around the world every year. Zhang Yuping, a taxi driver in Dunhuang, said during peak season in July and August, the small city would be packed with tourists. Room prices at fourstar hotels and above would be as high as , yuan  per night. And he, like the other , or so local taxi drivers, would work around the clock to serve passengers. Some tourists are curious about remote, exotic desert scenery, and some have a strong interest in Buddhist art, he said. Zhang recalls one of his most memorable clientsan intellectual from Beijing who chartered his car for two days and visited every grotto except the farthest one, Yulin Grottoes,  kilometers from downtown, because of a tight travel schedule. Ten minutes after I dropped him off at the airport, he called back to say he had canceled the flight and was determined to go to the Yulin Grottoes, Zhang said. He told me he might not be able to sleep if he just left. He said the client also paid extra money to see all the speciallyprotected caves at Mogao Grottoes. Each visit costs  to  yuan. The number of tourist visits to the city grew by  percent annually during the  period, according to He Yanhong, deputy director of the Dunhuang culture, sports, radio, television and tourism bureau. Total tourist visits reached around . million in , about  percent of what it was annually before the coronavirus pandemic. However, October and November last year saw a yearonyear increase, after crossprovincial travel recovered in midJuly, he said. Dunhuang, one of the first cities in China to open to the West, has long been a port of entry along the ancient Silk Road. It borders the Xinjiang Uygur autonomous region on the west, beyond which lies Central AsiaKazakhstan,Uzbekistan and other countries. Farther still lies Europe. The path to civilization may be strewn with thorns, but the result of the journey has been remarkable. When envoy Zhang Qian was sent by emperor Wu during the Han Dynasty  BCAD  to seek diplomatic alliances with countries and tribes in the West, he passed through Dunhuang and thought it was an important base. So he suggested the emperor to build a city in the barren desert. As officials, soldiers and merchants moved to Dunhuang from inland areas, military fortresses were built at Yangguan Pass and Yumen Pass, and Dunhuang established its name firmly in history. Tourists at Yumen Pass in Dunhuang in December. Photo by Its construction also laid the foundation for cultural exchanges. A foreign culture will not remain in a cultural desert. As with the human longing for an oasis, culture needs an oasis too, said Wang Xudong, director of Beijings Palace Museum, in the book The Grottoes Corridor of China. Dunhuang bridges ancient Chinese, Indian, Greek, Roman and Egyptian civilizations. For thousands of years, traders speaking different languages came to Dunhuang to buy and sell Chinese silk, tea, porcelain, Western gemstones, spices, horses and fruit. The prosperous social and commercial activity has been depicted in paintings on walls of the ancient grottoes. Ji Gang, a global partner at consultancy Roland Berger, said as a trade city with multiple languages and a blend of cultures and ethnic characteristics, Dunhuang shows the diversity and inclusiveness of the country. Its architecture, colored sculptures, wall paintings and other artworks were created by ancestors from different regions and eras, and are a priceless treasure for China and the world. The Mogao Grottoes are a UNESCO World Heritage site with their numerous ancient murals and Buddhist statues in  caves. They are a rich resource for artistic and historical exploration. Back in , a monk named Le Zun visited Dunhuang and witnessed a sunset on Sanwei Mountain. He believed the golden light was a sign of Buddha, and regarded it as sacred land. Then he raised money and hired workers to dig the first cave on the mountain so he could sit in meditation. During the following  dynasties, more Buddhist believers, including monks, officials, merchants and members of royalty commissioned Buddhist statues and paintings, and the scale of the grottoes expanded. However, as the Maritime Silk Road took over as the major channel for exchanges between China and the West, the role of land traffic to Dunhuang faded. After the Yuan Dynasty , construction of grottoes ceased. In , residents moved inland, and Dunhuang became the home of nomads. The grottoes were forgotten for hundreds of years, and many parts were destroyed by wind, water and thieves. Thats why the remaining caves are so valuable, said Li Ping, head of cultural promotion department at Dunhuang Academy. Tourists ride camels at the EchoingSand Mountain in Dunhuang. Photo by Wang BinyinChina Daily Since opening to the public in , the number of tourist visits surged from , to a peak of . million in . Last year, with visitation reduced by the coronavirus, it welcomed . million visits. Now, it has about , foreign visits annually, mainly from Japan, the United States and South Korea. The attraction offers guided services in six languagesChinese,English, Japanese, French, Korean and German. All films, exhibitions and signboards have English translations. In addition to sightseeing, tourists can view the restoration process, digital information collection, environment monitoring center and documents excavated from the caves, Li said. Because the pandemic curbs travel, the grottoes have developed digital platforms, such as online museums, WeChat mini programs and livestreaming for whoever has an interest. The academy has also published a series of academic books for primary and middle school students. Immersive, interactive digital experiences are offered elsewhere in the city. Yangguan Pass, for example, invited tourists to experience the grand ceremony of sending off envoys and soldiers in ancient times, including the issuance of customs clearance documents, a farewell drink of alcohol and the gift of a willow branch. Giving willow branches was a tradition to say farewell to friends in ancient China. Tourists can also shoot arrows, ignite signal fires, make rubbings, copy wall paintings and color pottery in classesall ways to meet the growing demand for indepth, handson experiences, said Wu Fengping, deputy general manager of the scenic spot. Located  km south of urban Dunhuang is Yangguan Pass, known by most Chinese from a poem by Wang Wei of the Tang Dynasty . I invite you to drink a cup of wine again. West of the pass no more friends will be seen, Wang wrote. Workers at Yangguan Pass scenic spot, wearing traditional Chinese costumes, welcome tourists in January. Photo provided to China Daily The relics of military beacon towers, kilns, graves, city walls and a reservoirthough now mere faint remains in earth tonesecho like voices from the dust about life and ordinary people at the frontier fortress, Wu said. A tourist commented on Ctrip, an online travel agency, that leaving Yangguan Pass is like going abroad long ago. Tourists can buy an ancient version of a passport, write their names on it and get it stamped before being checked at the gate. Without the document, tourists have to answer a question about the Silk Road to pass. It was very interesting! the tourist said. She said tourists can reach the relics by camel, horse, mule car or electric car. Words cannot express my feelings when I saw the ancient Yangguan Pass. Who could imagine that below the sand a whole city is buried? she said. Travel agencies provide two typical tourist tracks in DunhuangOne day to visit the Mogao Grottoes, EchoingSand Mountain and Crescent Moon Springthe most famous scenic spots near the downtown area or a oneday drive to the western lineDunhuang studio city, West Thousand Buddha Caves, Yangguan Pass, Yumen Pass and Yadan National Geological Park. Direct flights are available from Chinese cities including Beijing,Shanghai and Lanzhou, capital of Gansu. Deep discounts for tickets and hotels are offered from December to the end of March to promote winter tourism. Information registration, body temperature checks, reservations and masks are required for epidemic control.