UK PM under rising pressure to lift all COVID lockdown restrictions by end of April
2021/2/15 7:11
British Prime Minister Boris Johnson watches as a nurse administers the PfizerBioNTech COVID vaccine to Lyn Wheeler at Guys Hospital, in London, Britain, on Dec , .   Downing Street via Xinhua In a letter to the prime minister, leaders of the Covid Recovery Group said the tremendous pace of the vaccination rollout means restrictions in England should begin easing from early March. The letter was sent to the prime minister at a time when a government scientific advisor warned that Britain could face another coronavirus wave as big as the current one if lockdown restrictions were all lifted. LONDON, Feb.  Xinhua  British Prime Minister Boris Johnson is under mounting pressure to lift all COVID lockdowns in two and a half months as lockdownsceptic Tories called on him to commit to a timetable for easing the restrictions with a complete end to controls by the end of April. In a letter to the prime minister, leaders of the Covid Recovery Group CRG said the tremendous pace of the vaccination rollout means restrictions in England should begin easing from early March, the Londonbased Evening Standard newspaper reported on Sunday. They said ministers must produce a costbenefit analysis to justify any controls that remain in place after that date, with a roadmap stating when they would be removed. The letter was organized by the CRG chair and deputy chair, Mark Harper and Steve Baker, and was said to have the backing of  Conservative Party lawmakers in all. People wearing face masks walk past the Vaccination Centre at ExCel exhibition centre in London, Britain, Jan , .  The letter was sent to the prime minister at a time when a government scientific advisor warned that Britain could face another coronavirus wave as big as the current one if lockdown restrictions were all lifted. Professor Steven Riley, a member of the Scientific Pandemic Influenza Group on Modelling, has said the rollout of the vaccination program did not mean coronavirus controls could be dropped. No vaccine is perfect, he told a BBC radio program. We are certainly going to be in the situation where we can allow more infection in the community but there is a limit. If for some reason we were to choose to just pretend it coronavirus wasnt here any more then there is the potential to go back to a wave that is a similar size to the one that we are in now, he added. The prime minister confirmed Saturday that the reopening of schools is still his priority, followed by opening shops and then hospitality. This was further reiterated by British Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab, who said on Sunday that the British government remained focused on reopening of schools on March . The British ministers said they are confident they will meet their target of getting an offer of a vaccine to all  million people in Britain in their four priority groups, including all over s, by Feb s deadline. A man wearing a face mask walks past ambulances at The Royal London Hospital in London, Britain, on Jan , .  During a visit to a vaccine manufacturing facility in Teesside on Saturday, Johnson said he was optimistic he could announce plans for a cautious easing of the rules when he sets out his roadmap out of lockdown on Feb. . However, he said ministers would have to look at the data very, very hard before taking any decisions as they did not want to be forced into a reverse ferret if the disease started to spread again. In contrast, the CRG, in their letter, said that the governments national priority of reopening schools in England by March  must be achieved. By Easter, they said pubs, restaurants and other hospitality venues should be able to open in a way that is COVIDsecure but still allows them to operate in a commercially viable manner. And by the end of April, when all the governments top nine priority groups, including all over s, should have been offered a vaccine, they said there will be no justification for any legislative restrictions to remain. COVID is a serious disease and we must control it. However, just like COVID, lockdowns and restrictions cause immense social and health damage and have a huge impact on peoples livelihoods, the letter said. The vaccine gives us immunity from COVID but it must also give us permanent immunity from COVIDrelated lockdowns and restrictions, it said. By March , the governments top four priority groups, which account for  percent of deaths and  percent of hospitalizations, will have had their first dose of the vaccine at least three weeks earlier allowing time for protection to kick in, it said. A man collects a swab for a coronavirus test at a temporary COVID testing facility set up in Ealing, a district in western London, Britain, on Feb , .  All restrictions remaining after March  should be proportionate to the everincreasing number of people we have protected, it added. The burden is on ministers to demonstrate the evidence of effectiveness and proportionality with a costbenefit analysis for each restriction, and a roadmap for when they will be removed, it noted. Downing Street refused to be drawn on reports suggesting that restrictions on meeting friends in a park could be among the first to be lifted once schools are back. England is currently under the third national lockdown since outbreak of the pandemic in the country. Similar restriction measures are also in place in Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland. To bring life back to normal, countries such as Britain, China, Germany, Russia and the United States have been racing against time to roll out coronavirus vaccines.