US records nearly , coronavirus variants infections
2021/2/14 9:22
Travelers with face masks wait for public transportation services at the International Airport in Los Angeles, California, the United States, Feb , .  WASHINGTON  Nearly , infection cases of coronavirus variants have been reported in a total of  US states, according to the latest data of the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention CDC. The vast majority of these cases, , were caused by the variant known as B..., which was originally detected in Britain. There were  cases of a new strain initially discovered in South Africa, called B.., and three cases of the P. strain first discovered in Brazil. These are the three dominant coronavirus variants currently spreading in the United States, according to the CDC. Numerous SARSCoV variants have emerged over the last several months, attracting the attention of health and science experts worldwide. The B... and B.. concern scientists because of emerging data suggesting their increased transmissibility, according to an article published Friday in the Journal of the American Medical Association JAMA. Variants can carry several different mutations, but changes in the spike protein of the virus, used to enter cells and infect them, are especially concerning. Changes to this protein may cause a vaccine to be less effective against a particular variant, according to the study written by Anthony Fauci, the nations top infectious disease expert, and other researchers. The authors note that the B.. variant may be partially or fully resistant to certain SARSCoV monoclonal antibodies currently authorized for use as therapeutics in the United States. Healthcare workers help a patient in the COVID Area of the Beverly Hospital in Montebello City, California, the United States, Jan , .  A new SARSCoV variant, CAL.C, has been detected in southern California amid a surge in local infections and is spreading through and beyond the United States, according to another research letter published in JAMA. By Jan , the variant had grown to account for  percent of all coronavirus strains in California and  percent of all samples in the southern part of the state and had been detected in  states as well as other countries, according to the study by researchers at CedarsSinai Medical Center in Los Angeles. The recognition of all new variants, including the novel emergent strain in California, requires systematic evaluation, according to the researchers. The rise of these variants is a reminder that as long as SARSCoV continues to spread, it has the potential to evolve into new variants. The fight against SARSCoV and COVID will require robust surveillance, tracking, and vaccine deployment worldwide, said the studies. Researchers also note the need for a pancoronavirus vaccine. Once researchers know more about how the virus changes as it spreads, it may be possible to develop a vaccine that protects against most or all variants. The United States has recorded over . million cases with more than , related deaths as of Saturday afternoon, according to the realtime count kept by Johns Hopkins University.