Chinese celebrate Spring Festival in new ways as millions stay put
2021/2/14 7:22
Gift packages for students who stay put during the Spring Festival are seen at the Central South University of Forestry and Technolgy in Changsha, Central Chinas Hunan province, Feb , .  This Spring Festival, millions of Chinese chose not to go back to their hometowns for family gatherings, opting instead to stay where they were for the most important holiday of the year. As a part of the preventative measures against COVID, China has encouraged people to stay locally for the Chinese New Year, inducing new changes to how people celebrate the holiday, such as the increasing use of online services and local tours. BEIJING  When firecrackers were set off to celebrate the Spring Festival, millions of Chinese chose not to go back to their hometowns for family gatherings, opting instead to stay where they were for the most important holiday of the year. As a part of the preventative measures against COVID, China has encouraged people to stay locally for the Chinese New Year, inducing new changes to how people celebrate the holiday, such as the increasing use of online services and local tours. Staylocal drive Su Jianxiong, a postgraduate in Central South University of Forestry and Technology, central Chinas Hunan Province, spent his first Chinese New Year away from home. On New Years Eve, traditionally one of the most important occasions of family reunion, Su was invited to dinner hosted by the university. He also received a gift package including masks, disinfectants, nuts and chocolates from the school. Su, who hails from Zhejiang Province, about , km away, chose to stay at the school to avoid potential risks of infection during the trip and spend more time preparing for his thesis. The care and hospitality shown by the university gave me a homely feeling, Su said. Another large group responding to the stayput call is migrant workers. A survey led by the China Association for Labor Studies showed, among over , respondents in about  enterprises, . percent of migrant workers chose to stay at their current enterprises or cities for the Spring Festival this year. Li Baojun, a worker in Daxing district in southern Beijing, which recently witnessed a resurgence of sporadic COVID cases, decided to stay put instead of going back to his hometown in east Chinas Anhui Province. The Daxing district government has offered shopping coupons, phone data packages and free online reading services to migrant workers like Li. Everything is smooth here, and my wife understands my decision of not returning home this year as it is for the sake of safety, Li said. Migrant workers who choose to stay put during the Spring Festival gather to celebrate the festival at a construction site in Hefei, East Chinas Anhui province, Feb , .  Moving online Ye Sifan, who works in the southwestern Chinese city of Chongqing, decided not to return to her hometown in north Chinas Hebei Province. Instead, she celebrated the festival with two other colleagues by booking a table for New Years Eve dinner through a food delivery platform. I got a sevencourse meal for  yuan about . U.S. dollars, which is a decent New Years Eve dinner, Ye said. Traditionally, the dinner is homemade or enjoyed together with families at restaurants. This year, however, a new trend with the surging popularity of semifinished products and online offerings has been seen. According to statistics from Chinas major online food delivery platform Ele.me in early February, the number of brands and stores offering New Years Eve dinner sets surged by  percent and  percent, respectively, compared with the same period last year. The number of New Years Eve dinner sets that were offered surged nearly three times compared with the figure last year. More people have also opted to shop online for the Spring Festival. Chinas Ministry of Commerce launched a campaign in late January to promote online shopping by offering online vouchers for the Spring Festival. In Hunan Province, online sales have exceeded . billion yuan since the launch of the campaign, up . percent year on year, according to the provincial department of commerce. Staff members from the federation of trade unions of Jiulongpo District of Chongqing distribute Spring Festival gift packs to employees who choose to stay put during the Spring Festival holiday at a company in Chongqing, Southwest China, Jan , .  Traveling local Ye Lusha, a Beijing resident, canceled her travel plan to the tropical city of Sanya in south Chinas Hainan Province this year. Yet family trips are not completely off the table. Yes new plan is to take her parents to the Great Wall and enjoy a hot spring bath afterward. My parents are really anticipating the trip although its local. Against the backdrop of the epidemic, we have come to appreciate the simple things around us more than ever, Ye said. Many Chinese travel agencies have rolled out services focusing on local trips to meet the travel demands such as Yes. Dai Yu, a marketing director of online travel agency Trip.com Group, said the company provides private tours that cater to those who want to travel locally in a family unit. Through private tour using an independent vehicle as well as family dinner service on New Years Eve, crossinfection can be avoided while ensuring quality time for the family, Dai said. When it comes to short trips, an increased preference for suburban resort hotels has been seen among customers, with most rooms in popular scenic spots booked up. A number of hotels in Changsha, capital of Hunan Province, have promoted hotel vacations for local residents. Some also organized reading events and exhibitions in the hotel for families to enjoy together. Due to the limitation on the flow of people, Beijing held online temple fairs to showcase traditional crafts and cooking skills. Starting Feb , tourists can also book free tours to Beijings parks. Tickets to the Summer Palace, a famous tourist site, have been fully booked up for the first five days of the Chinese New Year. Migrant worker Gu Benguo makes a video call with his wife at a construction site in Beijing, Capital of China, Feb , . Gu chose to stay in Beijing during the Spring Festival instead of going back to his hometown in east Chinas Anhui Province. 