Thiem halts The Nick Kyrgios Experience at Australian Open
2021/2/13 9:24
Austrias Dominic Thiem celebrates after winning his third round match against Australias Nick Kyrgios during the Australian Open at Melbourne Park, Melbourne, Australia, February , .  MELBOURNE, Australia  The Nick Kyrgios Experience was in full effect against Dominic Thiem, from the underarm ace that successfully closed the second set to the aroundtheback, betweenthelegs miss that ceded the third and so much more  to the delight of the Australian Opens last spectators for a while. Kyrgios, a yearold Australian who is part showman and part sideshow, had a grand ol time while he was off to a perfect start, egging on a rowdy, partisan crowd and building a twoset lead in the third round Friday against No.  seed Thiem, the reigning US Open champion and last years runnerup at Melbourne Park. Not surprisingly, the talented and tempestuous Kyrgios was decidedly less amused after his level of play dipped, resulting in a tossed racket, his customary sort of backandforth with the chair umpire, a couple of warnings that resulted in a point penalty  and a hardtoswallow loss to Thiem by a score of , , , , . At Flushing Meadows last September, Thiem became the first man in  years to come back to win the final after dropping the first two sets, so this was nothing new for him. That match showed me ... that giving up is never an option. There is always a chance, said Thiem, who faces Grigor Dimitrov next. Today, I was so close to losing. In calm contrast to the everanimated Kyrgios, Thiem reserved his displays of emotion to a simple shake of a raised right fist that marked his break to go up  in the fifth set and then the last point. This was Kyrgios second consecutive fivesetter at ,capacity John Cain Arena in the previous round, he erased two match points en route to eliminating No.  Ugo Humbert. This time, he was the one who blew a lead, which could have been even more significant, had he not wasted a pair of break points at the start of the third set. Australias Nick Kyrgios during his third round match against Austrias Dominic Thiem.  Thiems mindset there? I was dealing with the loss already, he said. The stadium was about threequarters full Friday many in attendance were not mindful of being socially distant or wearing the masks that were to become mandatory at midnight for the state of Victoria. The state government has imposed a fiveday lockdown because of an uptick in COVID cases. While competition at the tournament can continue, no spectators will be allowed as of Saturday. Tonight was epic, Thiem said, and a good last match before the lockdown. So with one last night out for the time being, folks were living their best lives. They sang at changeovers, while Kyrgios sipped from a soda can. They jumped and screamed at Kyrgios winners. They pounded the backs of seats. They cheered Thiems mistakes. They booed close line calls that went against Kyrgios  even though such decisions are determined by an automated system of cameras, not line judges, at this event. The spectacle started during the warmup, when Kyrgios  wearing a beige sleeve on his left leg  paused his practice serves to wave his racket and ask his fellow Aussies to get louder. They obliged, of course, eliciting a big grin from their guy. When Kyrgios broke serve in the matchs initial game, he hopped in delight and relished the cascading cheers, cupping his right hand on his ear to again implore for more  and, again, they complied. His first game featured an underarm serve and a betweenthelegs halfvolley, neither of which worked  nor were they the last of those tricks he would try. When Thiem pushed a forehand out to get broken and trail  in the second, Kyrgios yelled Lets go, baby! as he strutted to the changeover. When the underarm ace ended the set, Kyrgios stretched his arms wide, as if to say, Are you not entertained? Later, he questioned the loss of a point on a hindrance call, saying that his yell was no louder or more distracting to his opponent than other players grunts.