More coronavirus variants spread in US
2021/2/11 12:46
Frontline healthcare worker Joanne Grajeda administers a nasal swab test at a drivein COVID testing site amid a surge of COVID cases in El Paso on Nov ,  in El Paso, Texas.  The number of known coronavirus variants is surging across the US, with close to , types that spread more easily, bypass treatments and immunities, or both, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. In the last week alone, the number increased by  percent, the CDC said, reaching  cases. The increase in variants has been highest in Florida, which now has  cases, up from  cases reported during Sundays Super Bowl, which was held in Tampa. That is more than twice as many known variant cases as any other state, with California a distant second. Health officials in the state reported a new variant that appears to have originated in the San Francisco Bay Area. The vast majority of the countrys known variant cases, and all of Floridas, are of the B... variant, which was first detected in the UK. Last month, UK researchers said theres evidence the variant may be more deadly than others, and its also considered at least  percent more transmissible than the original strain. The CDC has said it may become the dominant strain in the US by March. Johnson  Johnson asked the US Food and Drug Administration for an emergencyuse authorization for its vaccine on Feb . Experts say the JJ COVID vaccine has advantages over others because it is a single shot and can be stored at regular refrigerated temperatures. Pfizers and Modernas authorized vaccines both require two doses. The Pfizer vaccine needs to be kept at deepfreeze temperatures. The CDC on Wednesday reported the results of a lab experiment that spaced two artificial heads  feet apart and checked to see how many coronavirussized particles spewed by one were inhaled by the other. The researchers found that wearing one mask  surgical or cloth  blocked around  percent of the particles coming toward the head that was inhaling. When a cloth mask was worn on top of a surgical mask, about  percent were blocked. About . million Americans have been fully vaccinated against COVID while nearly  million  or about  percent of the population  have so far received at least a first dose of the twopart vaccines, according to the CDC. More than  million vaccine doses have been distributed in the US, according to the CDC. Were in a situation, and we will be for a little while, of undersupply, said Andy Slavitt, the senior White House adviser for COVID response.