Chinas pursuit of sustainable development paves way for its carbonneutral pledge
2021/2/10 9:40
Liangjiang New Area in Southwest Chinas Chongqing municipality will offer various tourism activities during the Spring Festival holiday, which lasts from Feb  to  this year. All visitors should make reservations, wear face masks, present health codes and maintain a meter social distance between each other while at the scenic spots. Staff members at Happy Valley dress in hanfu to welcome visitors during the Spring Festival holiday. .gov.cn Happy Valley From Feb  to , Liangjiangs Happy Valley will launch a hanfu festival, including parades and dance shows, to offer visitors an immersive experience. Happy Valley staffers disinfect the area regularly and encourage visitors to purchase tickets on the attractions official WeChat and Weibo accounts. Chongqing Garden Expo The garden expo will launch seven featured activities during the holiday. Visitors can solve riddles posted on lanterns to win prizes, play fun games and enjoy a flower show. Chongqing Liangjiang Movie City provides various activities to celebrate Chinese New Year. .gov.cn Chongqing Liangjiang Movie City The movie city will launch various activities to celebrate Chinese New Year. From Feb  to , tourists who purchase ticket packages can join the garden party for free and win prizes by playing games. Both skiers and nonskiers can enjoy a wonderful time at Chongqing Jihua Parks skiing facility. .gov.cn Chongqing Jihua Park Chongqing Jihua Park is a recreation town for extreme sports, skiing, shopping, dining and accommodation. From Jan  to Feb , the park will choose  lucky guests to win ticket packages. The parks skiing site covers an area of , square meters and is equipped with ski runs for both professionals and beginners. There are also areas for nonskiers and children to play in the snow. Chongqing International Exhibition  Trading Center From Feb  to , the center will hold shopping festivals for customers to enjoy discounts on imported goods. Customers can also write down their wishes and resolutions for the new year and play games to win oxshaped puppets to celebrate Chinese New Year.