Wuhan just one piece in pandemic jigsaw China Daily editorial
2021/2/9 7:30
Beijing residents buy highquality beef and mutton in Ox Street, on Feb , . Photo by Wang JingChina Daily Ox Streets food stores attract long lines At  am, Ox Street, known in Chinese as Niujie Street, in downtown Beijing was bustling with people rushing to work and shop. On the east side of the street, two long lines formed outside a food store  minutes before it opened, while on the west side, more people waited patiently for other food shops to begin business. These scenes took place on Feb , just  days before Lunar New Years Eve, which this year falls on Thursday. People living in the Chinese capital have a wide range of options when it comes to buying food for the Spring Festival holiday. However, countless shoppers always head to Ox Street, which is located in Xicheng district about  kilometers southwest of Tiananmen Square. The street is home to the citys largest population of the traditionally Muslim Hui ethnic group. Customers line up to buy snacks in the area, on Feb , . Photo by Wang JingChina Daily That morning, Jiang Haoming, , waited in line for two hours to buy snacks and beef. For the first time, Jiang will not return to his hometown of Nanjing, capital of Jiangsu province, to celebrate Spring Festival with his family. Instead, he will spend the weeklong holiday in Beijing, as due to the pandemic, people have been encouraged to avoid unnecessary travel during the vacation. I often come to Ox Street to buy food because of the highquality beef and mutton as well as the delicious snacks, said Jiang, who works for an online education institution and lives in the Maliandao area, about a minute drive from Ox Street. I buy a lot of foodincluding snacks and drinkonline, but I always want to come to this street because I enjoy seeing the snacks on offer and other food, such as steamed stuffed buns, beef pancakes and noodles with mutton soup, which taste best when they are hot. Although I am not going to Nanjing, I will have dinner with friends on Lunar New Years Eve. Like me, they have decided to stay in Beijing during the holiday. We will share tasty food together and I dont think Ill be bored or lonely. My mother sent me some food from my hometown and I have started to prepare for the holiday by cleaning my house and buying food. After all, its Spring Festival, one of the most important traditional occasions in China. Unlike Jiang, Sha Zhigang, a member of the Hui ethnic group, was born and grew up in the area around Ox Street. Sha, now in his s, visits small restaurants in the street for breakfast after taking his yearold grandson to a primary school. He later shops for lunch and dinner at a food market in the area. He said he waited about  minutes to buy one of his favorite snacks, wandouhuang cake made from pea paste. Most of my family live in Ox Street, and we dont want to move because its very convenient to buy food here. Before Spring Festival, we usually buy beef and mutton to make dumplings or hotpot during the holiday, Sha said. He added that during Lantern Festival, which this year falls on Feb , his family will buy yuanxiao, a ballshaped dessert made from glutinous rice, which comes in different flavors, such as chocolate, sesame and red bean paste. More people will be coming to Ox Street to buy yuanxiao, so we will get up early to join the line, Sha said, adding that his grandson loves chocolateflavored variety. Shoppers wait outside the Hongji store in Ox Street during the weekend. Photo by Wang JingChina Daily Steamed buns Ma Zhihong, who sells steamed stuffed buns at Hongji, a food store in Ox Street, said These lines of food shoppers are here every day. People from around the city come to buy beef, mutton and snacks, and many of the food stores have featured in television programs, which has attracted more people, such as young tourists. Born in Ox Street, Ma, , has worked for Hongji for more than  years. The store sells three kinds of steamed stuffed bunsbeef, mutton and vegetable. It is estimated to sell , buns every day, and more during weekends and holidays. Ma said that early last year, when the coronavirus outbreak emerged, the lines of customers outside food stores disappeared as people stayed home. Thanks to the countrys efforts to bring the pandemic under control, things are back to normal now, although everyone wears a face mask, she said. Hongji, also known as Hongji Snack, is one of Ox Streets bestknown food stores, winning many admirers for its homemade offerings such as glutinous rice cake, fried beef and mutton. It also serves breakfast, including deepfried dough sticks and douzhi, a traditional Beijing fermented drink made from ground beans. The manager of Hongji Snack, Hong Yuchun, said the brand dates to , when it only sold three types of snacks. Now, it sells more than . We have many old customers living in the neighborhood who enjoy traditional food. New customers who buy food here are attracted by Ox Streets reputation, Hong said. Her parents started selling homemade food, but their first store in the street was extremely small, with only one window for customers to place orders. Hong said that although many young people order food digitally, she operates without any advertising or online business. Customers will return to us as long as flavor and quality are guaranteed and prices are reasonable, she said. Hong added that nearly every food store and restaurant in the Ox Street area started as family businesses, which have been passed on from one generation to the next. The areas timehonored food brands include Yueshengzhai, founded by Ma Qingrui in , which is known for its mutton products, and Nai Lao Wei Cheese Wei, founded by Wei Hongchen during the Qing Dynasty . Shoppers wait outside the Jubaoyuan store in Ox Street during the weekend. Photo by Wang JingChina Daily Tourists visit Ox Street to get a glimpse of the old city and to taste authentic Beijing snacks and Muslim food. One of its bestknown restaurants is Jubaoyuan, which does a roaring trade in hotpot and snacks. Customers are offered seats outside the twofloor eatery to wait for tables, and it remains open until  pm to cater to a constant stream of diners. Founded in , the Jubaoyuan brand started by selling fresh beef and mutton. In , Ma Gang, a member of the Hui ethnic group, founded eponymous restaurants, which  years later became known for their signature producthotpot. Ma, who lives in Ox Street, said We go to the slaughterhouse daily to buy fresh meat to sell the same day. Customers come to the restaurants to taste not only fresh mutton and beef, but also for our hotspot sauce, grilled mutton kebabs and sesame seed baked cakes. There are now nine Jubaoyuan branch restaurants in different areas of Beijing, and Ma said many of their tables have been booked for the Spring Festival holiday. In addition to its restaurants and food stores, the area is known for the Ox Street Mosque, built in  during the Liao Dynasty , and for its hutongs alleyways and siheyuan courtyards. A supermarket selling halal food, where customers can buy a range of snacks from wellknown brands, is located next to the Jubaoyuan restaurant. Wang Yaxiang, who sells snacks at the supermarket, said, Snack boxes are among the favorite holiday gifts for the older generation in Beijing, and many people are still buying them. These square paper boxes contain a range of sweet delights, such as cream cake, hawthorn cake and jujube paste cake. Wang said I noticed some young customers using their phones to record the process of packing the snack boxes. They shared the footage online. For the younger generation, this is a new and interesting experience. Due to the coronavirus outbreak last year, An Fengqin, who is in her s and was born and raised in Ox Street, was unable to have Lunar New Years Eve dinner with her parentswho still live in the area. Instead, the family members greeted one another online. This year, she plans to visit the street during the Spring Festival holiday to take care of her parents, who are in their s. Last year, the Spring Festival holiday was full of sadness because of the bad news about the pandemic. We didnt know what to do other than stay home with our families. This year, we want to start over again to have a happy holiday. Although the pandemic is ongoing, we know how to protect ourselves and our families, An said. After getting married in , An moved to Jinsong, Chaoyang district, with her husband, where they still live. A girl selects yogurt at a store in Ox Street on Feb , . Photo by Wang JingChina Daily Area upgraded In , roads in the Ox Street area were widened and local residents living conditions were improved. More than , families, comprising , people, benefited from these measures. According to Ox Street A Muslim Communitys Change in Beijing, a book by folklorist Liang Jingyu, who is also a professor at the School of Ethnology and Sociology at Minzu University of China, it was the largest upgrading project in Beijing in the s. Ans family moved from a large courtyard, which was home to some  other families, to a story building. Before the pandemic struck, An visited Ox Street to see her parents, former neighbors and childhood friends. I feel at home when Im in this neighborhood. I have so many memories here and there are numerous choices of delicious food. When we celebrate Spring Festival, its all about families, she said. When I was a child, Spring Festival was what I looked forward to most during the year. My parents bought me and my five siblings new clothes and shoes. They also made us food, such as dumplings, which we didnt have at any other time of the year. Unlike young people today, we had less entertainment, but we set off firecrackers in hutongs with friends during Spring Festival. Although life was simple and we were generally poor, we had so much fun.