China rides surge in crossborder ecommerce demand
2021/10/20 18:55
An online discussion conference that gathers representatives from Jinan, its sister cities and different organizations is held in Jinan, capital of East Chinas Shandong province, on Oct . Photo provided to chinadaily.com.cn Jinan, capital of East Chinas Shandong province, has been ramping up efforts to strengthen exchanges and cooperation ties with foreign cities, pushing forward its openingup to the outside world, officials said. Those remarks were made on Oct  at an online discussion conference organized by the Chinese Peoples Political Consultative Conference CPPCC Jinan Committee in association with Jinans Foreign Affairs Office. Representatives from Jinans sister cities and friendly cooperation cities of countries including the UK, Japan, South Korea, Russia and Finland, as well as participants from international friendship associations, organizations and media outlets took part in the event via online video links to explore higher level cooperation opportunities or share their wisdom with Jinan. The deepening ties with sister cities have provided a bridge for crossregional exchanges and cooperation, said Lei Jie, chairwoman of the CPPCC Jinan Committee, at the conference. They have become an important channel for cities across different countries to share resources and achieve mutually beneficial results. Since establishing relationships with its first sister city Wakayama, Japan, in , Jinan currently has  international sister cities and maintains friendly cooperative exchanges with  foreign cities across five continents, including Sacramento in the United States, Coventry in the UK, Vantaa in Finland, as well as Nizhni Novgorod in Russia. The cooperation ties have even been increasing despite the impacts from the COVID pandemic. During the COVID outbreak,  international organizations and cities sent letters and messages expressing sympathy for Jinan. Also, Jinan donated , masks to  sister cities and organizations in Italy, South Korea, Cambodia, Britain and Japan. Thanks to the strong support of our sister cities, Jinans total volume of imports and exports increased by  percent last year while strictly fighting the COVID pandemic, Lei said. Tian Ying, director of Jinans Foreign Affairs Office and president of the Jinan Peoples Association for Friendship with Foreign Countries, shared the same sentiment. Jinan has been attaching great importance to deepening international exchanges, especially with its sister cities and friendly cooperation cities, she said at the conference. John McNicholas, mayor of Coventry, said We are so proud of our relationship with Jinan and of the twinning movement. Our international links are making us a better city. It helped us welcome students from around the world, people of all races and faiths, and we embrace their cultures and their ideas. In addition, Jinan has created a better environment for international exchanges and cooperation. As a central city in the Yellow River Basin, Jinan received approval from the State Council, Chinas Cabinet, in April to build the Jinan Startup Area for Growth Drivers Transformation. The region will be a pilot area for Chinas industrial policies, which will provide a broader space for indepth cooperation between Jinan and its sister cities. The Jinan international sister city garden project was launched to build international gardens in the city to showcase iconic landscapes from Jinans sister cities, as well as to create a healthier and more natural environment. To date, a rosethemed garden featuring the style of Kazanlak, a city in Bulgaria, and a Lithuanianstyle garden have been built. Gardens will also be completed that feature the styles of Siem Reap province in Cambodia and Vantaa. This is a special year for the relationship between Jinan and Vantaa, as we are celebrating  years of sister city friendship between our cities, said Ritva Viljanen, mayor of Vantaa. During these  years, we have developed many prosperous connections. We have created opportunities for our businesses to meet and establish new contacts, and possibilities to grow, Ritva added. At the conference, Lei quoted an old Chinese saying that goes Nothing, not even mountains and oceans, can separate people with shared goals and vision. She expressed hopes that all sides work together to explore new approaches for mutual communication and cooperation to advance higher level of openingup.