Economic recovery, firming renminbi fuel cash inflow
2021/2/9 6:40
China took the third place globally in terms of digital economy competitiveness in , following the US and Singapore, according to an annual report by the Shanghai Academy of Social Science released on Jan . The report analyzed the worlds digital economy development based on four aspects digital industry, innovation capability, facility construction and governance. The United States retained its dominant position in digital economy competitiveness and has been topping the list for four consecutive years, while the gap between the US and China is narrowing year by year, the report said. Lets have a look at the top  countries by digital economy competitiveness. No  The Netherlands A person uses D goggles during an art installation by Dutch visual artist Victorine van Alphen in VondelCS Cultural Centre, Amsterdam, Netherlands, on Aug , . No  Australia Fireworks explode over the Sydney Opera House and Sydney Harbour Bridge during downsized New Years Eve celebrations during the COVID pandemic, in Australia, on Jan , .  No  Sweden A general view of the Ericsson headquarters in Stockholm, Sweden, on Jan , .  No  Finland A boat embarks for a tour in Helsinki, Finland, on May , .  No  Japan An employee of Honda Motor demonstrates a digital key app on a smartphone, in front of a fullwidth digital dashboard, comprised of five integrated highresolution color screens, inside a Honda E electric car in Japan on Aug , .  No  The United Kingdom Singersongwriter Dan Olsen and his guitarist use technology based on a Victorian optical illusion to demonstrate how Musion Ds virtual concert system allows performers to connect with their fans in central London, Britain on Oct , . No  South Korea A woman wears a mask inside a glasscovered bus stop in which a thermal imaging camera, UV sterilizer, air conditioner, CCTV and digital signage are set, to avoid the spread of COVID in Seoul, South Korea, on Aug , .  No  China A staff member looks at a robot at the venue of the World Artificial Intelligence Conference in Shanghai.  No  Singapore People watch a light show at Marina Bay in Singapore on Jan , .  No  The United States Times Square in New York City. 