Great expectations
2021/2/9 0:00
Tom Brady made his seventh Super Bowl title look familiardespite moving south to a new team and conference during a pandemic. Brady threw two touchdown passes to old friend Rob Gronkowski and one to good pal Antonio Brown, and the Tampa Bay Buccaneers routed Patrick Mahomes and Kansas City  on their home field in Super Bowl  in Tampa, Florida, on Sunday. The GOAT earned his fifth Super Bowl MVP award and extended his Super Bowl titles record in his th appearance, nine with New England. The yearold Brady broke his own mark for oldest player to win a Super Bowl and joined Hall of Famer Peyton Manning as the only quarterbacks to win one with multiple franchises. Im not making any comparisons, Brady said. Experiencing it with this group of guys is amazing. Stunningly, it was easier than any of his previous Super Bowl victories, which came by an average margin of five points. Mahomes lost by double digits for the first time in his fouryear career. The Buccaneers  took their second NFL title and first in  years as the first team to play the big game at home, capping an unusual and challenging season played through the coronavirus pandemic. They won three road games as a wild card to reach the Super Bowl, and joined the NHLs Tampa Bay Lightning as a  season champion. The Floridian citys baseball team, the Rays, also went to the World Series but lost to the Los Angeles Dodgers. Im so proud of all these guys, Brady said. We had a rough November but we came together at the right time. We knew this was gonna happen. We played our best game of the year. Mahomes and the Chiefs  failed to become the first repeat champions since Bradys Patriots in . I didnt see it coming at all, Chiefs coach Andy Reid said. I thought we were going to come in and play these guys just like weve been playing teams, and it didnt happen that way. I give them credit on that. The NFL completed its game season on time without any cancellations, a feat that required nearly one million COVID tests for players and team personnel. Due to the virus, only , maskwearing fans attended, including approximately , vaccinated healthcare workers given free tickets by the NFL. About , cardboard cutouts made the stadium look full. A streaker wearing a hotpink onesie eluded security and slid into the end zone with  left in the game. Kansas Citys highpowered offense never got that far against Tampas ferocious defense. Obviously I didnt play the way I wanted to play, Mahomes said. What else can you say? All you can do is leave everything you have on the field. I feel like the guys did that.... They beat us pretty good, the worst Ive been beaten in a long time. Bruce Arians became the oldest coach at age  to win the Super Bowl. His mom, yearold Kay Arians, witnessed it in person. Brady, Gronkowski and defensive coordinator Todd Bowles helped Arians get that Vince Lombardi Trophy. This really belongs to the coaching staff and our players. I didnt do a damn thing, Arians said after he was handed the trophy. Bowles devised a masterful plan to frustrate Mahomes and shut down the Chiefs, the complete opposite of Kansas Citys  win in Tampa in Week , when the Chiefs jumped to a  lead in the first quarter. Tyreek Hill had  yards receiving and three TDs in that one. He was held to  yards on seven catches Sunday. After the Chiefs took a  early lead, it was all Brady and the Bucs. Brady accomplished a careerfirst with an eightyard TD pass to Gronkowksi for a  lead with  seconds left in the first quarter. Bradys nine Super Bowl teams in New England produced just three points total in the first quarter. Gronkowski, who came out of retirement to play with his buddy, caught his th and th postseason TDs from Brady. They had been tied at  with Jerry Rice and Joe Montana. Despite playing at home, the Buccaneers werent allowed to fire the cannons from their famed pirate ship after touchdowns and big plays. They did it soon after the clock expired as red, white and black confetti fell onto the field. Fans still enjoyed the thud of Gronks thunderous spike after his first score. Tampa missed an opportunity to extend the lead when Bradys twoyard pass to offensive lineman Joe Haeg was knocked out of his hands in the end zone. Ronald Jones was stopped short on consecutive carries as Arians stuck to his no risk it, no biscuit philosophy and went on fourth down. But the Chiefs didnt gain any momentum off the stop. Instead, they made one costly mistake after another. First, AllPro tight end Travis Kelce dropped a pass that wouldve been a big gain on third down. Then punter Tommy Townsend shanked a yarder after a penalty forced him to kick again. The Bucs started at Kansas Citys  instead of their . A holding call on cornerback Charvarius Ward negated an interception by AllPro safety Tyrann Mathieu. Kansas Citys defense held but an offside penalty during Ryan Succops successful field goal gave the Buccaneers a first down. Sarah Thomas, the first woman official in a Super Bowl, threw that flag. Brady fired a strike to Gronkowski for a yard TD and a  lead. Gronk hesitated before spiking the ball, waiting to make sure another flag on the play was against the sloppy Chiefs. Mahomes drove the offense for a yard field goal by Harrison Butker that cut it to , but Kansas Citys defense fell apart in the final minute of the first halfallowing  yards on two passinterference penalties. One against Mathieu in the end zone set up Bradys TD pass to Brown for a  halftime lead. It was Brady who convinced his new team to give Brown a chance after the troubled former AllPro came off suspension. His TD toss to Brown was his th of the season, including  in the postseason. Mathieu took an unsportsmanlike penalty after the TD pass for getting into it with Brady as he ran to the sideline. Leonard Fournette ran  yards untouched to extend Tampas lead to . Succops yard field goal increased the lead to . Last year, Mahomes rallied the Chiefs from a point deficit against San Francisco, but Tampas pass rush gave him no chance in this one. Shaq Barrett had one of three sacks on Mahomes, who spent most of the game trying to escape Jason PierrePaul, William Gholston and a relentless group. There was nothing that was gonna stop us from winning this game, Barrett said. I knew we were going to keep the pressure up. Coach Bowles had a great game plan. We had the guys up there to make it work and we made it work, baby. After  seasons in New England, Brady signed a  million, twoyear contract with Tampa in March. The Buccaneers hadnt reached the playoffs since  and hadnt won a postseason game since the  title season. The warmer climate suited Brady perfectly. He passed NBA legend Michael Jordan in championships and it doesnt seem hes ready to slow down. He already said he might play past age . AP Tampa Bay Buccaneers quarterback Tom Brady right and tight end Rob Gronkowski celebrate after beating the defending champion Kansas City Chiefs  in Super Bowl  at Raymond James Stadium in Tampa, Florida, on Sunday. USA TODAY SPORTS Tom Brady, , celebrates with the Vince Lombardi Trophy after winning his seventh Super Bowl ring on Sunday. REUTERS