Tom Brady wins Super Bowl No , Buccaneers beat Chiefs
2021/2/8 11:57
Tom Brady of the Tampa Bay Buccaneers celebrates after defeating the Kansas City Chiefs in Super Bowl LV at Raymond James Stadium in Tampa, Florida on Feb , .  TAMPA, Fla.  Tom Brady made his seventh Super Bowl title look familiar  despite moving south to a new team and conference during a pandemic. Brady threw two touchdown passes to old friend Rob Gronkowski and one to good pal Antonio Brown, and the Tampa Bay Buccaneers beat Patrick Mahomes and Kansas City  on their home field in Super Bowl  on Sunday. The GOAT extended his Super Bowl titles record in his th appearance, his first without Patriots coach Bill Belichick. The yearold Brady broke his own mark for oldest player to win a Super Bowl and joins Hall of Famer Peyton Manning as the only quarterbacks to win one with multiple franchises. The Buccaneers  won their second NFL title and first in  years while becoming the first team to play the big game at home, capping an unusual and challenging season played through the novel coronavirus. Tom Brady of the Tampa Bay Buccaneers celebrates as his daughter Vivian holds the Lombardi Trophy after defeating the Kansas City Chiefs in Super Bowl LV at Raymond James Stadium on February ,  in Tampa, Florida. The Buccaneers defeated the Chiefs .  They won three road games as a wildcard team to reach the Super Bowl. Tampas victory prevented Mahomes and the Chiefs  from becoming the first repeat champions since Bradys Patriots did it in . The NFL completed its game season on time without any cancellations, a remarkable accomplishment that required nearly  million COVID tests for players and team personnel. Due to the virus, only , maskwearing fans were allowed in, including approximately , vaccinated health care workers who were given free tickets by the NFL. About , cardboard cutouts made the stadium look full. A streaker wearing a hotpink onesie eluded security and slid into the end zone with  left in the game. Mahomes and Kansas Citys highpowered offense never got that far against Tampas ferocious defense. Bruce Arians became the oldest coach at age  to win the Super Bowl. His mom, yearold Kay Arians, witnessed it in person. Brady, Gronk and defensive coordinator Todd Bowles helped Arians get that Vince Lombardi Trophy. Bowles devised a masterful plan to frustrate Mahomes and shut down the Chiefs, the complete opposite of Kansas Citys  win in Tampa in Week , when the Chiefs jumped to a  lead in the first quarter. Tyreek Hill had  yards receiving and three TDs in that one. He was held to  yards on seven catches. After the Chiefs took a  early lead, it was all Brady and the Bucs. Brady accomplished a careerfirst when he tossed an yard TD pass to Rob Gronkowksi to give the Buccaneers a  lead with  seconds left in the first quarter. Bradys nine Super Bowl teams in New England produced just three points total in the first quarter. Gronkowski, who came out of retirement to play with his buddy, caught his th and th postseason TDs from Brady. That broke the record they shared with Jerry Rice and Joe Montana, who combined for . Tom Brady of the Tampa Bay Buccaneers celebrates with Gisele Bundchen after winning Super Bowl LV at Raymond James Stadium on February ,  in Tampa, Florida.  Despite playing at home, the Buccaneers werent allowed to fire the cannons from their famed pirate ship after touchdowns and big plays. They did it soon after the clock expired as red, white and black confetti fell onto the field. Fans still enjoyed the thud of Gronks thunderous spike after his first score. Tampa missed an opportunity to extend the lead when Bradys yard pass to offensive lineman Joe Haeg was knocked out of his hands by Anthony Hitchens in the end zone. Ronald Jones was stopped short on consecutive carries as Arians stuck to his No risk it, no biscuit philosophy and went on fourth down. But the Chiefs didnt gain any momentum off the stop. Instead, they made one costly mistake after another. First, AllPro tight end Travis Kelce dropped a pass that wouldve been a big gain on third down. Then punter Tommy Townsend shanked a yarder after a penalty forced him to kick again. The Bucs started at Kansas Citys  instead of their . A holding call on Chiefs cornerback Charvarius Ward negated an interception by AllPro safety Tyrann Mathieu. Kansas Citys defense held but an offside penalty during Ryan Succops successful field goal gave the Buccaneers a first down. Sarah Thomas, the first woman official in a Super Bowl, threw that flag. Brady needed one play, firing a strike to Gronkowski for a yard TD and a  lead. Gronk hesitated before spiking the ball, waiting to make sure the flag on the play was again against the Chiefs. Mahomes drove the offense for a yard field goal by Harrison Butker that cut it to , but Kansas Citys defense fell apart in the final minute of the first half  allowing  yards on two pass interference penalties. One against Mathieu in the end zone set up Bradys TD pass to Brown for a  halftime lead. It was Brady who convinced his new team to give Brown a chance after the troubled former AllPro came off suspension. His TD toss to Brown was his th of the season, including  in the postseason. Mathieu took an unsportsmanlike penalty after the TD pass for getting into it with Brady as he ran to the sideline. Agencies