World warmly welcomes Chinese vaccines
2021/2/8 9:52
Here are some of the most striking images from around the world over the past week. Students are seen as study resumes at all schools amid strict health precautions after about a year of suspension due to the COVID pandemic in Khartoum, Sudan on Feb , .  Workers load South Africas first COVID vaccine doses as they arrive at OR Tambo airport in Johannesburg, South Africa on Feb , .  A pedestrian carries his dog in his jacket while walking in the snow in New York City on Feb , . New York State declared a state of emergency in New York City, Long Island and seven counties in Hudson Valley as a heavy snowstorm has been hitting the area hard starting Sunday night.  Red lanterns set for Chinese Lunar New Year are pictured at Thean Hou Temple in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia on Feb , .  A Koala and tree decorated with Chinese lanterns are seen at Wild Life Sydney Zoo, in Sydney, Australia on Feb , . The Chinese Lunar New Year falls on Feb , .  A photo taken on Feb ,  shows the aurora borealis or Northern Lights seen from a tree hotel, located about  kilometers south of the Arctic Circle in northern Sweden. The tree house hotel, located in a dense pine forest some  kilometers south of the Arctic Circle, has become a frequent visitor spot since its opening in .  Aircraft perform during Aero India  at Yelahanka air base in Bangalore, India on Feb , . Indias premier aerospace and defense exhibition kicked off in the southern city of Bangalore on Wednesday.  Chilean President Sebastian Pinera right greets Ernestina Godoy, , after she received a dose of COVID vaccine from Chinese firm Sinovac in Futrono, a city in the southern region of Los Rios, Chile on Feb , . Chile on Wednesday launched its mass vaccination campaign against COVID, inoculating people over  years old at over , vaccination centers across the country. The campaign is being carried out with almost  million vaccines from Chinese firm Sinovac, which arrived aboard two flights last week. More doses will gradually arrive over the coming weeks.  A health worker takes a selfie while receiving a dose of Chinas Sinovac COVID vaccine during a mass vaccination program for health workers as a main priority group in Jakarta, Indonesia on Feb , .  A visitor wearing a face mask walks down the staircase of the Vatican Museums on Feb , . The museums, previously closed due to the COVID outbreak, reopened on Feb , and visitors are required to make appointments online before arrival. 