Malaysia begins phase  trials of Chinadeveloped COVID vaccine
2021/2/8 9:50
Spains Rafael Nadal during a practice session before the Australian Open in Melbourne, Australia on Feb , .  Forget about aces or doublefaults, winners or unforced errors The statistic that has come to mean the most in tennis these days is Grand Slam titles won. Which is why so much attention will be paid to Rafael Nadal, Novak Djokovic and Serena Williams at the Australian Open. Play begins at Melbourne Park on Monday, with Williams and Djokovic among those on the schedule and Nadals firstround match set for Day . Each match for each member of that trio is a possible step on the way to some history. People love records, dont they? said Chris Evert, an time major champion who is now an ESPN analyst. I, for one, think that too much is made of Grand Slam wins. This is Nadals first chance to grab sole possession of the mens mark for most Grand Slam singles titles. He pulled even with Roger Federer at  by winning the French Open in October, beating Djokovic in a lopsided final. Federer is still sidelined after two knee operations. A second Australian Open trophy also would allow Nadal to become the first man in the Open era to win each Grand Slam tournament at least twice. He has  championships at Roland Garros, four at the US Open, two at Wimbledon. He still would have work to do to catch Williams She already has  Slam singles titles plus  in doubles and two in mixed doubles, the most by anyone in the Open era. Only one player owns more Margaret Court, with  after professionals were admitted to major tournaments. Its definitely on my shoulders and on my mind, Williams said about . I think its good to be on my mind. I think its a different burden, I should say, on my shoulders, because Im used to it now. And even if Williams tour of a room where some of her hardware is displayed lit up social media, she made a point of explaining she finds other ways to define her value. My life is way more than a trophy. Theres way more to me than a championship, said Williams, who turns  in September and last won a major title at the  Australian Open while pregnant. For me, every time I step on the court, I know Im this tennis player, but at the same time Im a mom, Im a human. She lost in the third round in Australia a year ago, then was hampered by an Achilles issue during a semifinal loss at the US Open. That same problem forced her to withdraw from the French Open before the second round. Serbias Novak Djokovic in action during his group stage doubles match with Nikola Cacic against Germanys Alexander Zverev and JanLennard Struff in Melbourne, Australia, Feb , .  For Djokovic, in addition to trying to break his own record for most mens titles at the Australian Open by getting No , and trying to ensure he will eclipse Federer for most weeks at No  in the ATP rankings, there is the matter of closing the Grand Slam gap. Adding another major championship would give him two behind Federer and Nadal. Pandemic looms large There arent plans to regularly test players , spectators will be allowed on the grounds per day,  percent of usual capacity but , more than at last years US Open. Still, the coronavirus pandemic will surely be a constant talking point over the next two weeks. I got a lot of messages from people in Europe saying, Whats going on? Why are you not wearing a mask? They were, like, Whats happening? said  runnerup Garbi?e Muguruza, a Spaniard. And I was explaining that here, fortunately, they did well, and there are no cases, and thats why people are having a normal life. One issue that could be key The lack of normal pretournament preparation could lead to lackluster play or injuries. Electronic calls For the first time at a major tennis tournament, every match will be played without line judges present. Instead, calls will be made electronically. Most matches at the US Open were done this way, but the two biggest courts retained the human elementand Djokovic was disqualified after smacking a ball that inadvertently struck a lineswoman in the throat. First defense Sofia Kenin, a yearold American, will be defending her first Grand Slam title. Iga Swiatek, a yearold from Poland, will be playing in a Grand Slam tournament for the first time since winning a majorshe beat Kenin in last years French Open final. Swiatek acknowledged feeling more pressure than usual, adding I know that its hard, sometimes, to be back on tour after a win like that. Nextgen rising Dominic Thiem ended a run of  consecutive Slam triumphs for Djokovic, Nadal and Federer by winning the US Open in September, so now the question in mens tennis is Whos next? Thiem, the  runnerup to Djokovic in Australia, calls the yearold Serb the favorite, but if some other firsttime major champion is going to emerge, who might it be? Daniil Medvedev, Andrey Rublev, Stefanos Tsitsipas and Alexander Zverev are all possibilities. AP