Big guns aiming to serve up some history Down Under
2021/2/8 0:00
We cant keep guns on the shelf, said Charles Weston, owner of Drum Magazines in Kansas City, Missouri, who said customers are buying more since the Jan  riot at the US Capitol that left five people dead, including a Capitol Police officer. More than  million guns were sold in January, a  percent increase over the same month last year and a record for January sales, according to US News World Report, which cited the industry trade group National Shooting Sports Foundation. The sales continued a record surge that began when the coronavirus pandemic took hold early last year. Guns, ammunition, any extra accessories. Any optics. Anything thats going to give that advantage. Trying to buy bulletproof vests, even gas masks, gun store owner Weston told KSGBTV, an NBC affiliate in Kansas City. Weston said his customers arent acting out of fear, but preparation. Gene Smith, coowner of Hoover Tactical Firearms in Birmingham, Alabama, said his store has been crowded with customers since the day after proTrump protesters stormed the Capitol, forcing lawmakers and VicePresident Mike Pence to flee as they were voting to affirm the Electoral College victory of President Joe Biden. Smith told Fox affiliate WBRC TV in Birmingham that about  percent of his business can depend on what is going on nationally. I like the attention, but I dont like the issues that created the attention toward firearms, he said. I think some people are overreacting and some people are just simply reacting. People are becoming very untrusting of everything and everybody, Smith added. Michigan and New Jersey recorded the biggest percentage change in firearms purchases in January, compared with the previous year, at more than triple the national rate, according to the National Shooting Sports Foundation. According to the FBI, background checks for firearms purchases surpassed . million in January. It was the largest monthly tally since the FBI began keeping track in , and the first time the count has topped  million, Forbes reported. The federal agency conducts background checks for every firearms sale or attempted sale. The monthly figures also incorporate checks for things like permits that some states require to carry a firearm. On the day of the Capitol riot, the FBI said it conducted , background checks, followed by , more over the next three days. The fear of social unrest after the riot played a role in Januarys sales, according to another firearms trade group, Small Arms Analytics and Forecasting. US arms sales soared in  as the pandemic took hold. Estimated firearms purchases climbed to an unprecedented . million in March, which was early in the pandemic when cities and states issued stayathome orders to contain the spread of the deadly disease. The death of George Floyd, a black man who died on May  last year after a white police officer in Minneapolis arrested him and pressed his knee onto his neck, set off a summer of racialjustice protests, looting and rioting. Firearms sales went higher, to . million in June and . million in July. Biden, meanwhile, has supported gun control measures like a ban on assault weapons. On Feb , White House press secretary Jen Psaki responded to a question of where gun control stands on Bidens legislative priorities, after he had promised to act on his first day in office on the issue. She said Biden would love to see action on gun control. As vicepresident, and even before that, the president took on the NRA National Rifle Association twice and won. This is an issue he is personally committed to, many in this building are personally committed to I think he would love to see action on additional gun safety measures to protect families and children. There is no national registry that records who owns guns and when they purchase them. But according to a survey conducted by the National Shooting Sports Foundation last summer, roughly  percentor . millionof the guns purchased in  were by firsttime buyers. It also found that  percent of the purchasers were women, the largest demographic group of buyers was black Americans, and most firearms sold last year were small handguns. aihepingchinadailyusa.com