Five children, one adult killed in Oklahoma shooting
2021/2/7 11:36
Recently, two articles on The Economist and China International Television CGTN websites have similar headlines on human rights, but they have given very different answers to this. The article published on the Economist came to a conclusion that people in China are strikingly accepting of harsh virus control measures. In other words, Chinese people do not care about personal freedoms or privacy, so they could tolerate these burdensome, sometimes a bit sinister restrictions. While the opinion piece on the CGTN wrote that Americans love challenging authority, even if its good to them. They believe if they wear masks, the virus wins. Its such a joke that a country that does not even care about or try to protect the lives of its own citizens is now trying to convince others that it genuinely works to protect human rights in other countries. What are human rights? How to protecting human rights? It is not an empty slogan it is concrete and downtoearth. Under the gloom of the COVID pandemic, peoples right to life is the most important of all human rights. This would definitely be a basic experience for all mankind. At least in , the title  the country with the worst human rights  must go to the US. It has done the worst in the pandemic, and almost given up the effort to protect its people. Over , Americans have lost their lives due to COVID so far, the highest death toll from the novel coronavirus in the world. In addition, racial discrimination has spun out of control in the US. Just these two cases can nail this highly hypocritical Western power on the pillar of shame on human rights issues. The accusations against China by the US and the West have completely become a malicious confrontation against Chinas governance. Chinese people are well aware of that now. We dont believe they are fighting for human rights for the Chinese. We are deeply disgusted by what they do. The West should stop pretending to care about human rights in China. Such hypocrisy is disgusting.