Tesla China supercharger factory starts production
2021/2/7 10:02
A man wearing a protective face mask walks past an Australian Open logo in Melbourne Park, Melbourne, Australia, February , .  MELBOURNE  Australias secondmost populous state of Victoria reported no local novel coronavirus cases on Saturday for the second straight day, tapering down concerns about the Australian Open tennis tournament due to start in Melbourne on Monday. More than  staff and players at the event, the years first Grand Slam, tested negative for the novel coronavirus on Friday in retesting required after a worker at their quarantine hotel caught the virus. Positive cases could have spurred a lockdown or more limits on spectators attending the tournament. Some , people attended the event last year but due to the pandemic authorities have approved , fans per day, about  capacity. Qualifying matches were cancelled on Thursday while test results were pending. The Victorian government has ruled that, except for players, masks will be mandatory for matches played under a closed roof. Following the most recent case, masks are required in all indoor spaces in Victoria. That applies to the stadia at the Australian Open when the roofs are closed, its like any other indoor setting, Victorian Chief Health Officer Brett Sutton said at a press conference on Saturday. Health Minister Greg Hunt said on Twitter that there was no new community coronavirus case across the whole of Australia Saturday. That makes zero on  of the last  days, Hunt wrote. EXCITED TO PLAY Australia has been far more successful than most advanced economies in managing the pandemic, with total infections at under , and  deaths so far. This came thanks to strict and swift measures, high rates of community compliance and aggressive testing and tracing. The countrys borders have been closed since March of last year, meaning there will be almost no fans from abroad at the Australian Open. More than , staff and players arriving from abroad were put into a twoweek quarantine in Melbourne, leading to complaints from some frustrated players. However, seventimes champion Serena Williams defended the mandatory quarantine procedures on Saturday. I think it was the best thing for all the players to do, the times Grand Slam champion told reporters at Melbourne Park. Even to have an opportunity to come and play was super exciting. I didnt have really any negatives. I realized that my life is one big quarantine because I dont really leave the house much. It wasnt much different than what I normally do.