Tesla raising capacity of gigafactory in Shanghai
2021/2/7 7:05
Healthcare personnel surround a patient who died inside a coronavirus disease COVID unit at United Memorial Medical Center in Houston, Texas, US, Dec , .  WASHINGTON  More than , people in the United States have died of COVID since Jan  this year as the country are ramping up vaccine rollout, according to Johns Hopkins University JHU data. The United States has more COVID deaths than any other country in the world. The country has recorded nearly . million cases with over , related deaths as of Saturday afternoon, according to the realtime count kept by JHU. An influential coronavirus model has predicted an estimated , COVID deaths in the United States by June . According to the latest forecast from the Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation IHME at the University of Washington, the result depends on the vaccine rollout and the spread of variants. A worstcase scenario could see the death toll go as high as ,. Increasing mask use from current levels of  percent to  percent can save , lives by June , according to the model. The national ensemble forecast of the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention CDC predicts that the number of newly reported COVID deaths will likely decrease over the next  weeks, with , to , new deaths likely reported in the week ending Feb . The national ensemble predicts that a total of , to , COVID deaths will be reported by Feb . COVID cases and hospitalizations are declining from recent surges across the United States, but health experts warn more contagious coronavirus strains may threaten to undo progress and lead to a resurgence. Currently the country averages over , daily cases and over , daily deaths, CDC data show. US President Joe Bidens national vaccination campaign aims to administer  million doses of twostage coronavirus vaccines in his first  days in office. Biden has called for setting up  mass vaccination centers around the country within a month. Over . million vaccine doses have been distributed across the United States as of Friday, but only about  million doses have been administered, CDC data show.