Chinas food giant reports over b yuan revenue in
2021/2/6 0:04
People wearing face masks cross a street in Hong Kong, Feb , . LO PING FAI  XINHUA Hong Kong reported a slight rebound in new COVID infections, logging  cases on Friday, bringing the citys overall tally to ,. The new infections included three imported cases C from Russia, Pakistan and Ghana C and  locally transmitted ones, Chuang Shukkwan, head of the Centre for Health Protections communicable disease branch, said at a briefing. The financial hub saw only around  new cases over the past three days. There were more than  people who tested preliminarily positive for the coronavirus, Chuang added. A preliminary positive case found during a target testing operation in Yau Ma Tei overnight was not listed as a new case as the man was a recovered COVID patient, Chuang said. He was discharged from the hospital on Jan . Among the newly confirmed patients was a man who arrived in the city from Shenzhen on Jan  and developed symptoms on Jan , Chuang said. The business traveler who was exempt from mandatory quarantine tested negative before coming to Hong Kong. The government cordoned off areas in Yuen Long and Ma On Shan on Friday evening to carry out mandatory virus testing for residents there. The targeted areas are Fu Loy Garden in Yuen Long and Heng Kong House at Heng On Estate in Ma On Shan. The government will set up temporary specimen collection stations at the restricted areas and request people subject to compulsory testing there to get tested before  am Saturday. Doortodoor specimen collection will be arranged for people with impaired mobility and seniors, according to a government statement. The government aims to finish the operations by around  am Saturday. In another development, a yearold man who fled the hospital when being treated for COVID, pleaded guilty at Kowloon City Magistrates Courts and was jailed for six months on Friday. Li Wankeung was admitted to Queen Elizabeth Hospital on Dec  last year after testing positive for the virus. The unemployed escaped from the hospital on Dec  and was brought back by police officers two days later. Deputy Magistrate Tobias Cheng Yunchung said Lis behavior was very selfish and may give rise to new outbreaks, and therefore, leniency would not be considered.