COFCO alliances help deliver goods in battle against epidemic
2021/2/6 0:00
Restaurants are catering to more cautious diners amid the COVID outbreak by offering Lunar New Year reunion dinner deliveries and tightening control over food safety. Reunion dinners are traditionally held on Lunar New Years Eve, which falls on Feb  this year. With the recent COVID flareups in parts of the country, people are being encouraged to avoid crowds and stay where they are over the holiday, when people traditionally return to their hometowns to reunite with the family. Sheraton Grand Wuhan Hankou Hotel in Central Chinas Hubei province has launched a Lunar New Year reunion dinner delivery service for the first time. There are two set menus to choose from priced at  yuan  and  yuan respectively, which are much lower than their original prices of , yuan and , yuan, said Yu Qiaomei, head of service at the hotels food and beverage division. As  was such a difficult year, we are offering these discounted reunion dinner packages to express our gratitude for peoples support, Yu said. The dishes are sealed in tinfoil containers and bagged in insulated packaging, Yu added. Customers within a kilometer radius of the hotel will receive their orders at their doorstep from delivery workers dressed up as caishen, the Chinese deity of wealth. ShangriLa Hotel Wuhan launched a reunion dinner delivery service on Dec . Customers less than  km away can order deliveries of reunion dinner packages by phoning the hotel or via its WeChat account. People are more cautious about hygiene when it comes to dining out during a pandemic, said Zhang Rui, general manager of the hotel. Given the limited number of private dining rooms at restaurants, having the reunion dinner at home has become a favored option. Zhang said that by sending the reunion dinner to customers doorstep, the hotel hopes to bring safety as well as festivity and blessings into peoples homes. The hotel will also give away gifts such as candy boxes and Lunar New Year couplets with orders. Metropark Lido Hotel Beijing has introduced the concept of having the reunion dinner at home this year and is offering partially prepared reunion dinner kits to reduce queues and gatherings, said Wang Guowei, general manager of the hotel. Having the reunion dinner at home creates a stronger bond between family members, he said. People can ring in the new year in the company of familiar food and childhood memories. Unlike reunion dinner packages for around  people offered in previous years, the hotel this year is focusing on smaller kits designed for three to six people. These semiprepared meal boxes are a bit like readytoeat takeouts and suit the needs of small families, Wang said. Delivery options favored Restaurants have seen robust growth in orders for delivered reunion dinners and a decline in dinein reservations in the leadup to the Lunar New Year. Yu of Sheraton Grand Wuhan Hankou said the hotel has recorded a  percent increase in bookings for delivered reunion dinner packages compared with the same period last year. Some customers considered canceling dinein bookings in the wake of recent outbreaks. But most of them switched to takeout options when they learned that delivery service is available, Yu said. Without giving an exact number, Yu said bookings for reunion dinner takeouts have far exceeded expectations. However, Yu added that reservations for private dining rooms have gone down compared with the same period last year. We have received virtually zero orders from big companies because people are being discouraged from holding gatherings of more than  people. Wanda Vista Shenyang, in Northeast Chinas Liaoning province, has seen a sizable decline in reservations for dinein reunion dinners. As of Monday, the dinein reunion dinner reservations it had received were less than  percent of that from the same period last year, according to its food and beverage manager Tyson Liu. Chengdu Marriott Hotel Financial Centre in southeastern China has reported an approximately  percent yearonyear decrease in dinein reservations. Banquet bookings have dropped over  percent on a yearly basis, said Deng Xuehui, director of food and beverage at the hotel. With customers who have backed out of reservations following recent COVID outbreaks, KHOS Shenyang has been understanding and cooperative. We fully understand the seriousness of the situation and therefore we had no alternative but to cancel and refund all guest bookings, said Jimmy Chan, general manager of the hotel. We have kept in close contact with our guests to keep them updated on the situation and it was only when the government relaxed the restrictions have we considered reopening. Preventive measures To respond to concerns about food safety, restaurants have introduced stricter precautions for both onand offpremises dining. ShangriLa Wuhan said its staff members take daily temperature checks and disinfect tables and chairs after every seating. Delivery vehicles are also disinfected after each service. It checks the temperature and health code of walkin diners and provides them with supplies such as alcohol wipes and bags for face masks. Tables on the premises are kept . meters apart. It has also suspended the use of imported coldchain food. KHOS Shenyang has made a similar move. It has eliminated some imported food items and replaced them with locally sourced products that have a certification from the local government, said the hotel. Sheraton Grand Wuhan Hankou Hotel has assigned a hygiene inspector to check whether its kitchen staff are complying with inhouse food safety protocols. The kitchen staff have been vaccinated against COVID and receive nucleic acid tests on a regular basis. They are also required to provide their travel history every week, the hotel said. huyuyanchinadaily.com.cn Clockwise from left Sheraton Grand Wuhan Hankou Hotel has its deliverymen of Lunar New Year reunion dinner orders dressed up as caishen, the Chinese deity of wealth. A chef at ShangriLa Hotel Wuhan prepares a dish. An employee of Metropark Lido Hotel Beijing disinfects a public area at the hotel. Night view of KHOS Shenyang. Wanda Vista Shenyangs Chinese restaurant, one of prime gathering venues in the city, sees a drop in dinein reunion dinner reservations. CHINA DAILY