Liquor industry drinks to better times
2021/2/5 15:46
US President Joe Biden delivers a foreign policy address during a visit to the State Department in Washington, US, Feb , .  Editors note Andrew Korybko is a Moscowbased American political analyst. The article reflects the authors views and not necessarily those of CGTN. US President Joe Biden gave the first foreign policy speech of his tenure at the State Department on Thursday local time, which he importantly visited far earlier during his first term of office than any of his predecessors have in recent memory. This reinforced the key messages that he sent to Americas diplomats that I will have your back and We are a country that does big things, and American diplomacy makes it happen. Bidens approach to the State Department starkly differs from his predecessors, who suspected it of conspiring against him so much so that the former president once provocatively described it as the Deep State Department. The vision that President Biden outlined is one where alliances, democracy, and values predominate in order to restore Americas place in the world. He mentioned his efforts to rebuild the USs alliances several times during his minute speech. The th president regards alliances as his countrys greatest asset and promised that itll lead with diplomacy. Emphasizing this, he declared that the US will lead not by the example of its power, but the power of its example as inspired by its democracy and values. Both of these must first start at home so that the USs diplomacy can earn credibility abroad. He took some implied swipes at former President Trump when criticizing the institutional and international messes that he inherited, which strongly hinted that his predecessors authoritarian leadership style. President Biden was very direct in his ambition to confront what he described as Chinas many abuses across the world, including in the economic, human rights, intellectual rights, and global governance spheres. According to him, America will compete with China from a position of strength in full coordination with its allies. Regarding Russia, President Biden praised the deal that his administration reached with it to extend the New START for another five years, which he highlighted as an example of the US working together with its adversaries when their interests, especially global ones, align. Nevertheless, he thundered that the US will not roll over in the face of what he called Russian aggression across a host of domains, including his countrys domestic political process. President Biden also demanded that Russia release Alexei Navalny, an anticorruption blogger who was recently jailed because of his prior probation violations. These policies, President Biden believes, correspond with American values, as do his decisions to end all US support for offensive operations in Yemen together with halting relevant arms deals. Concerning the first of these landmark policy steps, he assured Saudi Arabia that the US will continue to defend it against what he described as Iranian threats to its territorial integrity. About the second one, President Biden said that the US wont tolerate other countries discriminating against people with those identities, let alone physically harming them. Altogether, the USs new foreign policy prioritizing alliances, democracy, and values actually isnt as positive of a development as its first impression might have suggested. Multilateralism is being manipulated to maximize the USs power attempted to contain China and Russia. The announced but asyet unscheduled Summit of Democracies will likely be exploited for the purpose of assembling a global alliance of states against the USs two primary strategic competitors. In other words, President Biden is just using highsounding rhetoric to mask his aggressive foreign policy intentions. Its of course welcome that he wants to promote a political solution to the longstanding Yemeni War, but this is more about simple pragmatism since the USs Saudi and Emirati allies have failed to achieve their goal of dislodging the Ansarullah. Their devastating war is directly responsible for the worlds worst humanitarian crisis. Observers therefore shouldnt be misled by President Bidens words. Hes actually planning to be even more aggressive than former President Trump was, who was uncharacteristically direct for an American leader about his countrys interests and didnt disguise them with rhetoric about democracy or values. The current presidents desire to reinvigorate Americas alliances might sound good in principle, but only if it isnt abused for attempting to contain China and Russia or meddling in other countries sovereign affairs. With all of this in mind, President Bidens speech was a clear message that American aggression wont end anytime soon.