Lynk  Co opens first European showroom
2021/2/5 11:50
Kansas City Chiefs outside linebacker Damien Wilson during practice as they prepare for Super Bowl against the Tampa Bay Buccaneers in Kansas City, US on Feb , .  Super Bowl Sunday, normally a day bubbling with excitement across the US and overseas, will be quite different this year. The championship game of the National Football League NFL, which features the Tampa Bay Buccaneers versus the Kansas City Chiefs, will not be played before a capacity crowd because of social distancing measures due to the coronavirus pandemic. There will be , fans  and , cardboard cutouts  in attendance at Raymond James Stadium in Tampa, Florida, for the  pm ET game Sunday, the NFL announced Tuesday. The stadiums regular capacity is ,. The NFL is providing all , fans with these free PPE kits upon arrival at the stadium for SBLV. All personnel and fans, including the , vaccinated health care heroes who are receiving free tickets from the NFL, will be required to wear face coverings through the game, NFL spokesman Brian McCarthy tweeted Tuesday. The New England Patriots team plane, dubbed the AirKraft, will fly  healthcare workers to the game as part of an allexpensespaid trip from team owner Robert Kraft. The workers were chosen from the six New England states. They will board from the same hangar at Logan Airport that received the plane in April when it returned from a mission to China with . million N protective masks. Last April, when our plane returned with masks from China, we never could have imagined the devastation this pandemic would cause, nor could we have dreamed of the heroic stories and achievements that have come to be as a result, especially the dedication of health care workers on the front lines and the creation of safe and effective vaccines, Kraft said in a statement. This will be Super Bowl LV, or , as the game has always used Roman numerals to make it stand out. Tampa Bay quarterback Tom Brady previously played in nine Super Bowls with the Patriots, winning six, easily the most NFL titles of any quarterback. Brady, , is considered the leagues GOAT greatest of all time quarterback. The Chiefs, the defending Super Bowl champions, are led by quarterback Patrick Mahomes. If anyone can someday challenge Bradys Super Bowl ring collection, it could be the yearold Mahomes. Twenty, , ,  years from now, this is the game people are going to go back to, said football commentator Tony Romo, himself a former NFL quarterback, who will be in the broadcast booth for CBS on Sunday. It also will be the first time that the quarterbacks who won the previous two Super Bowls will square off, as Brady led the Patriots to victory two years ago over the Los Angeles Rams in Super Bowl LIII . The Buccaneers, coincidentally, will have the home field advantage. No other team has ever played at home in the Super Bowl. The game sites are chosen years in advance and played in recurring, usually warmer or indoor locations, such as in Louisiana, Florida, California, Texas and Arizona. The Chiefs played in the first Super Bowl in , losing  to the Green Bay Packers. The game was played at the Los Angeles Memorial Coliseum, a cavernous stadium that opened in , and in , will host the Summer Olympics for a third time. The attendance for Super Bowl I was ,, the smallest crowd for the big game  until this year. Back then, you could show up on game day and buy a ticket for . Security measures in todays world, along with ticket inflation, would preclude such carefree activity. Super Bowl ticket prices now run into the tens of thousands of dollars. On Thursday, they ranged on StubHub.com from about , a seat for the upper deck to , for the best fieldlevel seats. The price range was lower than Wednesdays. The live Pepsi halftime show should provide plenty of excitement as usual, as Grammy Awardwinning singer The Weeknd will perform. But different in tone will be the commercials  which some viewers care more about than the game  and which CBS is charging . million per  seconds of ad time. The original Budweiser beer, which had been a mainstay of Super Bowl commercials for  years, will not have an ad Sunday, although parent AnheuserBusch InBev will feature some other brands. CocaCola, GoDaddy, Hyundai and Walmart also called a timeout on their commercials. With COVID and economic uncertainty, people arent necessarily in the best mood to begin with, said Charles Taylor, marketing professor at Villanova University. Theres a risk associated with messages that are potentially too light. ... At the same time, theres risk associated with doing anything too somber. Amazon, DoorDash, Chipotle and Uber Eats, companies that have done well during the pandemic, will run commercials, as will Robinhood, the stocktrading platform that has been at the center of the recent GameStop trading frenzy. The Robinhood spot was filmed before the controversy. Facebook, Google and Microsoft also will have ads. Some other likely changes across the country include those boisterous Super Bowl parties usually replete with buffalo wings, nachos and beer  and quite a few betting pools. A lot of that wagering is expected to move online, with the American Gaming Association estimating a record . million Americans will bet with online sportsbooks, up  percent. But the gettogethers figure to be subdued this year because of restrictions on large gatherings. You dont want parties with people that you havent had much contact with, Dr Anthony Fauci told NBCs Today show on Wednesday. You just dont know if theyre infected, so, as difficult as that is, at least this time around, just lay low and cool it. Less people will be talking about the Super Bowl at the office on Monday morning, because theyre not going to be in the office, Jonah Berger, a marketing professor at the Wharton School, told The New York Times. Despite all the preconditions, it still comes down to football, and it should be an entertaining game. Agencies contributed to this story.