HKPTU on criminal path if it keeps poisoning students
2021/2/4 14:01
Chongqing C Have you ever watched the film Extremely Loud and Incredibly Close starring Tom Hanks and Sandra Bullock? Well, this winterspring tour season for locals and those who have to stay put in the municipality during the Spring Festival holiday has nothing to do with the film. However, you still wouldnt want to miss it for the world, because this is definitely one of those onceinalifetime opportunities. Qin Dingbo, deputy director of the Municipal Culture and Tourism Development Commission, announces the official launching of the tour season. According to an official with the Municipal Culture and Tourism Development Commission, the peripheral counties and districts of Chongqing, especially those in the northeastern and southeastern areas, are to launch various tour season activities and events for Chongqing locals, expats, and those from other places yet choose to spend the Spring Festival holiday within the municipality. The move is part of efforts to respond to the nationwide antiepidemic campaign of asking citizens to stay put during what couldve become the worlds largest human migration period, or Chunyun. The Stromatolite and Blossom Valley in Youyang Tujia and Miao autonomous county. The extremely beautiful and incredibly close themed tour season will last from February to May this year, including a major subevent called spending the lunar new year of folk cultures in southeast Chongqing, and coinciding with the ongoing Daka Bayu  Sceneries all media tour promotion event. Tourists experience the worlds first BASE jumping through the Three Natural Bridges in Wulong District. The southeastern counties and districts of Wulong, Pengshui, Qianjiang, Youyang, Xiushan, and Shizhu are hailed as Chinas First Tourism Corridor Area for the unique Tujia and Miao ethnic cultures and the ecological tourism belt in the Wuling Mountain area. There are one world natural heritage site, four national AAAAA level scenic areas, and  national AAAA level scenic areas, said Su Huiyong, vice mayor of Wulong District. File photo of the Stone Fall inside the Furong Cave featuring unique karst landscape. During the holiday tour season, Wulongs Furong Cave scenic spot will waive all entrance fees, Qianjiangs Zhuoshui and Urban Grand Valley scenic spots will offer  discount. Xiushans Chuanhegai Cableway scenic spot will offer a buy five get one free discount for entrance fees, Youyangs Peach Blossom Valley will offer a  discount for entrance fees, and Shizhus Xituo Ancient Town scenic spot will also waive all entrance fees. Visitors test nerves at the thrilling cliff edge swing of Fantasy Ordovician in Wansheng District. Whats more, Nanchuans Jinfo Mountain scenic spot, Yongchuans Leheledu scenic spot, Qijiangs Laoying Mountain scenic spot, Wanshengs Black Mountain Valley, Fengdus Dakini Mountain Ski Resort, Wanzhous Qifang Flower Valley, Yubeis Tongjing Hot Spring scenic spot, and Jiangjins Simian Mountain Scenic spot have all offer discounts to local citizens, expats, and visitors from certain provinces and cities. The Wanzhou Grand Waterfall, which has been hailed as Asias No. Waterfall, in northeast Chongqings Wanzhou District. Its worth noting that most of those preferential policies during the extremely beautiful and incredible close themed tour season require visitors to go through a realname verification and health code checking process. So, please dont forget to bring your ID or passport with you and always remember to wear a mask, especially when visiting places of frequent customer flow. Officials, guests, and tourists take a group photo before they depart for the holiday tour season.