How will Chinas exports sustain growth momentum in ?
2021/2/4 10:51
An aerial view of Beibu Gulf Port in Qinzhou, Guangxi Zhuang autonomous region.  BEIJING  For Chinese exporters, the business environment last year was reminiscent of an action movie. It opened with a sudden halt, followed by efforts to cope by expanding the domestic market or switching to the manufacture of epidemiccontrol equipment, and then ended with rocketing overseas orders and a shortage of containers. Customs data shows that Chinas exports managed a percent yearly increase in , despite the turbulence, with the total export value reaching . trillion yuan . trillion. In December alone, exports surged by . percent yearonyear in yuan terms. As the new year gets underway, it is worth watching to see whether such dark horse export performance continues into , and how Chinas foreigntrade landscape evolves. Chinas foreign trade is expected to maintain steady growth this year, with its scale continuing to expand, according to Liang Ming, a researcher with the Chinese Academy of International Trade and Economic Cooperation. Liang noted that the countrys foreign trade reached several historic highs in , despite the headwinds, providing a good basis for its performance in . China remained the worlds largest trading nation in goods last year. Over the first  months of , Chinas exports reached a record high of . percent of the global total, figures from the countrys customs administration show. The unexpected export boom was mainly driven by Chinas position as the first country in and out of the COVID epidemic, with industrial production rebounding quickly, combined with the countrys advantages in industrial chains, according to a research report by CITIC Securities. Dubbed the worlds factory, China has been the only country that possesses all the industrial categories listed in the United Nations industrial classification. A recent report from Alibabas crossborder BB trade platform offered vivid details about the diversity of Chinese exports. Foreign buyers chased after a variety of Chinese products amid the pandemic, ranging from maskproduction machinery to workfromhome electronic products, and even wigs and paper diapers. Looking ahead, the brokerage company took a positive view on Chinas export performance in , predicting that an overall demand recovery, driven by vaccine availability and stimulus policies, will lead to an increase in the countrys exports. Moreover, new business models such as crossborder ecommerce have emerged as new drivers of Chinas foreign trade. The latest data shows that Chinas crossborder ecommerce business saw rapid expansion in , with the aggregate importexport volume surging by . percent from a year ago. The total number of overseas warehouses has surpassed ,, with a sharp increase of  percent in . However, the future is still not rosy for Chinas foreign trade, as the world continues to grapple with resurgences of COVID cases. The purchasing managers index for Chinas manufacturing sector came in at . in January, edging down . percentage points from December. The subindex for new export orders dropped to . percent in January from . percent a month earlier. Yet, the impact of COVID resurgences on Chinas industrial production may be largely neutral, according to a research note from Huatai Securities, with the decision of many migrant workers to stay put during the Spring Festival likely resulting in an earlierthanusual resumption schedule after the holiday this year. In this context, the precautionary measures may even benefit the productivity of Chinas export sector, where orders have been piling up for the next three to six months, the research note added.