Trumps trade war on China a failure in every possible way Axios reports
2021/2/4 9:50
Chinese ski resorts are reporting brisk business, with snow sports continuing to grow in popularity one year out from the  Beijing Winter Olympics. XINHUA For trendy Chinese urbanites, grabbing a snowboard and hitting the slopes ranks high on the list of the most fashionable ways to spend a weekend. The popularity of winter sports in China has grown dramatically in recent years, fueled by a nationwide participation push in the buildup to the  Winter Olympics in Beijing and Zhangjiakou, Hebei province. According to Economic Daily, Zhangjiakous Chongli district has invested about  billion yuan . billion in its winter sports tourism sector in the space of just five years. Chongli now boasts seven fully functional ski resorts, along with over  hotels and apartment complexes, and  ski runs totaling . kilometers in length. With the improvement of services, the sector was showing strong growth before the COVID pandemic struck. Ticket sales in Chongli surpassed the onemillion mark in , while in the same year admissions reached . million. Chinas skiing and snowboarding population is growing fast. From the perspective of consumption, demand is changing from just experiencing winter sports to making them a lifestyle choice, Zhou Wenqian, president of Thaiwoo Ski Resort in Chongli, told China Daily. Chinas investment in winter sports extends to indoor ice facilities, encouraging young people to give activities like curling a try. XINHUA Previously, skiing and snowboarding were not popular sports in China. But with the arrival of the Beijing Winter Olympics and a series of highlevel international meets, more people have been attracted to these sports. Also, the education system is facilitating school kids involvement in winter sports. That brings massive market potential for the sector. I believe in just about three to five years, even after the Beijing Winter Olympics, Chinas ice and snow population will keep growing. According to the  ice and snow industry development plan approved by the State Council, China expects to have  million people participating in winter sports regularly, with the sector projected to be worth  trillion yuan by . Its certainly a lucrative business, with consumers increasingly willing to splash out to look and feel good on the slopes. I started snowboarding in , and each year Ive spent , to , yuan on the sport, Chongli regular and Beijing office worker Mei Shuyao told China Daily. My expenditure depends on how far I travel to enjoy it. Its more expensive for me to go to Chongli or some other places further away than going to ski resorts in Beijing. But compared with the true hardcore snowboarders, Im just one of those on a small budget. Of all my equipment, my snowboard is the most expensive item. My clothes and boots are pretty affordable, but its all worth it. After all, its a sport that brings you a great sense of achievement. Mei said a trip to a Beijing ski resort would typically set him back  yuan for gas and about  yuan for tickets. An excursion to Chongli would usually add up to about , yuan for Mei, including gas, tickets, a hotel room and meals. This year, Meis spending on his hobby increased after he persuaded his girlfriend, Li Xiaojing, to join him on the mountains. Chinas budding skiers are increasingly inclined to splash out on services such as coaching when they visit resorts. XINHUA I only started snowboarding in  because of my boyfriend. It felt so cool when I saw him speeding down the ski runs, said Li. So far Ive spent about , yuan on equipment, apart from the stuff he Mei got me as gifts. Those are pretty expensive. But Ive started, so I need to keep doing it. To meet the demand generated by the likes of Mei and Li, Zhangjiakou has built two winter sports equipment industrial parks, where units are being quickly filled by manufacturers. The rapid development of the winter sports sector will boost the growth of equipment manufacturing. We should pay attention to this trend and facilitate its development, Zhangjiakous mayor, Wu Weidong, told Economic Daily. Tourism is also benefiting. According to  China Ice and Snow Tourism Development Report, published by the China Tourism Academy in early January, Chinas winter sports attractions are expected to attract  million visits in , with revenue totaling over  billion yuanpresuming the COVID pandemic is under control. With that in mind, resorts are continuing to employ strict health and safety measures. Wanlong Paradise Resort, for example, requires travelers from lowrisk areas to show their health QR code, have their body temperature checked and to wear face masks, while travelers from mediumrisk areas must provide a negative COVID test result to gain admittance.