China, New Zealand upgrade FTA deal
2021/2/4 0:00
The countylevel city of Anning in Southwest Chinas Yunnan province is building on the achievements made in social welfare and other areas in , with the government releasing its goals for  recently. With the outbreak of COVID in , its prevention and control moved quickly to the top of the city governments agenda, closely followed by financial aid for those hardest hit by the pandemic, poverty alleviation and improved community governance. The city responded quickly to the pandemic early last year, procuring  metric tons of disinfectant and , disposable medical masks, as well as providing subsidies worth , yuan , to nursing homes for the elderly. Relief funds worth more than . million yuan were granted, benefiting , people in need, according to the government. To help people cope better with the pandemic and encourage a resurgence in consumer spending, the city gave out , discount vouchers worth a total of , yuan. As a smaller city under the jurisdiction of Yunnan capital Kunming, Anning has seen many of its residents work in Kunming or other cities around the country, so the Anning government placed a great emphasis on child welfare in . The city founded  institutions to help care for leftbehind and migrant children last year, creating a total of  such institutions. At the other end of the spectrum, Anning improved its eldercare services, opening two new home care service centers, three canteens, and six activity centers and adding  beds to elderly care homes. The city now has  beds per , elderly people and is listed as a pilot comprehensive reform area for the elderly care service industry in Yunnan province. Liang Yong, deputy director of Annings civil affairs bureau, which focuses on improving social welfare across a wide range of aspects, said the governments work is continuing in  with the aim of further improving social development. The civil affairs bureau will further reform and innovate to create more efficient measures to support the citys highquality development, Liang said. In , the city will establish a highquality hygiene and health service system to boost the capabilities of inspection, early warning and prediction and emergency diagnoses of infectious diseases. Anning will improve three online prevention and control systems, covering the monitoring of infectious diseases, public health and hygiene as well as health management. A greater emphasis will also be placed on physical examinations of all residents and the establishment of electronic health records. The city will set up and improve on a residents health information database and online service platform. Construction will be completed on  kindergartens this year in Annings villages and more resources will be allotted to underdeveloped subdistricts, according to the government. The city will also build eight community service centers for the elderly and renovate three seniors activity centers in . Living subsidies worth  million yuan will be provided to the citys senior citizens. On the employment front, more jobs will be created, according to the government, along with its continued aim of attracting and training more professionals. More than  million yuan in relief funding will be paid out to over , residents in most need, the government said. Additionally, the city will continue to improve conditions in all urban and rural areas, create a cloud platform for government publicity and cultural activities and develop Annings unique cultural identity. songmengxingchinadaily.com.cn Bins for garbage sorting are used at a community in Anning. CHINA DAILY