Rocky weekend in US for jabs after protests and Guantanamo reversal
2021/2/2 0:00
The US coronavirus vaccine landscape was rocked by controversy over the weekend as a group in Los Angeles disrupted a vaccination site, while the Pentagon walked back a plan to vaccinate detainees at Guantanamo Bay, including the alleged mastermind of the  terrorist attacks. Antivaccination protesters carried signs on Saturday outside a vaccination site at Dodger Stadium in Los Angeles, California, that read Save your soul, turn back now, Take off your mask, and Recall Gavin Newsom referring to the states governor. Los Angeles City Council President Nury Martinez tweeted on Saturday Unbelievable. If you dont want the vaccine fine, but there are millions of Angelenos that do. , of your neighbors have died, so get out of the way. The Los Angeles Times reported that the stadium temporarily shut down on Saturday because dozens of protesters blocked the entrance, stalling hundreds of motorists who had been waiting in line for hours. Officials say the Los Angeles Fire Department shut the entrance to the vaccination center at Dodger Stadium about  pm as a precaution. The protesters had members of antivaccine and farright groups. There were no incidents of violence. By Monday, California had more than . million confirmed coronavirus cases with more than , deaths, data from Johns Hopkins University showed. The US had more than . million cases with more than , deaths. The US Navy base at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, houses some  detainees in the US war on terror, including top alQaida figure Khalid Sheikh Mohammed, alleged planner of the Sept , , terrorist attacks. An order signed last week by Terry Adirim, the principal deputy assistant secretary of defense for health affairs, said vaccines would be offered to all detainees and prisoners at Guantanamo. But on Saturday, Pentagon spokesman John Kirby tweeted No Guantanamo detainees have been vaccinated. Were pausing the plan to move forward, as we review force protection protocols. We remain committed to our obligations to keep our troops safe. Thomas Von Essen, who was New York Citys fire commissioner during , told the New York Post You cant make this up. The ridiculousness of what we get from our government. Giving out vaccines House Republican leader Kevin McCarthy of California tweeted President Biden told us he would have a plan to defeat the virus on day . He just never told us that it would be to give the vaccine to terrorists before most Americans. A top infectious disease expert said on Sunday the US needs to rush giving out the first doses of the COVID vaccine before an anticipated Category  hurricanelike surge in cases. Michael Osterholm, who was an adviser to Joe Bidens transition team, said Sunday that even one dose could lessen the impact of an outbreak driven by new virus strains. We still want to get two doses in everyone, but I think right now, in advance of this surge, we need to get as many onedoses in as many people over  as we possibly can, Osterholm, director of the Center for Infectious Disease Research and Policy at the University of Minnesota, told NBCs Meet the Press. The Biden administration is reportedly searching for  million doses of vaccine, which were sent to states and have been unaccounted for, a report on news portal Politico said. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said it has distributed almost  million doses to the states, but only a little more than . million have been administered. Data released on Sunday said white New Yorkers have received the vaccine at a to ratio compared with black recipients, and a to ratio compared with Asian and Hispanic recipients. The information we do have shows a clear disparity, said Mayor Bill de Blasio during a City Hall news briefing on Sunday. What we see is a particularly pronounced reality of many more people from white communities getting vaccinations than folks from black and Latino communities. Weve got a profound problem of distrust and hesitancy, particularly in communities of color, the mayor said. Agencies contributed to this story. hengweilichinadailyusa.com Drivers on Saturday enter the parking lot of the Dodger Stadium in Los Angeles, where a vaccination center has been set up. Antivaccine protesters forced a temporary halt to services that day. DAMIAN DOVARGANESAP