Countries tighten curbs, Biden stiffens mask rules
2021/2/1 10:01
Federal police officers check an air passenger arriving from Britain at the Frankfurt Airport, as the spread of the coronavirus disease COVID continues, in Frankfurt, Germany, Jan , .  PARISA number of countries tightened their borders against a surge in variant strains of the deadly coronavirus as the United States ordered travelers to wear masks on most public transport. By Sunday there were more than . million confirmed cases worldwide with more than . million deaths, Johns Hopkins University said. Against the backdrop of rising cases, countries are tightening travel restrictions to try to rein in the spread of new more contagious strains of the coronavirus. Germany has banned most travelers from countries hit by the new contagious variants to prevent a surge in infection numbers. The move, set to last until Feb , affects people coming from Brazil, Britain, Ireland, Portugal and South Africa, as well as the southern African kingdoms of Lesotho and Eswatini. In Canada, travelers will have to quarantine in hotels at their own expense and airlines are suspending flights to southern destinations. The US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention issued a sweeping order requiring the wearing of masks to protect against the spread of COVID on virtually every form of public transportation throughout the country. The order, issued late on Friday, extends to travel on aircraft, trains, buses, taxis, rideshares, subways, ferries and ships. It expands on one of the first executive orders US President Joe Biden signed, which required masking for interstate travel as part of a larger strategy to reduce the spread of COVID. Wearing masks on our transportation systems will protect Americans and provide confidence that we can once again travel safely even during this pandemic, the order says. Noncompliance will constitute a violation of federal law, according to the order. Exemptions to maskwearing are allowed for people eating, drinking or taking medication, as well as those communicating with the hearingimpaired. Masks can also be briefly removed during identity checks. French President Emmanuel Macron defended his decision to hold off on a third lockdown on Saturday, telling the public he had faith in their ability to rein in COVID with less severe curbs even as a third wave spreads. Police patrols increased The pavement on an empty shopping street is pictured during a nationwide curfew, from  pm to  am, due to restrictions against the spread of the coronavirus disease COVID, in Cannes, France on Jan , .  From Sunday, France closed its borders to all but essential travel to and from countries outside the European Union, while people arriving from within the bloc were to show a negative test. Large shopping malls were to shut and police patrols increased to enforce a  pm curfew. A small number of countries, however, have tentatively started to ease some of their stricter coronavirus restrictions. In Italy, the Vatican Museums, including the Sistine Chapel, said they would reopen on Monday after being closed for  daysthe longest closure since World War II. The worldfamous collections will open their doors to the public from Monday to Saturday, but visitors must prebook tickets for specifically timed entry slots. The Popes Museums await you with pleasure, a statement said. In Norway, the government said a number of restrictions in Oslo and the surrounding region would be lifted next week. Shops would be able to reopen in the capital and  nearby municipalities from Wednesday, as would restaurants, but a ban on the sale of alcohol would remain in place. Agencies  Xinhua