France imposes stricter restrictions to avoid new lockdown
2021/1/30 10:48
French Prime Minister Jean Castex puts on his protective face mask after delivering a speech following a meeting, amid the outbreak of the coronavirus disease COVID, at the Elysee Palace in Paris, France, January , .  PARIS  We will do everything we can to avoid a new lockdown, said French Prime Minister Jean Castex on Friday when announcing a new raft of tighter restrictions including border control to contain COVID. Speaking after a defense council on the epidemic, Castex admitted that the question of confinement is a legitimate one as the development of the virus variants poses a high risk of accelerating the epidemic. But we know the very heavy impact of lockdown for French people. We believe that we can still give ourselves a chance to avoid it, he said. In a bid to complement a nightly curfew, which produces real effects but insufficient, France would close borders to nonEuropean Union countries except for essential travel starting from Sunday. Any entry into France and any exit from our territory to or from a country outside the European Union will be prohibited, unless there is a compelling reason, from  on Sunday, he said. All visitors from other EU nations would have to show a negative PCR polymerase chain reaction test except for crossborder workers, Castex said. Nonfood shopping malls with a surface area of more than , square meters will be closed, and police controls will be intensified against people breaking the curfew and testing will be reinforced, he added. Our duty is to do everything possible to avoid a new confinement and the coming days will be decisive, Castex said. Lets be very vigilant. France went into a strict national lockdown from March  to May   to contain the first wave of the epidemic. From the end of October to midDecember, a less strict lockdown was put in place. On Jan.  , the curfew in force since midDecember was brought forward by two hours. Since the start of the COVID outbreak, France has lost , people to the virus, the seventh highest death toll in the world, with  new deaths recorded in the past  hours alone, the countrys health authority said on Friday. Also in the  hours, the country registered , new infections, taking the caseload to ,,. The number of patients hospitalized went up by  to ,, with the number of those in intensive care increasing by  to ,. Like other European countries, France also faces delays in deliveries of vaccines like PfizerBioNTech and Moderna. The government predicted that in February only one million people would receive the first of two necessary vaccine doses, after more than . million in January. As the world is struggling to contain the pandemic, vaccination is underway in some countries with the alreadyauthorized coronavirus vaccines. Meanwhile,  candidate vaccines are still being developed worldwide   of them in clinical trials  in countries including Germany, China, Russia, Britain and the United States, according to information released by the World Health Organization on Jan. .