Latest on the COVID pandemic
2021/10/18 9:24
Englands manager Gareth Southgate watches his players from the touchline during the FIFA World Cup  qualifying match between England and Hungary at Wembley Stadium in London on Oct , .  For all the improvements made by England under Gareth Southgate  and reaching the World Cup semifinals and European Championship final suggests there are manyone major problem has been holding the team back. Finding the right balance in Englands central midfield is an issue that predates Southgate. Who, for example, can forget that longrunning debate over whether Frank Lampard and Steven Gerrard could play together in the early s? Fastforward a few years and the current England team hasnt got that worldclass quality of Gerrard, Lampard and Paul Scholes as centermidfield options. Instead, Southgate has a few solid, hardworking players sprinkled with some potential stars of the future who are still learning their trade in a number of different positions. Getting the right mix is proving problematic. With Englands conservative midfield being overrun by Croatia in the World Cup semifinals in  and Italy in the Euro  final, there has been a clamor to get more cultured players in the midfield three to give the team a chance of retaining possession better against top opposition. So when Southgate selected a central midfield consisting of Declan Rice as the anchorman behind two attacking No s in yearold Mason Mount and yearold Phil Foden for last weeks World Cup qualifier against Hungary, there was a sense of anticipation. Was this the dawn of a new exciting era for England heading into next years World Cup in Qatar? Well, no. In fact, it was a reality check. England produced one of its most disjointed and sterile displays under Southgate in a  draw at Wembley Stadium that punctured some of the optimism that has been built up around the team. Mount and Foden, who often play in the front three for Chelsea and Manchester City, respectively, were positionally illdisciplined, leaving Rice without support and at times overrun. A team better than thranked Hungary would have made more of their opportunities on the break. We werent in contact with them Hungary on our pressure, which gave them a little comfort in the game, Southgate said of his midfield experiment. We gave needless passes away which led to counterattacks that give the feeling you are stretched. Manchester City manager Pep Guardiola isnt ready to play Fodenwidely regarded as the big hope of English socceras a central midfielder, saying he needs to develop as a player and have more control in his game to play at different tempos. That was highlighted against Hungary, where some neat touches and throughballs failed to mask his tactical and positional naivety. The same was true for Mount, who mostly plays as a No  for Chelsea ahead of two experienced holding midfielders like NGolo Kante and Jorginho. The fact that Southgate has resisted playing this attacking midfield setup to this pointand acknowledged it didnt work against Hungarywill likely see him go back to the drawing board. That should mean an immediate return to the team for Kalvin Phillips, the deeplying Leeds midfielder who was missing because of injury and was described by Southgate after the game as an essential part of our midfield. Jordan Henderson, the Liverpool captain, is another option, even if he hasnt started for England for some time. The RicePhillips axis gives England more solidity and is one of the reasons why the defense has been so impressive in recent years. But does that combination give England enough quality to compete with the biggest teams like Italy, whose midfield dominated the Euro  final, or Spain or France? They are the kind of countries whose level England aspires to reach. Jude Bellingham could yet fit the bill as the kind of allaround midfielder England has needed, but the Borussia Dortmund player is only  and wasnt called up in this international window to manage his workload. He is still a work in progress. England just doesnt have the quality of midfielder to compare with players like Jorginho and Marco Verratti Italy, Kante and Paul Pogba France, and Pedri and Sergio Busquets Spain. Southgate must therefore find the right balance to make up for an inferior level of individual talent. Its his biggest task ahead of the World Cup. Agencies via Xinhua