AMC Theatres hopeful after cash infusion
2021/1/27 12:04
An AMC Theatres logo hangs above one of the companys movie theaters shuttered by the coronavirus COVID in Rosemont, Illinois on Dec , .  The worlds largest movietheater company has managed to avoid bringing the curtain down on its business. AMC Entertainment Holdings Inc, which operates the AMC Theatres chain in the US, announced Monday that since Dec , it has raised or signed commitment letters to receive  million of new equity and debt capital. The company says the funding will help it stave off bankruptcy in an economy depleted by the coronavirus and subsequent shutdowns. In its statement, the company, which now has raised more than  billion from April through November, said it was optimistic business would rebound now that COVID vaccines are being administered. AMC had previously warned investors that bankruptcy was a possibility if the company failed to replenish its cash position by selling stock. It operates some , theaters and , screens worldwide. The company, based in Leawood, Kansas, was acquired by Chinas Dalian Wanda Group in  for . billion, at the time the largest acquisition by a Chinese private enterprise of an American company. Wanda holds about  percent of voting rights in AMC through ownership of all the companys supervoting Class B shares. The Beijingbased conglomerate moved to upgrade the AMC theater experience with features such as reclining seats, improved food service and better sound systems and projection, such as IMAX and Dolby Cinema. In the release announcing the new funding Monday. AMC CEO and President Adam Aron said, the sun is shining on AMC. AMC estimated that after the cash infusion, its financial runway has been extended deep into . AMC also is presuming that it will continue to make progress in its talks with theater landlords about the amounts and timing of lease payments owed. This means that any talk of an imminent bankruptcy for AMC is completely off the table, said Aron, known for his brash, disruptive approach to a vintage industry. AMC was founded in . What separates successful leaders from unsuccessful leaders is boldness, and I have always tried to be the opposite of timid, to fundamentally change a company or an industry for the better, Aron told The New York Times in an interview published Friday. Aron, , also is a coowner of the NBAs Philadelphia ers and previously has run Norwegian Cruise Line and Vail Resorts. As of Jan ,  of AMCs  US theaters and  of its  international theaters were open, with extensive masking, distancing and cleaning measures in place. Not included in the reopenings yet are theaters in the top two markets  New York City and Los Angeles. All AMC theaters were closed from March through June this year. Given the push to vaccinate the general population, an increase in cinema attendance seems likely, although AMC notes that no one knows for sure the future course of this and other strains of the coronavirus, and therefore thoughts as to future cash needs of AMC are uncertain. Investors are cautioned accordingly, the company said. Investors seem undeterred for now, as they sent shares of AMC up  cents, or . percent to . in New York Stock Exchange trading on Tuesday. It was only on Jan  that the reeling theater chain saw its stock hit a week low of .. Looking ahead, for AMC to succeed over the medium term, we are going to need for much of the general public in the US and abroad to be vaccinated, Aron said. Aron expressed similar sentiments in an interview with Variety. I think we will find out that the health statistics in the United States will be much improved if even a third of the population is vaccinated, he said. I do think were going to need to see substantial vaccination in the US, but not as much vaccination as has been brandished about publicly to see improvements in the US economy and consumer behavior overall. While the pandemic dealt a near fatal blow, movie theaters in the US also have had to compete for several years with streaming services such as Netflix and Amazon Prime Video, and with the proliferation of increasingly larger, flatscreen smart TVs. And now for about a year, those services have benefited from what amount to captive audiences of athome viewers. Then there was the stark announcement by Warner Bros studios in December that it would release its entire  movie slate simultaneously to theaters and on its HBO Max streaming service, a move vociferously opposed by Aron. Still, it wasnt that long ago  in the prepandemic year of   that theaters worldwide took in a record . billion at the box office, according to the Motion Picture Association. In the first nine months of , AMC lost . billion. But with people having been mostly cooped up for about a year, nostalgic trips to the theater could be what AMC needs to flourish again.