Divisiveness, politicization of pandemic in US is key lesson to learn top immunologist
2021/1/27 11:25
NIH National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases Director Anthony Fauci addresses the daily press briefing at the White House in Washington, US Jan , . GENEVA  Top US immunologist said on Monday that in the US, one of the key lessons from the current COVID outbreak is the challenges of the divisiveness and politicization of the health crisis. It makes it extremely problematic to address a public health crisis when youre in the middle of divisiveness in the country, Anthony S. Fauci, Director of the US National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, said at the first day of the World Economic Forum WEF Davos Agenda meeting. When public health issues become politically charged  like wearing a mask or not becomes a political statement  you cant imagine how destructive that is to any unified public health message, he said. Saying that under the US federalist system, different states handled the pandemic differently, Fauci told the audience that the country needs a coordinated approach between the federal government and states. You have  states and territories, each of which are given a degree of flexibility of doing things their own way. The federal government doesnt want to tell the states what to do, he said. Fauci added that this situation will result in a disparate inconsistent response from one state to the other, which is antithetical to the fact that the virus is the same, and it doesnt know the difference between different states. We needed to have a good cooperation between the federal government and the individual locals which we did not have, he noted. Commenting on the US announcement to remain in the World Health Organization WHO, Fauci said that global organizations like the WHO are key to ensuring preparedness for future public health risks. We need global health security, he said. We need transparency, communication, collaboration and the solidarity we all talk about. If we dont have that, it becomes, maybe not impossible but problematic, to address an emerging public health outbreak. Globally, as of  am CET on Monday, there have been ,, confirmed cases of COVID, including ,, deaths, reported to WHO. In the US, there have been so far ,, confirmed cases of COVID with , deaths, both the highest numbers among all countries worldwide.