Latest on the COVID outbreak
2021/1/27 9:16
A ChinaEurope freight train loaded with antiepidemic supplies departs from Yiwu, Zhejiang province, for Malaszewicze, Poland, on Monday, marking this years first service carrying protective materials from China to Europe. GONG XIANMINGFOR CHINA DAILY A ChinaEurope freight train loaded with antiepidemic supplies that left Yiwu, Zhejiang province, for Malaszewicze in Poland on Monday is this years first direct rail shipment of protective materials from China to Europe. The train, loaded with  containers of antiepidemic supplies and daily necessities, including masks, protective suits, syringes, hardware and auto parts, is expected to arrive in Poland in  days. Part of the cargo will then be transferred to another train for shipment to Hamburg, Germany, authorities in Yiwu said. This batch of epidemic prevention materials was purchased by Polands Zarys Pomaga Company under the commission of the Polish government, a manager with the ChinaEurope freight train service said. Since March , when the first batch of medical supplies to combat COVID was sent by rail from Yiwu to Madrid, the Spanish capital, ChinaEurope freight trains have contributed greatly to the global fight against the virus. The ChinaEurope freight train service has been hailed as a main channel through which muchneeded commodities, antiepidemic materials and daily necessities have been delivered to Europe amid the global COVID pandemic. ChinaEurope freight trains delivered , metric tons of antiepidemic materials last year to destinations including Italy, Germany, Spain, the Czech Republic, Poland, Hungary, the Netherlands and Lithuania. Du Jianbo, director of China Railway Shanghai Groups Jinhua Cargo Center, said , ChinaEurope freight trains departed from Yiwu or Jinhua last year, a yearonyear rise of  percent. Zhejiang province is the source of  ChinaEurope freight train services that carry goods to  countries in the Eurasian region. The commodities transported by the trains include hardware, textiles and clothing, auto parts, daily necessities and engineering equipment. The European Union and China are two of the biggest traders in the world. China is now the EUs second biggest trading partner, behind the United States. The EU is Chinas biggest trading partner. A record , ChinaEurope freight train trips were made in , up  percent yearonyear, according to Chinas national railway operator. It was the first year in which more than , freight train trips were made between China and Europe, China State Railway Group said. The trains transported . million containers last year, up  percent yearonyear. Cai Jingwen contributed to this story.