All aboard call for recovery should not fall on deaf ears China Daily editorial
2021/1/27 9:15
Although Yang Yang likes traveling, the Beijing resident has decided to stay at home for the upcoming Lunar New Year, or Spring Festival, which falls on Feb . The bank employee has preordered takeout from Quanjude, one of Chinas bestknown roast duck chain restaurants, for his family banquet on Lunar New Years Eve. Its the family atmosphere that matters for the celebration, the yearold said. Compared with last Lunar New Year, when their family trip to the resort province of Hainan was shortened by the COVID epidemic, Yang feels more at ease. After a years efforts in containing the spread of the virus, we have become used to life with prevention and control measures, he said. Chinese people are embracing their most important festival this year with a variety of planned celebrations, despite the recent local resurgence of the coronavirus in some areas. The Chinese mainland reported  newly confirmed COVID cases on Monday, including  locally transmitted and  arriving from outside the mainland, the National Health Commission said on Tuesday. In Wuhan, capital of Central Chinas Hubei province, festival decorations have filled the grocery shelves at Gemdale Plaza in Hongshan district. Promotional activities have started for gifts including candies, nuts, dairy products and fruit, drawing customers. Some vendors said they have been busy since early this month as an increasing number of customers came to shop in preparation for the festival. Wearing a mask, Ma Yu, from the city of Huanggang, Hubei, packed her shopping cart with oil, rice and flour. She also bought red couplets, a tradition for the festival, to decorate her apartment. My husband and I have planned to stay put given the epidemic, but the festival atmosphere should not be missed, said Ma, a clerk at a company in Wuhan. While some people like Ma have chosen to stay where they are, others are heading home while taking various precautionary measures. Guo Haotian, who works for an information technology company in Beijing, bought a train ticket home to Jincheng, Shanxi province. Its a pity that I didnt return home for the festival last year because of the epidemic, said Guo, , adding that he decided to return this year partly because a new highspeed railway has halved the time it takes to travel from Beijing to his hometown to five hours. He had a negative result from a nucleic acid test taken within seven days of his trip and will quarantine at home for  days. Although I cannot visit my friends or extended relatives, its a precious opportunity to stay with my parents, he said. To cope with the heightened transmission risk that comes with the annual mass migration, the National Health Commission is requiring people to have a negative result for COVID taken within seven days of returning to rural areas, as well as a day home quarantine upon arrival. The Ministry of Transport estimates that China will see around . billion passenger trips during the day Spring Festival travel rush starting on Thursday, up more than  percent yearonyear. Xinhua