A new play for audiences of one
2021/10/18 7:45
Old items are placed on all  seats of the theater to remind audience members of their childhoods. Photo provided to China Daily Everyone at the reunion of primary school classmates was wondering where Martin disappeared to so many years ago. And, as one attendee opens an old box of cookies, the container becomes a memory box of their own, full of childhood memories. This is a scene from the experimental drama Being and Time . that premiered at the Guangzhou Opera House in Guangdong provinces capital city. The performance was one of  selected plays, dance dramas and operas performed during the recently ended Guangzhou Art Season. The work is inspired by German philosopher Martin Heideggers masterpiece, Being and Time, in which he attempts to explain the basic questions of the meaning of being. As the sole member of the audience, viewers of the immersive play are not part of the cast, but are required to interact with the leading performers onstage. Old items that remind the audience members of their childhoods, such as stuffed toys, candies, a cassette recorder and a violin, are set on all  seats of the theater. The stage set is a cozy and small bar. Participant and performer sit beside a round table, chatting like old friends while drinking wine. They begin to exchange secrets and pour out the ups and downs of life as they become familiar with each other. The drama is unrestricted by a script because most conversations are improvised. Its more like an indepth dialogue between the participant and the performer, offering a platform for the former to recount their story onstage. Actor Li Jialong and actress Wang Xiaohuan took turns playing the leading role, and audiences could choose between them when buying their tickets. Tickets for all  performances, that ran between Oct  and , priced at  yuan  each, sold out online within  minutes. About half of the audience members were born after  or even after , and  percent were born between  and. They interacted with the leading performer freely, and the length of each performance ranged from  to  minutes, depending on their actual conversations. Its a breakthrough of theaterthe whole cast serves only one audience member, says avantgarde theater director Wang Chong, founder of the Beijingbased Theatre du Reve Experimental. He has directed two experimental plays that limit the number of audience members to four and , respectively. Its like an artistic church where you can heal your soul and relieve pressure, he says. Being here will arouse precious memories hidden behind the mundane routine of busy life and urge participants to think about how they became themselves now and what theyll be like in the future. He has watched similar plays involving one performer and one audience member abroad, but they only last for about  minutes. Actress Wang Xiaohuan left and an audience member interact with each other onstage. Photo provided to China Daily There are also seven supporting roles, including his. They go onstage to play popular childhood games with the participants, such as jumping rope. While Heideggers philosophical book is difficult to read, the drama seeks to guide its audience to ponder such issues as the existence of self through recalling childhood memories. Wang Chong says less than a fourth of the content is about the story of finding Martin. The rest is about the memories of the participants and the performers that surface during their private conversations. The core is not about plot but sincere communication between the participants and performers in a private space. For most of the time, only the two of them are onstage. Its a theatrical performance that allows you to reflect on your own life experience, he says. When participants are asked what theyd say to their yearold selves, some simply reply, Having fun is more important than studying. They also need to think about what they want to say to their future selves,  years later. Audience members have different careers. One is a fresh university graduate at a crossroads in life as a newbie at her workplace. Another is a scalperhe says he loves watching dramas and explains that reselling tickets is not his primary goal. Some have shed tears onstage. Two have even written letters to the theater group to share their feelings and offer suggestions about the drama. Actor Li Jialong would first introduce himself to the participant onstage and engage in idle chitchat. To his surprise, many people are very willing to share their life stories. Martins story is like a trigger, allowing them to recall their own memories. Some conversations are secrets just between us. In life, its not easy to start such an indepth talk with a friend unless youve had a close association for at least half a year, Li says. While performing, its like Im wearing the mask of the character and my real self is behind that. When theres only one audience member and we have to have eye contact, its difficult to hide myself. Thats the challenging part for me. He has enjoyed himself to the fullest onstage and realizes that every individual is unique, with wonderful stories of joy and sorrow, irrespective of age, gender or profession, he says.