Beijing plans to launch mass vaccination drive
2021/1/23 14:35
Huang Fang, senior official with the Beijing Center for Disease Prevention and Control and a municipal political adviser, talks to the media in Beijing on Friday night, Jan , . Photo  Beijing Daily Beijing will launch universal inoculation of COVID vaccines after the Spring Festival holiday, Huang Fang, senior official with the Beijing Center for Disease Prevention and Control and a political adviser, said at the fourth session of the th Beijing Municipal Committee of the Chinese Peoples Political Consultative Conference. The efficacy and safety of three kinds of domestic vaccines all meet the standards of WHO and National Medical Products Administration, Huang said on Friday night. Twelve municipal political advisers meet the press during the annual session of the Beijing Municipal Committee of the Chinese Peoples Political Consultative Conference in Beijing on Friday night, Jan , . Photo  Beijing Daily She suggested the public stay vigilant for the upcoming Spring Festival holiday amid the cluster infections in the city. Gatherings and ceremonies in rural areas should be suspended or canceled, she said. Other political advisers also shared their experiences about fighting the COVID epidemic during interviews at the session, which opened on Thursday. Jiang Baoguo, the president of Peking University Peoples Hospital and a municipal political adviser, talks to the media in Beijing on Friday night, Jan , . Photo  Beijing Daily Jiang Baoguo, the president of Peking University Peoples Hospital and a political adviser, led a medical team to support Wuhan last year. Medical workers knew how dangerous the virus was. They still rushed to the front line because of their professionalism, devotion, and great responsibility for people, he said. Wang Zhen, director of the emergency department in Beijing Shijitan Hospital in Haidian district and a municipal political adviser, talks to the media in Beijing on Friday night, Jan , . Photo  Beijing Daily Wang Zhen, director of the emergency department in Beijing Shijitan Hospital in Haidian district, said their early response in the initial phase of the epidemic effectively prevent nosocomial infections. Given the experiences of handling the SARS epidemic and other emergencies, we started to provide masks for every patient in early January as many of them came directly from the nearby Beijing West Railway Station and knew little about prevention measures, she said. The hospital also dispatched medical workers to assist Wuhan, and other infectious disease specialty hospitals in Beijing. The first two nurses we dispatched to Wuhan were both born after s. They fought on the front line for  days and did a great job, Wang said. Wang also delivered a lecture on how to scientifically get regular treatment for those patients with chronic diseases but were afraid to go to the hospital due to the epidemic. Han Shenjun, the CEO of a garment company in Beijing and a municipal political adviser, talks to the media in Beijing on Friday night, Jan , . Photo  Beijing Daily Han Shenjun, the CEO of a garment company in Beijing, organized his employees to produce , protective suits within  hours to make up for the shortage in the city, and later ensured the weekly productivity of , pieces. To reduce the risks of virus in the transportation of clothing materials, we separated several hundred kilograms of stuff into smaller vehicles before transporting to our factory. They worked from  am to  am to figure out how to produce safe suits, he said. Han said he received a photo of three medical workers thumbing up to express their gratitude. Im not a medic, I only create armors for you, Han wrote on the photo. The epidemic prevention and control has been a heated topic in this years session. Many political advisers brought up proposals on detailed control measures and made suggestions on the disease prevention and control system during the session. Xu Yanli, a municipal political adviser in the group of social welfare, talks to the media in Beijing on Friday night, Jan , . Photo  Beijing Daily Xu Yanli, a political adviser in the group of social welfare, advised to punish the patients who held back epidemicrelated information by canceling their qualifications of public health service. A medical worker disinfects testing tubes at a testing site in Xicheng District, Beijing, Jan , . 