Virtual influencers link up brands and customers
2021/10/15 9:30
A visitor checks out the booth of Xiaohongshu, a lifestyle platform, during an expo in Shanghai last year.  Daily When cosmetics group LOreal introduced its firstever virtual host for its MG beauty masks during the third China International Import Expo, few could find a strong relation between the animation figure and themselves. But just a few months after its debut, customers are now used to running into Miss Mthe name of the virtual idolany time of the day, as they watch the brands livestreaming sessions. While the artificial intelligencebacked Miss M is designed to give more detailed introductions of products, we now view her as being more than a virtual assistant. Instead, shes the bridge connecting the brand and our customers, said Li Xiaomei, brand director of MG. Virtual idol is a booming concept quickly gaining popularity among the younger people aged . Per a report by iiMedia Research Group, half of internet users in China said they like virtual influencers because of their personality and positioning. This is only possible because virtual characters can be imbued with unique character traits that allow them to develop personal appeal. According to iiMedia, virtual influencers might not be real humans, but they sure are likeable and have secured a position at the forefront of trends. Virtual influencers are highly popular among brands, as they can conform to the brand image and subtly convey brand concepts in their interaction with users, said Jason Yu, general manager of consultancy Kantar Worldpanel China. With brands jumping on the bandwagon, virtual influencers are making a lot of impact in the real world as they work to inspire and connect with the new generation of consumers. As such, lifestyle platform Xiaohongshu has launched a campaign to introduce the virtual influencers who are making waves in a community, and to link brands with these influencers. Chinas first metahuman virtual influencer Ayayi debuted on Xiaohongshu in May this year, attracting the attention of brands such as Louis Vuitton and Givenchy. Accumulated views under the topic Ayayi reached . million by the first week of this month. Another Chinese metahuman virtual influencer under the axi Angie made her debut on Xiaohongshu last month and a fivesecond video post of her looking around got over , likes and quickly gained her over , followers. Meantime, worldrenowned virtual influencers such as Lil Miquela who has millions of followers, as well as Imma, the first Asian metahuman who debuted in  and recently appeared at the Tokyo  Paralympics closing ceremony, are also making their appearance on the platform. The platform has attracted collaboration from leading fashion brands like Louis Vuitton, Givenchy, Gucci, OffWhite, Ambush, Palm Angels and Maison Margiela among others, who want to be part of these trending conversations.