The green path to enlightenment
2021/1/23 9:00
Photo by Xiao DaChina Daily A village in suburban Hangzhou is being held out as an exemplar of progress in promoting responsible waste sorting in the countryside. In December the village of Gaocheng ranked top in a monthly competition among  villages and communities of Dinglan subdistrict, said the village head, Yu Jianguo. Seven months earlier Gaocheng had been a straggler at the other end of the pack. In June the village launched a system of incentives to help villagers cultivate the habit of good waste handling. Gaocheng, about  kilometers north of downtown Hangzhou, has  households and a population of . In front of each of those households now stand two garbage receptacles, a green one for perishables and a gray one for anything else. Every day after dinner volunteering supervisors check whether the rubbish has been properly sorted, something that makes the job of those who collect the trash early the next day easier. Gaocheng has  households and a population of . In June the village launched a system of incentives to help villagers cultivate the habit of good waste handling. Supervisors rate every households performance and award a mark. Photo by Xiao DaChina Daily A random check is also made once a week. Supervisors rate every households performance and award a mark, and once a month the total of marks can be converted into grocery purchases such as laundry detergent, toilet paper and cooking oil. Yu says the village has spent more than , yuan , a month on such awards over the past half year. At the end of the year, villagers performance in keeping their environment clean can be taken into account in naming exemplary families, with cash bonuses being awarded. One of the villagers, Li Rongchun, said that at first there was a wide divergence in the performances but over time villagers waste handling has improved, and most families perform well enough to be able to win the maximum number of points. Gaocheng has  households and a population of . In June the village launched a system of incentives to help villagers cultivate the habit of good waste handling. Supervisors rate every households performance and award a mark. Photo by Xiao DaChina Daily Last month Lis family was awarded masks and napkins, items that can also be used in improving epidemic prevention. Yu said it is more difficult to promote wise waste handling in rural areas because most villagers have ways of doing things so deeply ingrained that they are hard to change. In addition, the population is widely dispersed, which makes a waste handling program harder to supervise. The city of Hangzhou started mandatory waste sorting of four categoriesrecyclables, perishables, hazardous and other wastesin the urban area in August , and later in villages with the classification reduced to two categories, as is the case in Gaocheng. Li said he believes that in future villagers will be able to get used to sorting rubbish into four categories. Gaocheng has  households and a population of . In June the village launched a system of incentives to help villagers cultivate the habit of good waste handling. Supervisors rate every households performance and award a mark. Photo by Xiao DaChina Daily While the total volume of garbage is difficult to calculate, it is decreasing because villagers have become aware of the wisdom of collecting waste paper boxes and bottles for reuse or sale, Yu said. The village is located in the Gaoting Mountain scenic region well known for its peach blossoms in spring, so fallen tree branches and leaves complicate villagers task in keeping things clean and tidy. The village thus spent , yuan on machinery to pulverize this waste and turn it into fertilizer. The village administration deals with used batteries and bulky waste. Yu said his mother, in her s, at first considered sorting garbage a waste of time and refused to comply with the regulations, but changed her mind after being a supervisor for a month. She has been able to teach others tips on classification. Gaocheng has  households and a population of . In June the village launched a system of incentives to help villagers cultivate the habit of good waste handling. Supervisors rate every households performance and award a mark. Photo by Xiao DaChina Daily When President Xi Jinping, at that time serving as vicepresident, visited the village in , the road was covered with mud, alongside were shanties, and fowls wandered anywhere they wanted, Yu said. But since  village infrastructure including the main road, park and sewage disposal have greatly improved, a result of Hangzhou wanting to develop tourism in its urban area to the north. In recent years villagers have rebuilt  villas of three stories surrounded by osmanthus, camphor, orange, cherry or waxberry trees. They have also demolished walls enclosing their yards to give the community a more open look and feel, at the same time making access for the increasing traffic easier. Twentynine households now run agritainment businesses, the most successful one with income of more than , yuan a year before the pandemic. Most of the businesses are said to generate , yuan to , yuan in income a year, according to Yu. Gaocheng has  households and a population of . In June the village launched a system of incentives to help villagers cultivate the habit of good waste handling. Supervisors rate every households performance and award a mark. Photo by Xiao DaChina Daily Villagers have all joined Gaochengs shareholding economy that runs two cemeteries and revitalizes collectively owned land, real estate and other investment. Each of the villagers received a dividend of more than , yuan last year. The rewards system will continue, even though villagers have got the message about the importance of sound domestic waste sorting, Yu says. In December the provincial peoples congress of Zhejiang adopted a regulation on domestic waste sorting, aiming to reduce garbage generation, improve recycling and promote refuse treatment. In recent years villagers in Gaocheng have rebuilt  villas of three stories surrounded by osmanthus, camphor, orange, cherry or waxberry trees. They have also demolished walls enclosing their yards to give the community a more open look and feel, at the same time making access for the increasing traffic easier. Photo by Xiao DaChina Daily The regulation clarifies the responsibilities of government institutions and individuals, and calls for multiple recycling of packaging and daily articles, the provincial government said. A charging system for garbage treatment in line with the principle produce more, pay more will also be introduced. In recent years villagers in Gaocheng have rebuilt  villas of three stories surrounded by osmanthus, camphor, orange, cherry or waxberry trees. They have also demolished walls enclosing their yards to give the community a more open look and feel, at the same time making access for the increasing traffic easier. Photo by Xiao DaChina Daily In recent years villagers in Gaocheng have rebuilt  villas of three stories surrounded by osmanthus, camphor, orange, cherry or waxberry trees. They have also demolished walls enclosing their yards to give the community a more open look and feel, at the same time making access for the increasing traffic easier. Photo by Xiao DaChina Daily In recent years villagers in Gaocheng have rebuilt  villas of three stories surrounded by osmanthus, camphor, orange, cherry or waxberry trees. They have also demolished walls enclosing their yards to give the community a more open look and feel, at the same time making access for the increasing traffic easier. Photo by Xiao DaChina Daily In recent years villagers in Gaocheng have rebuilt  villas of three stories surrounded by osmanthus, camphor, orange, cherry or waxberry trees. They have also demolished walls enclosing their yards to give the community a more open look and feel, at the same time making access for the increasing traffic easier. Photo by Xiao DaChina Daily