Marriott tailors menu to suit family gatherings
2021/1/23 0:00
Shenyang Marriott Hotel in Northeast Chinas Liaoning province is designing menus for Lunar New Years Eve, a traditional time for Chinese family reunions. The dinner, which signifies a farewell to the old and a welcome to the new, will be offered at the hotels Chinese restaurant, Man Ho. There will be six menus tailored for guests based on the number of diners. The Spring Festival holiday has always been the most ceremonial time of year for Chinese people. It raises peoples expectations in many ways, said Du Xia, general manager of the hotel. Our chef will prepare every piece of cuisine and ingredient heartily for every distinguished diner, so they can enjoy the warmth of a family gathering without any backbreaking toil, Du said. Man Ho is Marriott groups iconic Chinese restaurant. The restaurant has created a standard menu that pays homage to classic dishes and can tame the pickiest of eaters, Du said. To guarantee highquality flavor and ingredients, all Marriottbranded hotels refer to this menu, he added. In addition to its Chinese restaurants, the Shenyang Marriott Hotel has two other restaurants and two bars. Nowadays, diners are not just concerned with the quality of the food on their plate, they have higher standards when it comes to presentation and the restaurant environment itself, so they can take photos to post on social media, according to Du. The allday restaurant Shenyang Kitchen on the th floor overlooking the provincial capital, is the most popular in the hotel. It offers not only tasty food but a panoramic view of the city, Du said. During the Spring Festival holiday, the hotel will provide a variety of food, snacks and tea set gift boxes. These convey blessings and wishes of good health, good food and a good life, all in one, according to Marriott executives. Because of the COVID pandemic, people are spending more on family consumption while spending less on socializing, Du said. In light of these circumstances, the hotel will provide more familythemed products such as parentchild rooms, parentchild classrooms and family tours. It will also develop more dishes and beverages, suitable for takeout. In one of its efforts to combat the effects of the pandemic, the hotel has upped its sanitation and cleaning measures. All employees must wear masks and gloves and keep a distance of  meters from guests. Every room card must be disinfected before being given to guests, according to the hotel. Public areas, such as the lobby, must be disinfected and cleaned every two hours. The airconditioning system at the hotel must be disinfected regularly. When guests check out, the housekeeping department is to immediately disinfect highfrequency contact areas in the room. These include door handles, remote controls, lamp switches, faucet handles and toilet seats. The hotel encourages guests to use the room card service on their mobile phones and recommend they use their devices to check out, the hotel said. In terms of food safety, the hotel said it controls the source of imported foods and disinfects all packaging. All kitchen staff must wear masks and receive strict disinfection when processing food. If the prevention of the epidemic becomes a new normal in the following days, we will consider providing contactless services by using more face recognition devices, Du said. The hotel will also increase the use of antibacterial products and try our best to provide a safe and comfortable environment. liyouchinadaily.com.cn Clockwise from left The hotels Shenyang Kitchen restaurant is on the th floor and offers dinners a panoramic view of the city. A chef at the hotel prepares an abalone dish. The hotels culinary team creates new menus for Lunar New Years Eve dinners. CHINA DAILY