Cargo jets into new frontiers
2021/1/22 22:21
As world air travel grinds to a halt amid the pandemic, Shenzhen has found a niche in the hardhit aviation industry by embracing the new dynamism and charting a course for future growth. Li Bingcun reports from Shenzhen. Two aircraft of European airline companies pick up antipandemic medical supplies at Shenzhen airport in May . PHOTO PROVIDED TO CHINA DAILY When people cant fly, cargoes can, and can fly higher. With the Chinese mainland among the first countries to make a strong rebound from COVID, soaring trade calls for unparalleled support from sea and air forwarders  the latter having taken a big leap forward. The mainlands airfreight industry has seen remarkable growth with air passenger travel still in the doldrums, driven by rigorous global demand for antipandemic medical supplies, and the exponential growth of ecommerce, as more people go virtual in work, shopping and entertainment under tough social distancing curbs. The air cargo business looks set for another boost this year with the massive distribution of COVID vaccines rolling out on a global scale. Shenzhens Baoan International Airport was ahead of the pack with  percent growth in freight volume last year  the fastest among the countrys top five air cargo airports. The growth rate is also expected to outperform most of the worlds top  air cargo hubs, which recorded slowing growth in the first half of . Hong Kong International Airports cargo throughput was down . percent from previous period in the first  months of . Newfound edge Zhang Jinlin, a manager at Shenzhen airports international cargo center, inspects a warehouse at the airport in January. PHOTO PROVIDED TO CHINA DAILY Shenzhen airports robust growth holds promise in keeping its newfound edge in handling freight in postpandemic recovery. The airport has opened eight new international routes for cargo  the biggest addition to its destinations list in seven years. With its total annual cargo volume reaching . million metric tons, the airport ranked third in China last year. It was among the worlds top  in . It was an opportunity identified after the initial shocks of the pandemic buffeted the aviation industry. Zhang Jinlin, a manager in Shenzhen airports international cargo center, said he never expected such a dramatic change in last years business outlook. In February and March , the airports operations hit rock bottom because of the COVID pandemic, forcing Zhang to work mostly from home. The turnaround came in April. He recalled that the airport apron was packed with aircraft from various countries, some of which he had never seen in his  years working there, including Antonov AN , the worlds secondlargest cargo plane. Some of the aircraft were previously for military use and one company sent a fleet of six planes in one go. From the airport, masks, testing kits and ventilators were flown to other parts of the world to help people in need. That was when the pandemic was showing signs of being brought under control in China as it raged in other places. At Chinas busiest airports, including Shenzhens, the demand for exporting antipandemic supplies was acute. Zhangs team worked around the clock to handle the mountain of work. He lives near the airport and, sometimes, had to be called back to work in the wee hours. Some of his colleagues living farther away have voluntarily slept at the airport to save time. The air cargo demand remained strong last year. But what was being shipped out changed along with the world entering a new phase in its battle against the coronavirus pandemic. First came antipandemic supplies, followed by crossborder ecommerce commodities, from fitness equipment to gardening tools. The demand for such items was robust in developed countries, presumably because of burgeoning stayathome economies. Vaccines will be high up on the list too as countries place their hopes on having their populations inoculated to check the pandemics spread. Wan Jianjun, deputy general manager of Shenzhen airports logistics department, said theyre ready to play a crucial role in meeting the huge demand in the global transportation of COVID vaccines, citing the airports expertise in coldchain medicine delivery and a rapidly expanding international airline network. After Beijing and Shanghai airports, Shenzhen airport obtained the International Air Transport Associations Center of Excellence for Independent Validators in pharmaceutical logistics in October  an internationally recognized certification of coldchain medicine delivery. It also has a squaremeter cool center and three cool trailers for this purpose. By late November, Ethiopian Airlines and Cainiao International had started the first regular international cold chain route between China and Africa, which aims to transport temperaturecontrolled drugs, including COVID vaccines, from Shenzhen airport to Addis Ababa via Dubai. The route can endure temperatures as low as  C, cold enough to handle the lowtemperature storage required for most COVID vaccines throughout the distribution process. An aerial view of Shenzhen Baoan International Airport. PHOTO PROVIDED TO CHINA DAILY Currently, the route transports antipandemic supplies with two weekly shipments. The companies began testing vaccine delivery in midJanuary and expect to ship in bulk from the second quarter of this year, according to Cainiao, the logistics arm of Chinese ecommerce giant Alibaba Group. Wan expects the surge in demand to continue as more vaccines are well on course to be licensed for use. In December, vaccines developed by mainland pharmaceutical company Sinopharm were granted marketing authorization in the United Arab Emirates and Bahrain. On Jan , Egypt also approved the emergency use of Sinopharm vaccines. Currently, China has five kinds of COVID vaccines receiving finalstage clinical trials in  countries. Wan anticipated there would be shipping demand from a local COVID vaccine producer and potential producers in nearby areas in the future. Based in Shenzhen, vaccine developer Kangtai Biological Products has collaborated with British firm AstraZeneca to produce a COVID vaccine codeveloped by the firm and Oxford University. Kangtai promised an annual capacity of  million doses of vaccines by the end of next year. Shenzhen airport facilitated more than , international cargo flights to  countries last year. Insiders attributed the performance to Shenzhens solid foundation for biomedicine and crossborder ecommerce industries. The southern special economic zone has a thriving cluster of biomedicine enterprises, including vaccine manufacturer Kangtai Biological Products and BGI Genomics, which has become a leading producer of COVID testing kits, and ventilator supplier Mindray BioMedical Electronics. The city is also an ecommerce hub for domestic and crossborder transactions. Shenzhen is also home to a myriad of smallandmediumsized companies running related businesses that form sophisticated industry chains. Promising future Staff of Shenzhen airport load a batch of antipandemic goods onto an aircraft in March last year. PHOTO PROVIDED TO CHINA DAILY Despite the pressure, Shenzhen airport has overcome challenges and enhanced its freight capacity. And the changes it has made mainly in response to the new realities under the pandemic may prove strategic in its ambition to consolidate competitiveness in cargo and become an international cargo transportation hub in the years to come. Wan says coldchain delivery of medicines and other highvalue products, such as seafood and fruits, will be a major area for future growth. Shenzhen airports trajectory is a reflection of Chinas efforts to catch up with global air freight leaders. Mao Lingke, senior logistics adviser at Cainiao Global Supply Chain, said the pandemic has exposed the countrys weak point in air cargo transportation. Chinas airfreight sector has lagged behind some developed countries in building a business ecosystem that involves pure cargo flights, international airlines and airport facilities. The pandemic has shown the strategic significance of airfreight in maintaining global supply chains, as the shipments involve highvalueadded commodities like biomedicines and hightech instruments. At a State Council meeting in March , the central government pledged various initiatives to strengthen international air freight capacity. They include policy measures that aim to encourage aviation companies to purchase or rent more cargo flights relaxing restrictions of cargo airlines operation time and establishing information sharing platforms among logistics parties. Mao said the favorable policy environment will help Shenzhen airport unleash greater potential in its freight business. But he stressed the need for coordinated development as a cluster with nearby counterparts in the GuangdongHong KongMacao Greater Bay Area. Shenzhen airport saw a higher growth rate in cargo business than Guangzhou and Hong Kong, but its business volume still trails that of the two cities. Some cargo business has shifted from Hong Kong airport to Shenzhen under the pandemic, according to Zhang, the airport cargo center manager in Shenzhen. Previously, a considerable part of domestic goods was transported to Hong Kong airport for export via Shenzhen. Due to the antipandemic restrictions in crossborder cargo delivery, some international express companies and airlines, such as DHL, have diverted part of their businesses to Shenzhen airport, Zhang said. Mao suggested that airports differentiate their strengths and coordinate the planning of international airlines and commodity categories, as well as cooperation with aviation companies. For example, if Shenzhen airport can make a head start in coldchain delivery, Mao reckons the airport should further upgrade its expertise and capacity in this area into a pivotal business. He also emphasized the importance of further simplifying procedures of transferring goods among airports, especially between Hong Kong airport and those on the mainland and improving land transportation connecting them, such as opening up more fast tracks for cargo transportation.