Biden issues plan to fight pandemic
2021/1/22 11:20
US President Joe Biden speaks about his administrations plans to fight the coronavirus disease COVID pandemic during a COVID response event at the White House in Washington, US, Jan , .  US President Joe Biden on Thursday presented his COVID war plan for getting the coronavirus sweeping the country under control and saving American lives. History is going to measure whether we are up to the task, Biden declared in remarks to reporters in the State Dining Room of the White House. The White House released a page document that outlines the plan  National Strategy for the Covid Response and Pandemic Preparedness. On Thursday, Biden signed  executive orders and presidential directives covering parts of the plan, including increasing the production and purchasing of vaccines through the Defense Production Act and mandating face masks on federal property. Invoking the act would seek to ensure availability of glass vials, syringes gloves, N masks and other supplies needed for virus testing and vaccine administration. In addition to Biden asking Americans to wear masks for  days, he issued a separate order to federal agencies mandating masks on federal property. The order also calls for international travelers to quarantine after arriving in the US but doesnt specify how that would be enforced. Other orders direct the Federal Emergency Management Agency FEMA to reimburse states for some costs related to their COVID response and to provide funds to help reopen schools. He also is ordering FEMA to begin setting up vaccination centers at more locations, including stadiums and convention centers, and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention CDC to begin a program to make vaccines available through local pharmacies starting next month. The plan directs federal health agencies to consider raising pay for those who administer vaccines and calls for establishing a public health workforce that will help with testing and vaccinations in their communities. Joining Biden to discuss the plan was VicePresident Kamala Harris, Dr Anthony Fauci, his chief COVID medical adviser, and Jeff Zients, Bidens new White House COVID response coordinator. At one point, Biden criticized the Trump administration for not being aggressive on dealing with the pandemic, saying, For the past year we couldnt rely on the federal government to act with the urgency and focus and coordination that we needed, and we have seen the tragic cost of that failure. CNN reported Thursday that one Biden administration source who wasnt named claimed no plan was left for the new administration and that we are going to have to build everything from scratch. On Wednesday, Zients said, What were inheriting is so much worse than we could have imagined. The cooperation or lack of cooperation from the Trump administration has been an impediment. We dont have the visibility that we would hope to have into supply and allocations. When a reporter asked Biden if his promise to inject  million vaccines in his first  days should be for a higher number, the president said, When I announced, you all said its not possible. Come on, give me a break, man. The brutal truth is its going to take months before we can get the majority of Americans vaccinated, Biden said. Fauci gave an update on the coronavirus pandemic. He said that based on recent sevenday averages, coronavirus infections may be near a plateau in the US. Well, obviously were still in a very serious situation, he said. To have over , deaths is something that is, unfortunately, historic in the very bad sense. However, when you look more recently on the sevenday average of cases, he added, right now, it looks like it might actually be plateauing. Fauci said that the new administration is also seeking and increase in production of the Moderna and Pfizer vaccines as well as the Johnson  Johnson candidate, which he said could be presented soon to US regulators for approval. He added that if  percent of Americans are vaccinated by late September, some degree of normalcy can return to the country in the following months. Fauci also said the coronavirus vaccine can be modified to take account of new mutations of the virus, and that while a new variant in South Africa is concerning, it doesnt appear to be in the US. Bottom line Were paying very close attention to it for our alternative plans if we have to ever modify the vaccine, he said. But right now, from the reports we have  it appears that the vaccines will still be effective against them. Fauci said he was sometimes made uncomfortable by Trumps statements about the coronavirus because they were not based in scientific fact. You didnt feel that you could actually say something and there wouldnt be repercussions about it, Fauci said, adding that working for the Biden administration is somewhat of a liberating feeling. He said the new administration would be completely open and honest in dealing with the pandemic and said everything now would be based on science and evidence. He also said that in the Biden administration, the rule would be if you dont know the answer, dont guess. The idea that you can get up here and talk about what you know, what the evidence  what the science is, and know, Thats it. Let the science speak, it is somewhat of a liberating feeling, he added. A reporter then pointed out that, while serving in the same role under Trump, Fauci basically vanished for a few months there for a while. Do you feel like youre back now? the reporter asked. I think so, Fauci replied with a smile. The administrations plan is tied to a . trillion plan that Biden unveiled last week to combat the pandemic. The plan establishes a federal COVID response team to coordinate efforts across agencies and restores a White House team on global health risks that was established during the Obama administration. It calls for regular public briefings on COVID to be led by scientific experts. Biden also will issue an order to develop a national strategy to reopen schools, hoping to meet his goal of having most K schools open within his first  days in office. The plan orders the Education Department and the Department of Health and Human Services to develop guidelines to help schools reopen and to share best practices from schools across the nation. The federal government will work with schools to implement screening programs to help them reopen. The plan calls on Congress to provide at least  billion in additional aid to schools and  billion for colleges and universities. States also would be helped. The plan increases emergency funding to them and orders FEMA to reimburse them for certain costs tied to the pandemic, including supplies of protective equipment and for National Guard personnel supporting the pandemic response. The federal government will track data on virus cases, testing, vaccinations and hospital admissions and will make it available to the public. The CDC will start a public dashboard tracking cases at the county level. The plan accelerates vaccinations by ending a policy to hold back large amounts of vaccines for a second dose while also giving states clearer projections on vaccine availability to help them plan their rollouts. The federal government also will identify communities that have been hit hardest by the pandemic and make sure vaccine doses reach the residents there. The administration will launch a national campaign to educate Americans about vaccines and encourage them to get shots. A new national testing strategy will expand testing supplies and increase laboratory capacity. The plan asks Congress to provide  billion to stabilize child care centers that are at risk of closing and  billion in childcare aid for struggling families. Biden will issue an order calling on federal agencies to issue updated guidance on COVID precautions for workers and to consider new federal emergency standards. The plan would establish an equity task force to address disparities in rates of infection, illness and death across lines of race, ethnicity and geography. It directs federal agencies to expand data collection on highrisk populations and use that information to track and evaluate the pandemic response among those populations. The plan calls for establishing a public health workforce that will help with testing and vaccinations.