US COVID deaths surpass , on last day of Trumps presidency
2021/1/22 9:07
Experts have long argued that the USs public health infrastructure is underresourced and ill prepared for a serious crisis, and the pandemic has exposed this many times over Nearly a year into the pandemic, no state has capacities for testing and contact tracing that most experts would consider adequate, said Voxs German Lopez. WASHINGTON, Jan.   The number of confirmed COVID deaths in the United States surpassed the grim milestone of , on Tuesday, the last full day of Donald Trumps presidency. , DEATHS JUST OVER A MONTH With the national confirmed cases topping . million, the death toll across the country rose to , as of  p.m. local time on Tuesday, according to a tally by Johns Hopkins University JHU. New York State reported , fatalities, at the top of the US statelevel death toll list. California recorded the second most deaths of ,, followed by Texas with , deaths and Florida with , deaths, showed the JHU data. States with more than , fatalities also include New Jersey, Illinois, Pennsylvania, Michigan, Massachusetts and Georgia. The saddening milestone came just over a month after the US COVID death toll topped , on Dec. . It took nearly four months for the national death toll to climb from , to ,, and less than three months to jump from , to ,. The richest country in the world remains the worst hit by the pandemic, accounting for more than  percent of the global cases and nearly  percent of the global deaths. As the country endures record levels of daily COVID cases, hospitalizations and deaths,  percent of Americans say the virus is not at all under control, up sharply from  percent among registered voters in October, a new ABC NewsWashington Post poll finds. An updated model forecast by the Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation at the University of Washington projected a total of , COVID deaths in the United States by May , , based on the current projection scenario. HOW US GUARANTEED ITS FAILURE Political polarization and a rejection of science have stymied the US ability to control the COVID pandemic, said a New York Times article on Sunday. The Trump administration largely delegated responsibility for controlling the virus and reopening the economy to  governors, fracturing the nations response, said the article titled One Year, , Coronavirus Deaths How the US Guaranteed Its Own Failure. The severity of the current outbreak can be traced to the rush to reopen last spring... Science was sidelined at every level of government. More than  state and local health officials have been fired or have resigned since the beginning of the pandemic, the article said. There are serious structural issues that hindered states and the publics ability to act, wrote Voxs German Lopez at the beginning of this month. Experts have long argued that the USs public health infrastructure is underresourced and ill prepared for a serious crisis, and the pandemic has exposed this many times over Nearly a year into the pandemic, no state has capacities for testing and contact tracing that most experts would consider adequate, said Lopez. The pandemic situation in the United States threatens to get even worse as a new, more contagious variant of the virus becomes more prevalent and the rollout of vaccines for COVID has been slower than expected in the country. The variant first discovered in the United Kingdom could be the predominant strain in the United States by March, warned the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention CDC last week. The Trump administration planned to inject  million Americans by the end of . However, only about . million doses have been administered as of Jan. , according to the CDC. Presidentelect Joe Biden, who is to be sworn in on Wednesday, hopes to administer  million doses of twostage coronavirus vaccines in his first  days. He also plans to sign an executive order requiring masks on federal property and during interstate travel and is urging all Americans to wear face coverings for  days.