Rescuing miners could take  days
2021/1/22 8:47
Aerial photo taken on Jan ,  shows rescuers working at the explosion site of a gold mine in Qixia city, East Chinas Shandong province.  Clearing the main shaft to rescue  gold miners who have been trapped underground since Jan  in Qixia, Shandong province, is expected to take at least another  days, the rescue headquarters said on Thursday. The  miners, who were working more than  meters from the mines entrance, have been trapped after an explosion took place about  meters from the entrance. About , cubic meters of obstacles estimated to weigh  metric tons are still blocking the shaft, the rescue headquarters said. Eleven of the miners were found Sunday through a channel drilled through the same day. Another survivor is believed to be in an adjoining chamber, while  others remain missing. One of the  men found in the same chamber showed no signs of life on Wednesday night after being heavily injured in the blast and losing consciousness, despite efforts by his colleagues to save him. Eight of the workers are in stable condition, with two who initially felt discomfort still weak. The  miners have moved to a new place near a safer, newly drilled hole on the recommendation of the rescue headquarters. The previous chamber that housed them had water inflows, said Ma Jixiang, a member of the rescue headquarters technical expert panel. That influenced the living environment of the miners and had to be stopped to ensure safety. Song Xicheng, deputy director of the medical rescue team, said that lifesustaining nutrient solutions and medical supplies, including ham, disinfectant and masks, were delivered down to the  miners at noon on Thursday. Special medical equipment to treat the dead miners body was also delivered to them, he said. We made  calls with the miners from Wednesday afternoon to noon Thursday. By Thursday,  rescuers from  professional rescue teams and one fire team, together with  sets of rescue equipment, were working in shifts at the site, the rescue headquarters said.