Trump pledges to make return in some form
2021/1/22 7:20
US President Donald Trump leaves Palm Beach International Airport on route to his MaraLago residence in Palm Beach, Florida, US, January , .  Donald Trump left the White House on Wednesday morning for the final time as US president and vowed to be back in some form. Shortly after  am, he walked from the building onto a red carpet, hand in hand with first lady Melania Trump. He walked over to a group of reporters and told them the past four years had been the honor of a lifetime. Trump then boarded the Marine One helicopter for the short journey to Joint Base Andrews in Maryland, where he boarded Air Force One for a flight to his residence in Floridathe MaraLago resort that he once dubbed the Southern White House. At the airfield, Trump was greeted by a gun salute and a small crowd of supporters, including members of his staff and family. Teleprompters had been set up on a stage, and a speech had been prepared for him by aides who thought he should thank Presidentelect Joe Biden by name, but the teleprompters were removed before Trump arrived. He did not deliver the speech and did not mention Bidens name. However, he thanked VicePresident Mike Pence, who didnt attend the farewell event but was present at Bidens inauguration. Trump spoke without notes, telling the crowd, most of whom were not wearing face masks, We were not a regular administration. He asked them to remember all his accomplishments. We will be back in some form, he added. I will always fight for you. I will be watching I will be listening. And I will tell you that the future of this country has never been better. I wish the new administration great luck and great success, he said. I hope they dont raise your taxes. If they do, I told you so, he said. His last words before getting on the plane were, Have a good life, we will see you soon. With a recording of Frank Sinatras My Way playing, the th president of the US and his family members took off on Air Force One for Florida, where he will live. The plane landed at Palm Beach International Airport about  am. There was no crowd to greet Trump and his family. The Wall Street Journal reported that Trump, , plans to retain a small number of former White House officials in Florida and has begun talking to associates about raising money for his presidential library. He has also discussed with advisers the possibility of delivering paid speeches, the report said. Although he did not attend the inaugurationthe first outgoing president to skip the event in  yearsTrump did follow a threedecadelong tradition of departing US leadersleaving his successor a note in the Oval Office, wishing him well. This tradition was started in  by outgoing president Ronald Reagan. Past presidents have left such notes in the ornate Resolute Desk in the Oval Office, where incoming chief executives have found them immediately on starting their fouryear terms. White House spokesman Judd Deere said Trump left a letter of  or  words. Biden told reporters on Wednesday afternoon from the Oval Office The president wrote a very generous letter. Because it was private, I wont talk about it until I talk to him. But it was generous. Outgoing VicePresident Mike Pence also left a note for his successor, Kamala Harris. On his final night in the White House, Trump signed lastminute pardons and other clemency orders for  people, including Steve Bannon, his former chief strategist, wellconnected celebrities and nonviolent drug offenders. However, he did not preemptively pardon himself or his family. The White House did not announce the pardons until after midnight and then followed up with an order revoking the ethics rules Trump imposed on his former aides. Polls indicate that Trump left office retaining strong support among rankandfile Republicans, but he also departed as the most unpopular president in the history of polling, according to the Gallup organization, with a  percent job approval rating for his fouryear term, the lowest for any president for more than  years. Barack Obama averaged . percent for job approval in his eight years in the White House, while George W. Bush averaged .. percent. Trump also is the first president never to break the  percent job approval rating in any poll conducted by Gallup during his term. In the final Gallup poll for him, his rating was  percent.