Dual circulation to boost growth VI
2021/1/22 6:40
Editors Note Despite global uncertainties and the economic downturn caused by the COVID outbreak, China is on track to embrace the dualcirculation development pattern as it enters the th FiveYear Plan period  in , which also marks the th anniversary of the founding of the Communist Party of China. China Daily spoke to senior executives from multinational corporations to get their views on the overall macroeconomic environment, potential business opportunities, and how China can play a key role in shaping the trajectory of global growth. Q How important have your China operations been in your overall performance in ? Q Chinas new dualcirculation development pattern emphasizes on boosting domestic demand and further openingup the domestic market. How will your company utilize this policy to expand your presence and investment in China? Q Which policy aspect in the governments Six Safeguards and Six Priorities directive has emerged as most conducive to your development in China amid the global economic uncertainties? Q What are your views on Chinas highly centralized but peopleoriented economic development model? Do you think Chinas policies to quickly and effectively restore business activities and safeguard peoples livelihood have helped your business recovery in China and contributed to the recovery of the global economy and industrial chains? Q Whats your take on Beijings stance that China has entered a new development stage? How would such a proposition bring changes to your China strategy? Q How does China fit into your overall business strategy in the coming years? What role do you expect China to play in driving the world economy? Q What aspects of Chinas th FiveYear Plan and the countrys  longterm development goal are you most looking forward to, and how will your company adapt its strategy according to the countrys future growth paradigm? Charles Kao, president of Amorepacific China Photo provided to chinadaily.com.cn A China has always been the most important overseas market for Amorepacific. It is also a strategic spot for the global development of the group. In  we responded to the call of the Chinese government for economic recovery. At the same time, we actively adjusted our brands digital marketing strategy and resource allocation, fully integrated the data operations, and diverted offline consumer demand to online channels. Our sales increased by  percent yearonyear on Singles Day last year. A I think its time for us to embrace a new mindset of if it works in China, it will work in the world. Products and marketing approaches tailored for Chinese customers will more likely become best practices that prevail and succeed in overseas markets. Shanghai is our regional headquarters. We have a fullfledged large team that operates separately from management, research and development, and production and marketing. From innovated in China to social marketed in China, our China team is always able to define an effective way to get closer to Chinese customers and make ourselves better translated into the changing environment of the local market. A In view of the prominent problems foreignfunded enterprises currently face, the government has specifically proposed a series of targeted measures such as optimizing the foreign investment environment, innovating the methods of attracting foreign business and investment, and promoting the construction of open platforms. It has constantly relaxed market access, provided foreignfunded enterprises with targeted, operational solutions and created a marketoriented, legalized and international business environment. These favorable policies make us more hopeful about the future of investing in China. And they make our determination to take root in Shanghai for development much stronger. A For us, the Chinese market is a special trendsetter. Due to its unique expression of trends, diverse consumer groups and ways of thinking, booming innovative strength, and unique digital ecosystem, our business development and practice in China is forwardlooking and referenced for global business. Strengthening the competitiveness of brand and digitization are our two breakthrough points next year. We will continue to support the development of highend brands, especially Sulwhasoo and Laneige in the Chinese market. The year  has witnessed the process of all our brands on the fast track of digitization. And it has contributed half of the overall business to our business growth under the drive of new platform development, digital stores and community operations. Chinas market is highly digitized and the digital ecosystem is perfect. In the future, digitization will still be the core track for the development of the beauty market. And it is also the key for us to keep ahead. Holly Lei, president of Covestro China Photo provided to chinadaily.com.cn A Despite the lingering COVID pandemic, weve seen a strong comeback, particularly thanks to the resilience of our business in China C our largest market. That has enabled us to revise up our earnings guidance from earlier last year. As we continue our journey toward a future of circularity, China will certainly play an increasingly important role as both a huge market and a source of continuous innovation. Business opportunities in China will emerge from innovation, which is always the lifeblood of Covestro. A We believe that the new development paradigm with domestic circulation as the mainstay and domestic and international circulations reinforcing each other will mean that Covestro can leverage its global expertise and networks, together with its local partnerships and innovation projects in China, to better serve our clients and contribute to the shift toward highquality economic growth in the country. Covestro will strive to leverage our leading edges in materials and our open innovation approach to capture opportunities arising from the integration of the two circulation systems and Chinas further openingup. A A stable industry value chain and a wellfunctioning market system, which the Chinese government has pledged to maintain, is extremely important for multinational companies like Covestro. Also, the Chinese governments commitment to supporting foreign investors is helping boost confidence in the entire industry to navigate through challenging periods. A The centralization system in China has worked well to help control the spread of the virus, and its strategy to contain the pandemic before restarting the economy proved to be quite a success. Thats why China was the first country to recover, and the China market for multinational companies was also the first to recover. We greatly appreciated the efforts that China has made to revitalize business activities and aid enterprises  for example, sending masks to us and giving mask resources to us at the beginning of the COVID pandemic. Later Shanghai granted Covestro preferential natural gas prices as a nonresidential user, while nationallevel tax relief policies also helped us cut costs. Also, as the country unveiled massive stimulus packages, our customers were back to the recovery track, which in turn helped our business. So the deep Vshaped recovery was not too surprising to us. A As China enters a new development stage, it will place a greater emphasis on growth quality over speed. And the country will step up efforts to improve environmental protection to realize sustainable growth. Covestros business strategy and initiatives fit in well with Chinas agendas in the new development stage. The company will completely align its entire production and product range as well as all areas in the long term to the circular concept. A Chinas ongoing recovery and sustainable growth will serve as a longterm driver to global economic growth. Covestro is committed to further expanding our business presence and contributing to the nations economic upgrading and transformation. This year, we upgraded our regional headquarters in Shanghais Pudong New Area to oversee multiple functions such as investment, management, operations and RD. We will further bolster our innovation capability and leverage innovative results in China to serve the global markets. A China is doing its best to optimize the nations investment and business environment. The country has implemented a new foreign investment law, and has significantly shortened the negative list for foreign investment. Reform and openingup are further promoted in pilot zones like Pudong in Shanghai as well as Shenzhen and Hainan Island. China is also stepping up efforts to promote globalization and regional economic integration in a more proactive way. This will create more collaboration opportunities for companies worldwide, including Covestro. Global companies like Covestro will not only participate in a wide range of fields to contribute to these ambitions, but also benefit from the countrys economic resilience and momentum to foster their own business growth and diversification. Fabrice Megarbane, president of LOral North Asia Zone and CEO of LOral China Photo provided to chinadaily.com.cn A Our remarkable performance in China is a decisive factor for LOrals overall performance in . Amid the challenges brought by the COVID epidemic, Chinese mainland recorded . percent likeforlike at the end of September, significantly outperforming the market, which continued to recover with growth in the third quarter. The speed of recovery varied significantly depending on the distribution channel and category, but the increase in sales in offline stores and in the selective makeup market in China was particularly encouraging. LOral China outperformed the market and strengthened its position as the ecommerce and selective distribution leader. All divisions gained market share. Besides, the strong performance of LOral China helped our group return to growth in the third quarter and strengthened our confidence in the Chinese market and our overall performance this year. A In the postepidemic era, the dual circulation development pattern is key to economic recovery, boosting domestic demand and upgrading the industrial chain. We are confident in the prospect of the domestic economic cycle driven by consumption. The better livelihood and stable employment rate in China, as well as Chinese peoples increasing income, more willingness and power of spending, and increasing aspiration for a better life, create huge market demands. LOral is dedicated to responding to consumers upgrading demands for quality products and solutions. As for external circulation, LOral has witnessed Chinas determination to accelerate highquality openingup with multiple initiatives. We are fully confident in Chinas future development and eager to contribute as it becomes the country of good consumption, an innovationdriven economy with consumers that aspire for higherquality, more sustainable and safer products, services and experiences. A In the fight against the epidemic, LOral China is deeply impressed by the determination, speed and pragmatism of Chinese government to best contain the epidemic, as well as the discipline, solidarity and heroic spirit of Chinese people, the dedication of experts, medical professionals and even army to fight together. A In the past few years, China has made great efforts to make the Chinese market more stable, transparent and predictable, as well as fairer in terms of competition. It has also been a force of prosperity and stability  from streamlining administration and delegating power to reducing taxes and fees, and from continuous integration with the international community to localization and innovation. As the pace of reform in recent years has sped up, its execution has become more efficient, and China has opened its doors even wider. The more the business environment improves, the more confidence we have in the Chinese market. China is not only set to become the worlds largest economy and LOrals biggest market C it is the laboratory of the future. A In this new development stage, supplyside structural reform has long been a top policy objective. The government pledged to also pay attention to demandside management to further strengthen the new development pattern. Though the global economy continues its downturn and peoples daily lives have changed due to the COVID epidemic, peoples pursuit of beauty and aspirations for a better life remain the same. Chinese consumers aspirations for a better life are stronger than ever, all of which leads to the booming trend of good consumption C consumers expect to achieve both material and spiritual satisfaction and realize the pursuit of a better life through consumption, and aspire to coexist harmoniously with nature. A Nothing will change the significant role of China in LOral Groups overall business strategy. The implementation of the HUGE Project has also taken LOral China on a broad path toward an even greater vision to become the No  market of the group, to become a future beauty lab for the world, and to become a lighthouse of good consumption for the world. Chinas dualcirculation development strategy and continuous efforts in highquality openingup will certainly contribute to global development and facilitate globalization, boosting economic growth and vitality. With structural reforms such as foreign investment laws and free trade zones, China is openingup, increasing interaction and support between domestic and international markets, and creating a highquality business environment. A We particularly look forward to the governments ambitious plans in innovationdriven development and green development. If the future looks particularly bright, thats because China is blazing new trails as a global leader in digital and crucial new technologies. By combining large active markets with a dynamic and startupfriendly ecosystem, China is incentivizing innovation and becoming a magnet for pioneering talent. LOral firmly believes that these changes will make China an innovation epicenter of our planet, a laboratory of the future. Cecilia Qi, vicepresident and general manager for Pharma  Vaccines at GSK China Photo provided to chinadaily.com.cn A Were dedicated to the China market, which has huge unmet demand for available, accessible and affordable highquality medical solutions. In such a special year as , GSK continued to be actively engaged in the battle against the COVID pandemic, providing patented technology, establishing extensive strategic partnerships around the world, and supporting the development, manufacture and launch of COVID vaccines. A Chinas dualcirculation strategy allows the sharing of market opportunities and innovative results, bringing opportunities for mutual benefits. GSK is stepping up efforts in China to introduce innovative healthcare solutions and improve accessibility. Over the past  years, GSK has launched nearly  biopharmaceutical products in China. In , three of our innovative products have been successfully added to the National Reimbursement Drug List to benefit Chinese patients. We will continue to leverage our advantages and expertise to bring more of our innovative medicines and vaccines to the country addressing the huge unmet medical needs. A Our mission of bringing innovative healthcare and medical solutions to China will especially benefit from increasing stability in foreign investments, trade and supply chains. This will help us further add to the suite of products that we have launched here, as we up the pace of introducing innovative vaccines, prescribed drugs and new healthcare products into the China market. A Chinas swift and effective measures against the COVID pandemic convinced the world of their technical capabilities and social resilience. As the secondlargest economy globally, its speedy recovery in almost all aspects of life reassured our business operation and longterm development strategy in China, especially for the pharmaceutical industry, with COVID calling for improving attention and investment in healthcare. A In pursuing the new development pattern, scientific and technological innovation is the key to creating new growth momentum. Underpinned by scientific and technological innovation, Chinas new development stage encourages GSKs mission and strategy to strengthening our RD efforts and investments to bring more healthcare innovations to China. A The Healthy China  Vision will continue to be our utmost focus. Besides an increased attention to public health and strengthening the early response system, we foresee rapid development in preventive healthcare, telemedicine and promotion of elderly care. To that end, GSK continues to be instrumental in supporting the development, manufacture and launch of COVID vaccines and treatments. Besides generating medical innovations, GSK is also striving to build a health management ecosystem that integrates preventive measures and treatment, aiming to increase the accessibility of highquality innovative drugs and vaccines, improve overall diagnosis and treatment in Chinas medical and healthcare industry, and help Chinese people to do more, feel better and live longer. Kyungae Choe, managing director for PierreFabre DermoCosmetique China Photo provided to chinadaily.com.cn A For Pierre Fabre, China is our largest international market. Despite the influence of COVID, Pierre Fabre China recovered rapidly by implementing an omnichannel strategy and balancing our offline and online business. The efficiency and agility of our team contributed to our success for the year with strong online growth. We are very proud of our team and are confident in our development in China for the future. A Chinas development in  spoke for itself. Its economy achieved  percent yearonyear growth amid the global pandemic, which in our view, resulted from the reasonable implementation of national policies and the unremitting efforts from its people. We will dig further into the market, and constantly bring innovative and highquality products, looking after Chinese consumers in terms of everything from hair to skin. Under the guideline of dualcirculation, this cooperation will lift our promise to Chinese consumers to the next level and help us to better satisfy consumers demands. A The directive effectively protects multinational corporations investment and stable development. It offers a highquality platform for multinational corporations further investment and expansion in China. A stable environment is one of the most important aspects for enterprise development. Currently, in terms of enterprise operation and investment, China offers the safest environment in the world. This offers multinational corporations, like Pierre Fabre, great confidence to infuse more energy into its development in China. A When COVID swept across the world, the Chinese government effectively curbed the epidemic. This not only contributed to the quick recovery of the Chinese economy, but also enabled the healthy and stable development of foreign enterprises in China. As the secondlargest economy in the world, Chinas economic recovery played a critical role in the revival of the global economy and industrial chain. Thanks to Chinas policy of recovery and restoration, our business quickly returned to normal in Q last year. We shared our experience with our colleagues all over the world to help them better balance business priorities and employees safety. A Chinas development is a miracle for world economic development. Theres no doubt China is leading the worlds economy with strong growth, cuttingedge technology and innovations. Ecommerce and digitization are transforming the market and the world in which we live. Chinese consumers become more and more demanding and sophisticated. Pierre Fabre is fully committed to embracing the challenges by listening to our consumers, transforming our business and following the fastchanging market trends. A The new plan emphasized highlevel openingup, green development and improvement of peoples lives. Each of these areas echo our groups purpose. Pierre Fabre will continue to expand and deepen our footprint in China market by providing more innovative and efficient products and solutions to Chinese consumers. Based on our core strategy, we will make localized adjustments. We will stick to a consumeroriented strategy, and continue to create employment and focus on domestic issues including education and women rights, in order to fulfill our corporate social responsibility in China. Shirley Yu, senior vicepresident and group general manager for Visa Greater China Photo provided to chinadaily.com.cn A Statistics show China has recovered fast from the pandemic, and its economy continues to bounce back. Visa has been operating in the China market for over  years and our commitment in the market remains long term. We are dedicated to working closely with the Chinese government, financial institutions and other industry players to bring secure and innovative payment solutions to the market. We see significant potential for Visa to support the continued growth and evolution of digital payments in China, including through the Beijing  Winter Olympics and Paralympics. A Chinas small and mediumsized enterprises SMEs are crucial. According to the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology, by the end of , Chinas SMEs contributed to  percent of the GDP. We are supporting SMEs to recover from the pandemic through digital transformation, providing them with the new business skills and tools as well as BB payment solutions. We also launched campaigns to incentivize spending and promote digital commerce by connecting sellers and buyers between China and the rest of the world. A For more than  years, Visa has been proud to serve millions of Chinese consumers in partnership with  leading financial institutions in China. We are inspired by the governments recent policies to continue accelerating foreign trade and attracting foreign investment. As a longstanding partner of China, we are encouraged by the countrys commitment to further openingup the financial services industry. We look forward to working more closely with our domestic partners. A Statistics show China has recovered fast from the pandemic, and its economy continues to bounce back. The Chinese government has announced a slew of policies for businesses and individuals to boost domestic spending. These policies will be conducive to Visas development as we connect sellers and buyers around the world and we see consumers making more crossborder purchases through the use of ecommerce. A China is transforming itself as it enters the new development stage. We look forward to bringing our innovative products and solutions to China and adding value to the market. Visa will transform and grow together with China in the new development stage and beyond. A Visa sees even greater potential in responding to the governments initiative, which aims at accelerating highquality economic growth for the benefit of Chinese people. At the same time, Visa stays committed to supporting Chinas sustainable social development, including rural revitalization and financial inclusion, as well as peopletopeople and cultural exchanges.