Dual circulation to boost growth I
2021/1/21 17:27
Patients are held in the hallway as St. Mary Medical Center resorts to using tents outside to handle the overflow at its  bed hospital during the outbreak of the coronavirus disease COVID in Apple Valley, California, US, Jan , .  As President Donald Trump entered the final year of his term last January, the US recorded its first confirmed case of COVID. Not to worry, Trump insisted, his administration had the virus totally under control. Now, in his final hours in office, after a year of presidential denials of reality and responsibility, the pandemics US death toll has eclipsed ,. And the loss of lives is accelerating. This is just one step on an ominous path of fatalities, said Dr. Irwin Redlener, director of the National Center for Disaster Preparedness at Columbia University and one of many public health experts who contend the Trump administrations handling of the crisis led to thousands of avoidable deaths. Everything about how its been managed has been infused with incompetence and dishonesty, and were paying a heavy price, he said. The ,death toll, reported Tuesday by Johns Hopkins University, is greater than the population of New Orleans, Cleveland or Tampa, Florida. Its nearly equal to the number of American lives lost annually to strokes, Alzheimers disease, diabetes, flu and pneumonia combined. With more than , deaths recorded on some recent days  the most since the pandemic began  the toll by weeks end will probably surpass the number of Americans killed in World War II. We need to follow the science and the ,th death is shameful, said Cliff Daniels, chief strategy officer for Methodist Hospital of Southern California, near Los Angeles. With its morgue full, the hospital has parked a refrigerated truck outside to hold the bodies of COVID victims until funeral homes can retrieve them. Its so incredibly, unimaginably sad that so many people have died that could have been avoided, he said. Presidentelect Joe Biden, who will be sworn in Wednesday, took part in an evening remembrance ceremony Tuesday near the Lincoln Memorial in Washington. The , dead were represented by  lights placed around the reflecting pool. The bell at the Washington National Cathedral tolled  times. Other cities around the US planned tributes as well. The Empire State Building was lit in heartbeat red  the same lighting used last year as a show of support for emergency workers at the height of the virus surge in New York City. The red lights pulsed as a visual heartbeat. In Salt Lake City, the bells at the Utah Capitol were to ring  times in honor of the more than , lives lost to COVID in the state. The US accounts for nearly  of every  virus deaths reported worldwide, far more than any other country despite its great wealth and medical resources. The coronavirus would almost certainly have posed a grave crisis for any president given its rapid spread and power to kill, experts on public health and government said. But Trump seemed to invest as much in battling public perceptions as he did in fighting the virus itself, repeatedly downplaying the threat and rejecting scientific expertise while fanning conflicts ignited by the outbreak. As president he was singularly positioned to counsel Americans. Instead, he used his pulpit to spout theories  refuted by doctors  that taking unproven medicines or even injecting household disinfectant might save people from the virus. With deaths spiraling in the New York City area last spring, Trump declared war on the virus. But he was slow to invoke the Defense Production Act to secure desperately needed medical equipment. Then he sought to avoid responsibility for shortfalls, saying that the federal government was merely a backup for governors and legislatures. I think it is the first time in history that a president has declared a war and we have experienced a true national crisis and then dumped responsibility for it on the states, said Drew Altman, president of the Kaiser Family Foundation, a health care policy think tank. When the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention tried to issue guidelines for reopening in May, Trump administration officials held them up and watered them down. As the months passed, Trump claimed he was smarter than the scientists and belittled experts like Dr. Anthony Fauci, the governments top authority on infectious diseases. Why would you bench the CDC, the greatest fighting force of infectious disease in the world? Why would you call Tony Fauci a disaster? asked Dr. Howard Markel, a medical historian at the University of Michigan. It just doesnt make sense. As governors came under pressure to reopen state economies, Trump pushed them to move faster, asserting falsely that the virus was fading. LIBERATE MINNESOTA! he tweeted in April as angry protesters gathered at the state Capitol to oppose the Democratic governors stayathome restrictions. LIBERATE MICHIGAN! In Republicanled states like Arizona that allowed businesses to reopen, hospitals and morgues filled with virus victims. It led to the tragically sharp partisan divide weve seen in the country on COVID, and that has fundamental implications for where we are now, because it means the Biden administration cant start over, Altman said. They cant put the genie back in the bottle. In early October, when Trump himself contracted COVID, he ignored safety protocols, ordering up a motorcade so he could wave to supporters outside his hospital. Once released, he appeared on the White House balcony to take off his mask for the cameras, making light of health officials pleas for people to cover their faces. More than , patients with the virus are in the hospital in the U.S., according to the COVID Tracking Project, twice the number who filled wards during previous peaks. On a single day last week, the U.S. recorded more than , deaths. While vaccine research funded by the administration as part of Warp Speed has proved successful, the campaign trumpeted by the White House to rapidly distribute and administer millions of shots has fallen well short of the early goals officials set. Young people are dying, young people who have their whole lives ahead of them, said Mawata Kamara, a nurse at Californias San Leandro Hospital who is furious over the surging COVID cases that have overwhelmed health care workers. We could have done so much more. Many voters considered the federal governments response to the pandemic a key factor in their vote  said it was the single most important factor, and they overwhelmingly backed Biden over Trump, according to AP VoteCast. Agencies via Xinhua