Trump leaves DC, vows to be back
2021/1/21 12:38
US President Donald Trump waves from a car as he drives past supporters in West Palm Beach, Florida, US, on Jan , .  President Donald Trump left the White House on Wednesday morning for the final time as president and vowed to be back in some form. Shortly after  am, Trump walked out of the White House onto a red carpet, hand in hand with first lady Melania Trump. He walked over to a group of reporters and told them the last four years have been the honor of a lifetime. He then boarded the Marine One helicopter for the short flight to Joint Base Andrews in nearby Maryland, to board Air Force One for a flight to his residence in Florida  the MaraLago resort that he once dubbed the Southern White House. Trump was greeted at the airfield by a gun salute, and a small crowd of supporters, including members of his staff and family. Teleprompters had been set up on a stage, and a speech had been prepared for the president by aides who thought he should thank Presidentelect Joe Biden by name, but the teleprompters were removed before he arrived. He discarded the speech and he didnt mention Bidens name. He did thank VicePresident Mike Pence, who didnt attend the farewell event but attended Bidens inauguration. He spoke without notes, telling the crowd, most not wearing masks, We were not a regular administration, and asked them to remember all of his accomplishments. We will be back in some form, he added. I will always fight for you. I will be watching I will be listening. And I will tell you that the future of this country has never been better. I wish the new administration great luck and great success, he said. I hope they dont raise your taxes. If they do, I told you so, he said. His last words before getting on the plane were, Have a good life, we will see you soon. With a recording playing Frank Sinatras My Way, the th president and his family members took off on Air Force One for Florida, where he will reside. The plane landed at Palm Beach International Airport around  am. There was no crowd to greet Trump and his family. Trump, , plans to maintain a small staff of former White House officials in Florida and has begun talking to associates about raising money for his presidential library and discussed with advisers the possibility of delivering paid speeches, The Wall Street Journal reported. Though he didnt attend the inauguration  the first outgoing president to skip the event in  years  Trump did follow a threedecadelong tradition of departing American leaders by leaving his successor a note in the Oval Office. The tradition started in  by departing president Ronald Reagan. Past presidents have left their notes in the ornate Resolute Desk in the Oval Office, where the new chief executives have found their good wishes immediately upon starting their fouryear terms. White House spokesman Judd Deere said that Trump had left a letter of between  and  words. Biden later told reporters Wednesday afternoon from the Oval Office, The president wrote a very generous letter. Because it was private, I wont talk about it until I talk to him. But it was generous. VicePresident Mike Pence also left a note for his successor, Kamala Harris. On his final night in the White House, Trump signed lastminute pardons and other clemency orders for  people, including Stephen Bannon, his former chief strategist, wellconnected celebrities and nonviolent drug offenders. But he didnt preemptively pardon himself or his family. The White House didnt announce the pardons until after midnight and then followed up with an order revoking the ethics rules Trump had imposed on his own former aides. Polls indicate that Trump left office retaining strong support among rankandfile Republicans, but he also left as the most unpopular president in the history of polling, according to Gallup polls, with a  percent job approval over four years in office, the lowest of any president in the last sevenplus decades. Barack Obama averaged . percent job approval in his eight years, while George W. Bush averaged . percent. Trump also is the first president to never break  percent job approval in any poll conducted by the Gallup organization over his term. The final Gallup poll pegged Trumps job approval at  percent.