Trump sees new witch hunt
2021/1/21 10:02
Lan Chao at the Ledra UN police station in sector two of the UNs Cyprus mission area. Photo provided to China Daily Chinese police officer faces challenges ranging from grenades to threat of COVID infection in Cyprus While his family and friends in China were celebrating New Years Day, peacekeeper Lan Chao was informed by the UN military in Nicosia, Cyprus, that they had found a grenade in the buffer zone he works in. Although the yearold has dealt with many incidents in the United Nations mission area since , the grenade incident still gives him the shivers. If I had run over the grenade while on patrol, I dont dare imagine the terrible consequences, he said. The UN police in Cyprus have been part of the UN Peacekeeping Force in Cyprus since , when it was established after the outbreak of intercommunal violence in . The mission was extended in  after further conflict and the UN force was redeployed to patrol the United Nations Buffer Zone in Cyprus and assist in maintaining stability. Lan is a team leader at the Ledra UN police station in sector two of the UNs Cyprus mission area, which has  officers and covers a buffer zone length of about  kilometers. His main jobs are patrolling and preserving order, resolving civil disputes, controlling civilian access to the zone and issuing permits for farming. Lan said when he chats with the residents they are relaxed, but some are aware they live in an unsafe area as armed conflicts can arise at any time. Whenever I patrol the buildings and streets destroyed during the conflict, I am struck by the fact that I do not live in a peaceful world, I am just lucky enough to come from a peaceful country, he said. Since January , China has sent  police officers to participate in peacekeeping operations in Cyprus. At present, of  UN police officers in the country, six are from China. Lan near a checkpoint. Photo provided to China Daily Cold sweats A police officer from Xingtai City Public Security Bureau in Hebei province, Lan applied for a job with the UN police in September  and arrived in Nicosia in March . Due to the COVID pandemic he has extended his yearlong stay until March, and will remain several months more if the global situation remains unstable. The recent surge in cases in his home province is a stark reminder that the virus knows no boundaries. While he believes the Hebei authorities are doing their best to control the outbreak, he cant help worrying about his family. Lan said some members of the UN peacekeeping force have been infected by COVID. UN police officers share the same work building with other peacekeepers, and they take precautionary measures against the virus, such as avoiding gatherings. When the virus first appeared in the mission area, Lan and his Chinese colleagues insisted on wearing masks to work, but other colleagues didnt. Some officials with the peacekeeping force even said that wearing masks in the workplace could damage the UNs image. Now all peacekeepers are encouraged to wear masks and take protective measures. Lan said that the number of COVID infections in Cyprus is increasing by several hundred each day, with the highest daily total reaching nearly ,. The country announced a second lockdown, from Jan  to , as the pandemic situation became severe. Cypruss Health Ministry said as of Jan  it had recorded a total number of , cases and  deaths. I often tell my colleagues that the pandemic has changed the world and also our missions, he said. Lan Chao. Photo provided to China Daily Missing his family Although his family was at first hesitant about his decision to become a UN police officer, they eventually supported him going to Cyprus. Lan left behind two sons, ages  and , and elderly relatives in poor health. He booked a flight home for a holiday in January last year, but the COVID situation in China was quite severe. He eventually abandoned his holiday plans as he was worried he might not be able to make it back to the peacekeeping mission. I promised my children I would go back and celebrate Spring Festival with them, I do miss my family. Ive never left home for two years before. My longest business trip in China was only a few months, he said. However, as a UN police officer and also a Chinese police officer, I must be rational. My philosophy differs from that of my colleagues from other countries. As long as I work here, I will prioritize my work, rather than ignoring my responsibility just because of a vacation. On patrol Lan lives in a local community, works from  am to  pm, and cooks for himself. In some joint operations such as combating illegal hunting, smuggling and immigration, he needs to get up earlier. He also has to be on duty  hours to answer phone enquiries. To avoid COVID infection, the patrol cars operate in pairs with only one occupant per vehicle. The buffer zone is patrolled at least once a day, with each trip lasting several hours. Night patrols are more challenging, as there are no street lights to guide the police officers through rugged terrain. Only the stars and the moon accompany us on the night patrol. The routes among the mountains are narrow and dangerous. On one side of the road is an abyss and any carelessness could have serious consequences, he said. In summer, the temperature can hit  C, and in winter heavy rain can wash away roads and bridges, making the patrol more difficult. I am proud to be part of the peacekeeping work and promote a countrys peace process, Lan said. The pandemic and other difficulties cannot deter me and I will shoulder my responsibilities for the rest of my stay.