Democrats mull second Trump impeachment
2021/1/21 6:55
Joe Biden is sworn in as the th president of the United States by Chief Justice John Roberts as Jill Biden holds the Bible during the th Presidential Inauguration at the US Capitol in Washington, US, January , .  In his inaugural address, Biden said few people in the countrys history have been more challenged, or found the time more challenging or difficult, and there is much to repair, much to restore, much to heal much to build and much to gain. I asked every American to join me in this cause to fight the foes we face  anger, resentment and hatred, extremism, lawlessness, violence, disease, joblessness and hopelessness  with unity, President Biden said. Joe Biden and Jill Biden arrive at his inauguration on the West Front of the US Capitol in Washington, US, Jan , .  Joe Biden,, took the oath of office at noon Wednesday to become the th President of the United States. He is the oldest president inaugurated. Kamala Harris is sworn in as Vice President as her spouse Doug Emhoff holds a bible during the th Presidential Inauguration at in Washington, US, January , .  Kamala Harris, , makes history as she was sworn in to be the first woman to be vicepresident of the United States. The former US senator from California is also the first Black person and the first person of South Asian descent elected to the post. US President Joe Biden speaks during the th Presidential Inauguration at the US Capitol in Washington January , .  Joe Bidens presidential inauguration ceremony has begun Biden swears the oath of office at noon Wednesday, becoming the th president of the United States. The Democrat is preparing to take the helm of a deeply divided nation and inherit crises arguably greater than any faced by his predecessors. History will be made at Bidens side, as Kamala Harris becomes the first woman to be vice president. The ceremony in which presidential power is transferred is a hallowed American democratic tradition. And this time it serves as a jarring reminder of the challenges Biden faces The inauguration unfolds at a US Capitol battered by an insurrectionist siege just two weeks ago, encircled by security forces. Its devoid of crowds because of the threat of the coronavirus pandemic. Flouting tradition, Donald Trump departed Washington on Wednesday morning ahead of the inauguration rather than accompany his successor to the Capitol. Former Presidents George W. Bush, Barack Obama and Bill Clinton are attending. The other living former president, yearold Jimmy Carter, previously announced he would not attend. US Presidentelect Joe Biden is sworn in as the th US President, at the US Capitol in Washington, US, January , .  US President Joe Biden signs executive orders in the Oval Office of the White House in Washington, after his inauguration as the th President of the United States, US, January , .   President Biden orders US to rejoin Paris Agreement on climate change Read more A guest wearing a US flag mask arrives during the inauguration of Joe Biden as the th President of the United States on the West Front of the US Capitol in Washington DC, US, on Jan , .   Biden signs executive order on mask challenge amid COVID Read more  Biden reverses US withdrawal from WHO Read more