Biden executive orders undo Trumps favorites
2021/1/21 6:40
Editors Note Despite global uncertainties and the economic downturn caused by the COVID outbreak, China is on track to embrace the dualcirculation development pattern as it enters the th FiveYear Plan period  in , which also marks the th anniversary of the founding of the Communist Party of China. China Daily spoke to senior executives from multinational corporations to get their views on the overall macroeconomic environment, potential business opportunities, and how China can play a key role in shaping the trajectory of global growth. Q How important have your China operations been in your overall performance in ? Q Chinas new dualcirculation development pattern emphasizes on boosting domestic demand and further opening up the domestic market. How will your company utilize this policy to expand your presence and investment in China? Q Which policy aspect in the governments Six Safeguards and Six Priorities directive has emerged as most conducive to your development in China amid the global economic uncertainties? Q What are your views on Chinas highly centralized but peopleoriented economic development model? Do you think Chinas policies to quickly and effectively restore business activities and safeguard peoples livelihood have helped your business recovery in China and contributed to the recovery of the global economy and industrial chains? Q Whats your take on Beijings stance that China has entered a new development stage? How would such a proposition bring changes to your China strategy? Q How does China fit into your overall business strategy in the coming years? What role do you expect China to play in driving the world economy? Q What aspects of Chinas th FiveYear Plan and the countrys  longterm development goal are you most looking forward to, and how will your company adapt its strategy according to the countrys future growth paradigm? Jerry Zhang, executive vicechairman and CEO of Standard Chartered Bank China Limited. Photo provided to chinadaily.com.cn A We delivered a resilient performance, both operationally and financially. As of the end of the third quarter in , SCB China has achieved both income and operating profit growth, and we remained the largest contributor to the network income of the group. China is a strategically important and top priority market for Standard Chartered. We have a longterm commitment to China, and were among international banks with most comprehensive licenses. A With this new pattern, China will continue its openingup as well as facilitating and enhancing trade and investment with other countries. The recently launched Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership, which was joined by China and  nations, is a good case in point. Were wellpositioned to connect the domestic and international circulation and promote the dual circulation in a range of areas, including digitalization, supply chain financing, renminbi internationalization, the Belt and Road Initiative and the GuangdongHong KongMacao Greater Bay Area. A Chinas effective pandemic control has led to a quick Vshaped economic recovery in the second quarter of last year, paving the way for the sustained recovery in the second half on normalization of both industrial and services activities. China prioritized employment last year and implemented effective policies to restore businesses, which helped the unemployment rate decline to . percent in October from . percent in February. The PBOCs quarterly depositor survey suggests that households income and employment expectations improved in the third quarter. Chinas quick recovery and normalization of activities last year has contributed greatly to the resumption of global trade and industrial chains, reflected in the surge of Chinas export growth in the second half. Thanks to the resilient supply chains and quickly resumed production capacity, Chinas dollardenominated export growth jumped to over  percent yearonyear in November. We estimate that Chinas exports will contribute about  percent to total exports globally, a rare high proportion in recent history. A Developing a strong domestic market is the cornerstone of the new development approach. Our new focus will be on promoting consumption, improving the supplychain and industrial modernization, and expanding room for investment. Were wellpositioned to bank and support the clients in, from and into China by focusing on the sweet spot of our unique strength and expertise, and economic development priorities of China as it enters a new era of development. A China is a strategically important and top priority market for Standard Chartered, and were excited about the prospects of Chinas longterm development, and the continuous openingup of Chinas financial sector, which presents exciting opportunities to us. We expect Asia  particularly China  to lead the global economic rebound. China was the only major country that delivered positive growth in  and is likely to be one of the major economies that enjoys the highest GDP growth this year. Our forecast for  China GDP growth is  percent. We believe Chinas economic recovery has been pivotal to the recovery in copper prices, boosting copper demand and imports. The countrys new infrastructure campaign should further support copper demand through the buildout of the G network, electric vehicle charging infrastructure, ultrahigh voltage transmission lines, and wind power installations. A China is committed to promoting the green and sustainable development of the society and economy, in which we believe green finance will play a vital role. China will also continue promoting further openingup and steadily improving renminbi internationalization, which provides a huge opportunity for the bank as well. We could play an even bigger role by working with our clients and peers to continue promoting and facilitating the crossborder usage of renminbi. Were also a leading international bank with an extensive branch network in the GuangdongHong KongMacao Greater Bay Area, and committed to delivering borderless client experiences and connectivity across the Greater Bay Area region and beyond through innovation. Justin Sargent, president of Nielsen China and Retail Intelligence Asia. Photo provided to chinadaily.com.cn A Nielsens business operations in China have already returned to normal, and we are working closely with our clients to help them win in the volatile market by providing insightful data and analysis. To grow business in China is an important part of Nielsens global strategy, and our China operations are of great importance to Nielsens overall performance. A We understand the essence of dualcirculation is not closing the door but further opening up. Through unlocking domestic consumption potential, protection of intellectual property rights, improvement of the business environment and reduction of foreign investment access restrictions, China intends to attract multinational companies to keep and expand their business in China and share in Chinas consumption market. We are looking forward to helping more clients drive innovation with a deep understanding of the crowded and highly competitive Chinese market. A The Chinese governments efforts to ensure six priorities and stability in six areas have played a positive role in promoting Chinas economic and market recovery after the outbreak. Among these policies, we think stabilizing foreign investment and safeguarding market entities are most conducive to our development in China amid the global economic uncertainties. A Since the outbreak of the virus, Chinas experience in fighting against the disease has been a barometer for the world. China also leads the world in the pace of economic and consumption recovery. All of these prove the advantages of Chinas economic development model. With the governments great support, Nielsen combated COVID with resilience. During the outbreak, Nielsen received support from the government, including material supply and financial support. Shanghais Changning District Bureau of Commerce donated , masks to Nielsen China during the COVID peak, and Shanghai Changning Investment Service Center processed a special fund of . million yuan to Nielsen China to help us overcome difficulties. A We believe as China enters a new development stage, it will bring more China opportunities to the whole world. We also believe China will create a more fair, transparent and predictable business environment in the future, and with the further development of Chinas economy and consumption market, there will be huge opportunities waiting for us. A I believe China will make healthy and sustainable economic development in the coming years and inject new vitality into the world economy. China is and will always be an important and essential part of Nielsens overall business strategy. Our determination to grow business in China will not change, and we are confident we will do better with the support of policies, the efforts of all staff and the trust of our clients. A Chinas th FiveYear Plan and the countrys  longterm development goal depicts a grand blueprint for Chinas economic and social development in the future. It covers many aspects, and we are most looking forward to innovation, domestic market and opening up. Nielsen will accelerate the pace of innovation, adjust our strategy to adapt to the dynamic market and emerging client needs. Honson To, chairman of KPMG China and Asia Pacific. Photo provided to chinadaily.com.cn A In the financial year ending September in , KPMG Asia Pacific was the fastestgrowing region in our network, delivering positive growth. This is particularly notable as we had been hit by COVID earlier than other regions but managed to come back and deliver credible results. The center of gravity is shifting to the AsiaPacific region, and as we could all see, China is playing an important role of underlying the strong performance behind it. KPMG China continued to expand its presence in China in  by opening offices in Jinan, Ningbo, Suzhou and Hefei. A First, China has a large and rapidly growing domestic market. Second, innovation is the key driver for Chinas highquality growth and the future of a digital economy. Third, dual circulation doesnt mean China will be cut off from the global economy. Instead, we see international collaboration critical for Chinas development. The Central Economic Work Conference stressed that China will continue highlevel openingup and actively consider joining the Comprehensive and Progressive Agreement for TransPacific Partnership. We see a tremendous opportunity to strengthen the AsiaPacific regions economic integration and collaboration. A The Six Safeguards and Six Priorities directive has increased efforts to stabilize foreign trade and foreign investment, which have aided the development of foreign companies, including KPMG, in China during the hard times of . Notable measures in this aspect include facilitating the resumption of production by foreign trade enterprises and reducing their compliance costs strengthening support for export credit insurance and trade financing smoothing logistics and transportation helping foreignrelated enterprises greatly affected by the epidemic overcome difficulties increasing efforts to promote foreign investment and implementing the Foreign Investment Law and supporting regulations. A For multinational companies in China, it was not easy to adapt to the new normal under COVID, let alone the challenges brought by slowing economic growth, maturing markets, disruptive technologies and market entrants. However, as China made positive progress in fighting COVID, at the same time it has promoted the resumption of work and production in an orderly manner. These policies have greatly helped our business recovery and contributed to the recovery of the global economy and industrial chain, representing the key reason why KPMG Asia Pacific was the fastestgrowing region in our network. A For KPMG, it is worth building a new development pattern under the guidance of the new development philosophy. Instead of just talking about business issues, we made a conscious decision that we would begin from a position of empathy. We listened to concerns C personal and professional C of those in our communities and have now deepened our relationships. Along the way, our member firms also allocated time and effort to support those in our communities who needed help. These efforts to accommodate, empathize and help all speak to our values and our character. A Coordinated development is an important element in the new development philosophy, and it is also key to achieving highquality development. China is expected to put more effort into achieving coordinated development among its different regions and cities in the coming years. These efforts resonate with our strategies. Regional penetration has been one of the key focuses of KPMGs development strategy in recent years. KPMG will continue to advance our established strategic plans. By promoting codevelopment, we will reach different markets and customers through our targeted regional strategic layout and enhanced mutual trust. China continues to develop a marketoriented and international business environment built on a strong legal framework. This will promote a fairer, more active and more vibrant investment atmosphere, encourage more foreignfunded enterprises and overseas resources to integrate into the Chinese market, and promote mutual benefits and winwin results for all parties. A Chinas th FiveYear Plan has a strong future orientation. The major tasks of the plan are all geared at implementing the new development philosophy of innovation, coordination, green, openness and sharing. The regional development strategy, incorporated in the plan, will help unlock Chinas consumption potential, play an important role in medium and longterm economic growth and social stability, and can significantly enhance the power of economic internal circulation. Green development is another important aspect of the plan, as China aims to peak carbon emission by  and achieve carbon neutrality by . Mark Wang, president and chief executive officer of HSBC Bank China Company Limited. Photo provided to chinadaily.com.cn A China is at the heart of HSBCs growth strategy. As the worlds secondlargest economy and largest goods trader, the continuous openingup of its markets and its economic resilience amid the ongoing pandemic make China one of the most important markets to international businesses and remains a global supply chain hub. A The new development pattern is not a closed domestic circulation, but an open domestic and international dual circulation. It takes the domestic market as the mainstay while letting domestic and foreign markets boost each other. As a leading international bank with a global network covering  percent of the worlds trade and capital flows, our ability to connect China with the global economy and bring international businesses and investors to China enables us to make a unique contribution to building the new development pattern. A For international business, the commitments to ensuring stability on foreign trade, foreign investment and maintaining stable industrial and supply chains are most encouraging. It is a clear signal China wont stop opening up its domestic market, which has further boosted the confidence of global investors. We believe China will continue to be among the top destinations for global investors and further engage with other economies through deeper trade and investment ties. These will create huge business opportunities for international financial institutions such as HSBC. A In our view, Chinas new development stage is to build an open economy with higher standards and better quality. Under the new development pattern, we expect the government to further unleash domestic demand through structural reforms to boost private investment, support indigenous innovation and lift productivity growth, while continuously opening up its economy. In addition to bridging international business with China opportunities, we have also strived to support Chinas economic transformation and sustainable development. A The fastergrowing Asian markets, including China, remain central to HSBCs growth strategy. We are committed to continue investing in areas such as the Greater Bay Area, and supporting the countrys financial reforms and economic development. Thanks to its successful control of pandemic and strong policy support, China emerged as the only major economy to grow in  and is going to remain pivotal to the global economy for the foreseeable future. We expect the country to be the major engine for global economic growth in the coming years. We forecast a . percent GDP growth for the Chinese mainland in , and we raised our  growth forecast to . percent from . percent as China shows solid signs of recovery. A The th FiveYear Plan  guidance lists fostering highquality growth, enhancing innovation and improving domestic demand as top policy priorities for the next five years. It highlighted several key perspectives in Chinas financial reforms in the next five years, including expanding direct financing through capital market reforms and financial opening up, and deepening reforms in the banking sector to better support the real economy. Chinas further openingup can go a long way to attract more foreign companies in the years ahead. We will continue to leverage that to help customers connect with opportunities in China. Joost VlaanderenPresident of Mondelz Greater China. Photo provided to chinadaily.com.cn A China is an important growth engine for Mondelz International. With faster growth than our global average, China is playing an increasingly important role. For example, as of the third quarter of last year, Mondelz China had achieved growth for  consecutive quarters. A Mondelz has been proactively taking part in Chinas economic growth and benefited from policy support. This reinforces our confidence in China and encourages us to keep investing in this market. In the dualcirculation economy, Mondelz will strive to capture the opportunities of digitalization and industry upgrading. We will also collaborate with our partners to unleash the full potential of the domestic market. I believe the further openingup will create a more efficient, fairer and more transparent business environment. China will be further integrated into the global innovation ecosystem and industry chain. This will enhance the confidence of multinational corporations like Mondelz to seize the emerging opportunities for longterm investment and growth in China. A During COVID, the government firmly supported foreign companies to resume operations and facilitate foreign trade. Because of this, Mondelz became one of the earliest foreign companies to resume operations. This enabled Mondelz to seize the opportunities during this difficult time and keep navigating the emerging consumer trends throughout the pandemic to meet the needs of Chinese consumers. A China provides a very good example for the world. In the early stage of the pandemic, our local operations were impacted, but we managed to quickly recover thanks to the efficient control measures and timely supporting policies of the government. So far, Mondelz China has had zero infections. Our effective control measures and rapid recovery also provided the best practices to Mondelz worldwide. A In , the Chinese government achieved remarkable accomplishments in poverty alleviation, and decided to implement the rural revitalization strategy nationwide during the th FiveYear Plan period. We can see the changing needs of Chinese consumers to highend, highquality, personalized and diversified. This will create new growth opportunities and areas for Mondelz. We are confident in China, and will continue to invest and expand our footprints in China. A Were very much willing to bring Mondelzs popular products in overseas markets to Chinese consumers, and to promote the product development expertise and innovation obtained in the China market around the world. For foreign companies including Mondelz, an open trade policy is always welcome. We believe that Chinas business environment will become more open and more inclusive, and this will provide a bigger space for our operation and growth. A We found both Chinas th FiveYear Plan and  longterm development goals demonstrate that China sets clearer visionary goals for a bright future. It will accelerate the modernization progress and build harmonious and sustainable environment in the peopleoriented principle. We are encouraged by highlights such as strengthening intellectual property and rights protection and the increasing importance of sustainability. In Mondelz, we are driven by our purpose for a bright future where people and the planet can thrive together. We will continue to generate a sustainable impact on our consumers by providing the right snack, for the right moment, made in the right way. Zhu Wei, chairman of Accenture in China. Photo provided to chinadaily.com.cn A China is a key strategic market to Accenture. It is home to many excellent enterprises, as well as the most important market for many of our clients. Accenture has been operating in China for over  years with , people servicing clients across the region. We will continue to invest in our people and business in the market and develop deep local expertise and ecosystem partnerships. A With the fastgrowing digital economy in China, we believe the dualcirculation strategy presents good opportunities for companies to prioritize agile innovation, unlock the potential of digital technologies and adapt to challenging business environments. Accenture has been relentlessly tapping into opportunities to work sidebyside with Chinese companies in practicing digital transformation and applying innovations at scale. A Chinas actions to stabilize foreign investment and the related positive changes have brought vitality to Chinas economy. In the face of global economic uncertainties, weve seen Chinese companies are actively exploring digital technologies and accelerating their transformation. The openingup of trade, investment and technology allows companies to turn their innovative ideas into reality. A The speed with which China has mitigated the impact of COVID C from containment to resumption of operations to bolstering business vitality  is unprecedented. Digital business models and new technologies have been playing an important role in the nations success in safeguarding peoples livelihoods. With Chinas quick recovery, Accenture is also pivoting rapidly from maintaining undisrupted operations to staying relevant to clients by actively exerting our industrial capabilities and contributing our tailormade digital solutions to address the pressing digital transformation needs of local businesses from various industries. A In the new development stage, digital technology has become a key driver to Chinas highquality growth. With the digital economy growing fast in China, companies with topnotch digital maturity can better manage risks and navigate market changes. When applying new technologies, Chinese companies should build up digital proficiency across their core business and processes. A China is now the secondlargest digital economy in the world. Accenture has been leveraging our fullspan digital capabilities to support local businesses to unlock the enormous value promised by the digital economy. Looking ahead, we foresee innovations led by digital technologies such as cloud, artificial intelligence, data analytics, mobility and internet of thins will play an even more important role in driving the growth of the Chinese economy as well as the global economy, helping enterprises around the world increase efficiency and agility and explore new business opportunities. A As a key priority in Chinas th FiveYear Plan, the dualcirculation strategy aims to boost technology innovation, globalize Chinese enterprises and stimulate domestic demand. According to Accentures economic model, China could unlock . trillion in new economic value in  by breaking growth limits with new technologies and unchained innovation. Accenture is bringing more innovation to the business and technology ecosystems and helping Chinese enterprises to embrace digitization and enhance global competitiveness to succeed in the new era.