Teenagers honored for filial piety
2021/1/20 9:17
Chinese teen Wang Xiyu withdrew from the Australian Open on Sunday after testing positive for COVID in Abu Dhabi. XINHUA Wang Qiang and compatriots keep positive mindset as rivals complain over lockdown arrangements With COVID controversies clouding the Australian Open, Chinas focused aces are blocking out the noise to shape up for arguably their best shot at the tournament in years. Apart from the withdrawal of teenager Wang Xiyu due to a positive coronavirus test, the rest of the Chinese contingent have arrived in Melbourne safe and sound and are embracing the strict pandemic countermeasures imposed by Tennis Australia TA. Led by world No  Wang Qiang and No  Zhang Shuai, eight Chinese players have settled into their designated hotels in Melbourne after testing negative for the coronavirus upon landing in Australia on TApaid charter flights from multiple cities, including Abu Dhabi, Dubai and Singapore. By Tuesday, most of the Chinese players appeared to have been allowed to practice on court with their respective hitting partners, while visits to biosecure gyms were also permitted, amounting to five hours total training per day. Come out and enjoy the sunshine, Wang Qiang, who reached the last  last year, said on Tuesday in a Weibo post that was accompanied by photos of her training with new coach Pat Cash. Australian legend Cash, who won Wimbledon in , began working with Wang Qiang at her seasonopening event in Abu Dhabi, where she lost to Russias Daria Kasatkina in the first round on Jan . Another Chinese singles ace, Zhu Lin, ranked nd in the world, also expressed her appreciation to organizers for keeping the action going in challenging times. Finally starting to hit the ball on court after spending three days locked down in a hotel room, Zhu posted on Weibo with photos of an outdoor practice court. A big thanks for TAs arrangements and for taking care of us. Its unbelievable to imagine all the hard work by the organizers to make this happen. Really appreciate to have matches to play under the current circumstances. Delayed due to the pandemic, this years Australian Open will take place from Feb , with all players required to stay inside a biosecure bubble that encompasses the hotels and the competition venue. As Chinas sole wildcard entry in the womens singles, Wang Xiyu announced on Sunday from Abu Dhabi that she had to cancel her flight to Melbourne after her final virus test before boarding returned positivemuch to the yearolds disappointment. In order to prepare for the Australian Open, I arrived in Dubai last December. During the whole process, my team and I always followed the rules to take necessary protection like wearing masks, said Wang Xiyu, who won the  US Open girls tournament. I am currently in good condition without any symptoms. Life in quarantine is very boring, but I will do some physical training in the room. It is a pity, however, I will work hard to recover and hopefully return to the game in a healthy state as soon as possible. Hard lockdown With Chinese players doing their best to adopt a positive mindset, some of their foreign counterparts have voiced strong complaints over the tournaments COVID protocols. As of Monday,  players were placed into hard quarantine and are unable to train outside their rooms for  days because of positive cases on three charter flights into Melbourne. Spanish world No  Roberto Bautista Agut compared his hotel lockdown to like being in a jail. Its the same, but with wifi, Bautista Agut told Israeli television channel Sport . These people have no idea about tennis and about practice courts and its a complete disaster. Kazakhstans world No  Yulia Putintseva used the same analogy, telling her Instagram followers on Tuesday In jail at least you can go to breathe some fresh air two times a day. I understand that the government is trying to keep you safe. But its not that. They were probably supposed to cancel the tournament if its that dangerous. Just cancel it. World No  Novak Djokovic reportedly issued a list of demands in a letter to TA that included moving quarantined players into private homes with tennis courts and getting them better meals. That prompted the Serbs Australian rival Nick Kyrgios to call Djokovic a tool on Twitter. Kyrgios also took aim at fellow Australian player Bernard Tomics girlfriend, Vanessa Sierra, after she complained in an online video about cold food and having to wash her own hair in quarantine. I dont mind Bernie but his Mrs obviously has no perspective, ridiculous scenes, Kyrgios tweeted. Considering they have grown accustomed to strict COVID countermeasures back home, including repeated testing and quarantines, this years Australian Open looks like it could well suit the Chinese players better. The tournament has been the scene of numerous breakthroughs for Chinese players down the years, including retired Grand Slam winner Li Nas run to the womens singles title in , and Zheng Jie and Yan Zis doubles championship triumph in .