Virtual reception highlights SinoUS subnational exchanges
2021/10/13 10:41
A man carries a Union Jackthemed shopping bag as he walks along an empty shopping street in Blackpool, Britain, on March , .  Disease specialists have urged the authorities to prepare for a socalled twindemic this winter, where COVID and seasonal influenza outbreaks could increase pressure on health services and cause additional deaths. The term twindemic  which is a portmanteau of twin and pandemic  was coined last year, when experts first warned of the dual threats of flu and the novel coronavirus. Flu outbreaks were, in fact, kept to historically low levels last winter in many parts of the world, most likely due to COVID lockdowns, the wearing of masks, hand washing, and social distancing. But experts are sounding the alarm again in the wake of many governments loosening COVID restrictions. We are likely to see the flu for the first time in any real numbers, cocirculating with COVID, Jenny Harries, chief executive of the United Kingdom Health Security Agency, told Sky News. The risks of catching both together still remain. And if you do that, then early evidence suggests that you are twice as likely to die from having two together, than just having COVID alone. A  Public Health England hospital study of seriously ill patients found  percent of people with both flu and COVID died, compared to  percent of those who tested positive for COVID alone. Of patients in the study who only had the flu, . percent died. Last week, the United States Centers for Disease Control, or CDC, warned that the US was at risk of a severe flu season, since the mild flu season last winter may have led to reduced immunity in the general population. This low flu activity was likely due to the widespread implementation of COVID preventive measures, like masks, physical distancing, and staying home, CDC Director Rochelle Walensky said in a briefing on flu vaccination efforts. I get it, we are all tired of talking about vaccines, Walensky added, before noting it had become doubly important to seek treatment as we are preparing for the return of the flu. The UK government launched a new television commercial last week urging people who are eligible for free flu vaccines and COVID boosters to book their shots ahead of the colder months. The government said the  flu campaign will be the biggest in history and that it anticipates the flu will pose a far larger threat this year. Not many people got flu last year because of COVID restrictions, so there isnt as much natural immunity in our communities as usual, said Englands deputy chief medical officer, Jonathan VanTam. We will see flu circulating this winter it might be higher than usual and that makes it a significant public health concern.