Latest on the COVID outbreak
2021/1/20 0:00
The turning of the US Capitol into a fortress of fences, concrete barriers and security checkpoints continued on Monday, as thousands of National Guard troops and federal and local law enforcement officers remained vigilant for any threats before the inauguration of Presidentelect Joe Biden. Meanwhile, law enforcement officials are vetting airplane passengers at airports across the nation, putting any who have been identified among the violent protesters at the Capitol on Jan  on a no fly list. And the FBI and US Army, prompted by some current and former police officers and military personnel who joined the attack on the Capitol, screened National Guard troops in the capital for any extremist elements among the thousands of troops. To get a glimpse of how careful authorities in the capital are being following the deadly Jan  attack on the US Capitol, the Capitol complex temporarily locked down for about an hour on Monday morning during a rehearsal for the Wednesday event. The lockdown was ordered and some participants were evacuated after a fire in a nearby homeless encampment sent a plume of smoke into the air and caused security concerns. The rehearsal resumed not long after when the fire had been extinguished. Biden has urged his supporters not to travel to Washington for his inauguration on Wednesday, which President Donald Trump said he wont attend. Trump continues to claim the election was stolen from him. William Banks, distinguished professor emeritus at the Syracuse University College of Law in New York, said that only once in US history, just after the Civil War, has a departing president not attended the inauguration. The ceremony will also be dramatically affected by the pandemic, and by the extraordinary security necessitated by the attack on the Capitol on Jan , he said. District of Columbia Mayor Muriel Bowser also asked Americans not to come to Washington for Bidens inauguration, fearing violence and the spread of the coronavirus. Our goals right now are to encourage Americans to participate virtually and to protect the District of Columbia from a repeat of the violent insurrection experienced at the Capitol and its grounds on Jan , Bowser said at a news conference. The traditional parade of military units and bands on Pennsylvania Avenue that draws hundreds of thousands of people and is reviewed by the new president and vicepresident has been replaced by a virtual parade. According to the National Park Services list of inauguration permit applications it has received through the end of January, only one permit, which was still being processed, was explicitly proTrump. Journalists covering the inauguration also were preparing for possible violence, with CNN reporting that news organizations were giving staffers gas masks, helmets and body armor. At least nine journalists were physically assaulted, at least five were arrested and at least four had equipment damaged while covering the storming of the Capitol, officials said. Monday was a national holiday in observance of the birthday of the civil rights icon Martin Luther King, but the memorial in the capital is closed to the public through Thursday. The National Mall, the Washington Monument and other public landmarks were inaccessible, bridges were shut down and Metro rail stations shuttered. Streets from the Capitol, where the inauguration of the th president will take place, to the White House are closed, and some residents had to show identification to get home. Ken Cuccinelli, acting deputy secretary of Homeland Security, told the TV current affairs program  Minutes that National Guard members in the nations capital have sworn an oath to the Constitution, and they will do whatever it takes to keep Americans safe. Were going to complete our jobs. Theres not a standdown. We have a statutory mission were going to perform under all circumstances. And I think that hypothetical is not going to happen. Its unimaginable, Cuccinelli said. As the FBI issued a warning last week of armed protests in all  state capitals during the presidential transition this week, at least  states have mobilized their National Guard to help protect their capitol buildings. Some states, such as Michigan, canceled legislative sessions and closed their capitols through Wednesday. In Sacramento, California, police backed by , National Guard troops have been deployed at the state Capitol until Wednesdays presidential inauguration. Surrounded by a .meterhigh chainlink fence, the building also has armed officers to confront violent protesters. But none arrived. Meanwhile, on Monday, Biden spokeswoman Jen Psaki dismissed Trumps plan to lift travel restrictions on much of Europe and Brazil. Trump said in a proclamation that the travel restrictions imposed on the Schengen area of Europe, as well as Britain, Ireland and Brazil, would be terminated effective on Jan , the same day that the US requires all travelers to test negative for COVID before flying to the country. With the pandemic worsening, and more contagious variants emerging around the world, this is not the time to be lifting restrictions on international travel, Psaki said on social media. Chen Yingqun in Beijing, May Zhou in Houston, Xinhua and agencies contributed to this story. Contact the writers at aihepingchinadailyusa.com People are evacuated from the US Capitol on Monday after a fire at a homeless camp near the building caused security concerns and interrupted a rehearsal for Wednesdays inauguration of Presidentelect Joe Biden. CAROLYN KASTERAP