Infection risk adds to Indonesian quake woes, while UK tightens curbs
2021/1/19 10:12
An excavator is used on Sunday to help rescuers look for victims after an earthquake that struck the district of Mamuju in Indonesias West Sulawesi Province on Friday. HARIANDI HAFIDGETTY IMAGES MAMUJU, IndonesiaMedics battled exhaustion and the risk of COVID as they raced on Monday to treat scores of people injured by a devastating earthquake on Indonesias island of Sulawesi. At least  people were killed and thousands left homeless by the powerful .magnitude quake that struck on Friday, reducing buildings to a tangled mass of twisted metal and chunks of concrete in the seaside city of Mamuju. The National Disaster Mitigation Agency said  people died in Mamuju and  in Majene, and about , survivors were moved to shelters. Nearly  people were injured, with more than half still receiving treatment for serious injuries. Masked doctors treated patients with broken limbs and other injuries at a makeshift medical center set up outside the only one of the citys hospitals that survived the quake relatively intact. The patients keep coming, said Nurwardi, manager of operations at Mamujus West Sulawesi General Hospital. This is the only hospital operating in the city. Many need surgery but we have limited resources and medicine. The openair triage center was desperately short of staff. Those on hand worked frantically despite the risk of contracting coronavirus. The disaster agencys chief, Doni Monardo, said authorities were trying to separate high and lowerrisk groups. They provided tens of thousands of anticoronavirus masks for those needing shelters. He said authorities would set up health posts at the camps to test people for the virus. West Sulawesi Province has recorded more than , cases of coronavirus, including  deaths. Indonesia has confirmed nearly , cases and almost , fatalities. Global cases surpassed  million as of Monday, with more than  million deaths, according to Johns Hopkins University. A man receives a COVID vaccine inside Birminghams Lichfield Cathedral on Friday. The church is one of the many buildings converted into vaccination centers in England. CARL RECINEREUTERS New quarantine rules In the United Kingdom, where the COVID vaccination drive is gathering pace, strict new quarantine rules requiring isolation for up to  days for all travelers arriving in the country begin on Monday in an effort to halt the spread of the highly contagious virus variants. Britains Foreign Secretary, Dominic Raab, told the BBCs The Andrew Marr Show on Sunday that the measures, announced on Friday, would be enforced with fines. Authorities would be stepping up checks on travelers who must selfisolate, while enforcement checks at borders would also be ramped up. Passengers must show proof of a negative COVID test taken in the previous  hours before traveling, and GPS and facialrecognition technology may be used to check that people are staying in isolation, according to a report in The Times. Raab said asking all arrivals to selfisolate in hotels was a potential measure the government was keeping under review. Mutant viruses might be immune to the vaccines Britain has acquired, the government fears, and sources told The Times that ministers are now examining New Zealands policy of directed isolation, whereby everyone arriving is charged for a stay at an airport hotel. While the pandemic forced the UK to shut its borders, Australias chief medical officer said a full reopening of the countrys borders is unlikely this year. Brendan Murphy, who headed Australias initial response to COVID as the chief medical officer before becoming the Secretary of the Department of Health, said on Monday fullscale travel to and from Australia would likely not resume until . I think well go most of this year with substantial border restrictions, he said. Even if we have a lot of the population vaccinated we dont know whether that will prevent transmission of the virus and its likely that quarantine will continue for some time. Australias borders were closed to noncitizens and nonresidents from March , . Jonathan Powell in London, Xinhua and agencies contributed to this story.