UKs retail logistics sector booming
2021/1/19 9:37
People wearing protective masks walk past a window display of a closed retail store in London, Britain, Dec , .  Investment in warehouses and storage facilities in the United Kingdom is booming with the shift to ecommerce creating record levels of demand for space to store retail goods for distribution. Property company Savills reported that investment in the logistics sector was up by  percent last year, reaching . billion pounds . billion, which eclipsed the  previous record high by  million pounds. The novel coronavirus pandemic has forced shoppers online and led to the stockpiling of essential goods in large warehouses, as investors seek to transfer cash from struggling office properties and retail centers. Blackstones  million pound purchase of a logistics platform from another US business, the worlds largest warehouse company, Prologis, in October, was the biggest deal of the year, according to the Financial Times. Savills highlighted that companies last year signed leases on  million square feet . million square meters of warehouse space, surpassing the previous record of  million square feet, which pushed the vacancy rate down to . percent. The UKs logistics sector now supports . million jobs and that number is rising, according to the Sunday Times, noting that fastfashion giants Asos and Boohoo this month announced plans for warehouses that will create , jobs. It added that the proportion of retail sales made online has almost doubled to  percent during the pandemic and that nobody expects it to sink back to the previous level once all shops reopen. Nick Preston, fund manager at Tritax, which invests in European logistics real estate, told the Financial Times that virtually every investor was looking at the sector in . Its the biggest herd of wildebeests youve ever seen fareastern investors, European institutions and private equity players wanting exposure to the sector. The Sunday Times noted that after investing in the sector for two decades, Prologis is now worth . billion, and that Blackstone sold its European portfolio Logicor for  billion pounds to the China Investment Corporation in . James Seppala, Blackstones head of European real estate, told the paper that the company is continuing to invest actively in logistics across Europe, including in the UK. He said We expect continued growth in demand because of changing consumer habits, which are a very powerful tailwind. Online retail giant Amazon signed leases on a series of multimillionsquare foot facilities around England last year, including  million pounds for land designated for housebuilders in northwest London. The Sunday Times noted how this acquisition revealed the intense competition between warehouse operators and housebuilders for land on the edge of cities. It reported that investors are searching for opportunities to repurpose other spaces, noting that last month, the City of London Corporation agreed to allow Amazon to convert part of an underused car park into a mini delivery hub. David Sleath, chief executive of Segro, a FTSE  company, suggested flats could soon be built on top of warehouses to satisfy demand for housing. He said facilities might even be constructed underground.