Zhongguancun Forum exhibition showcases newest tech
2021/10/13 10:06
Texas Governor Greg Abbott  Governor Greg Abbott has issued another executive order prohibiting vaccine mandates by any entity in Texas, reversing his position of leaving the issue to private companies. Abbott had issued an executive order in August banning only government entities from mandating COVID vaccines. In announcing his decision Monday on Twitter, the governor also said that he added the ban on all vaccine mandates to the Texas Legislatures special session, which will conclude on Oct . The COVID vaccine is safe, effective, and our best defense against the virus, but should always remain voluntary  never forced, Abbott tweeted. Abbott also had banned mask mandates in May. That maskban order is being challenged in court by  or so school districts from Houston, Dallas, Austin, San Antonio and other parts of Texas. Conversely, Abbott is also suing more than a dozen school districts for ignoring his mask ban. The Texas Legislature also has banned businesses from requiring proof of COVID vaccination from customers. Abbotts latest order seemed to aim at the Biden administrations requirement issued last month that all federal employees and contractors be vaccinated. In yet another instance of federal overreach, the Biden Administration is now bullying many private entities into imposing COVID vaccine mandates, causing workforce disruptions that threaten Texass continued recovery from the COVID disaster, Abbott said in his executive order. The Biden administration mandate has prompted most major US airlines  they are considered federal contractors  to require their workers to get vaccinated. United Airlines said the order made many vaccine holdouts change their mind as they risked losing their jobs, according to CBS. As of Sept ,  employees refused to get the vaccine by Oct , that number decreased to , the company said. Only  percent of Uniteds US employees have not been vaccinated. Delta Air Lines took a different approach. CEO Ed Bastian said there is a permonth surcharge for unvaccinated staff, and the carriers compliance rate was at  percent. Dallasbased Southwest Airlines canceled nearly , flights over the weekend and more than  on Monday. Some people claimed it was the result of a protest against the federal vaccine mandate. Southwests CEO Gary Kelly told CNBC on Tuesday that wasnt the case, and the vaccine issue had zero contribution to the cancellations. Kelly also said that his company is encouraging employees to get vaccinated by offering the equivalent of two days pay for them to turn in their vaccination card to achieve the goal of complying with the federal mandate. The latest data from Texas Department of Health and Human Service show that . percent of people age  and older are fully vaccinated. Abbotts order was viewed as another concession to conservatives from his Republican Party. His primaryelection opponent, Don Huffines, a former state senator from Dallas, has been pushing the governor to crack down on vaccine mandates. I am very pleased to see that our campaign has forced Greg Abbott to reverse his position on this important issue, Huffines said in a statement Monday.