US COVID cases top  mln two days from new administration
2021/1/19 4:11
 WASHINGTON  US COVID confirmed cases topped  million, with total deaths approaching , on Monday, two days ahead of Presidentelect Joe Bidens inauguration. The country recorded over . million cases and more than , deaths as of  pm Monday, according to a tally by Johns Hopkins University JHU. Just a little more than halfway into January, the United States has added a staggering . million new COVID cases and more than , virusrelated deaths, said a report by CNN on Monday. The level of transmission in the United States is screaming, Peter Hotez, dean of the National School of Tropical Medicine at Baylor College of Medicine, told CNN Sunday night. It took the United States  days to reach  million COVID cases, according to JHU data. It took the nation only  days to have the second  million cases. The United States, which makes up  percent of the worlds population, accounts for about  percent of global COVID deaths. According to the latest projections of the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention CDC, , to , new deaths will likely be reported in the week ending Feb . A total of , to , COVID deaths will be reported by this date. This is a staggering and mindnumbing number, Sourabh Gupta, a senior fellow at the Washingtonbased Institute for ChinaAmerica Studies, said of the surging US COVID cases and deaths in a recent interview with Xinhua. Yet, we still have to cope with nonsensical debates about individual freedoms and maskwearing, Gupta said. A vacuum of leadership, coupled with incompetency in the country to take early action to prevent the spread of the virus even after the COVID virus had been identified has all contributed to the US failure, Sarwar A. Kashmeri, an international relations analyst at Norwich University, told Xinhua. Political polarization and a rejection of science have stymied the US ability to control the COVID pandemic, said a New York Times article on Sunday. That has been clearest and most damaging at the federal level, where Mr. Trump claimed that the virus would disappear, clashed with his top scientists and, in a pivotal failure, abdicated responsibility for a pandemic that required a national effort to defeat it, handing key decisions over to states under the assumption that they would take on the fight and get the country back to business, said the article titled One Year, , Coronavirus Deaths How the US Guaranteed Its Own Failure. But governors and local officials who were left in charge of the crisis squandered the little momentum the country had as they sidelined health experts, ignored warnings from their own advisers and, in some cases, stocked their advisory committees with more business representatives than doctors, it said. Though vaccinations are underway in the United States, containing the pandemic is one of the gravest national challenges Bidens new team faces as it takes office on Jan . Biden hopes to administer  million doses of twostage coronavirus vaccines in his first  days. Biden also plans to sign an executive order requiring masks on federal property and during interstate travel and is urging all Americans to wear face coverings for  days. In the United States, there has been a great deal of misinformation and confusion about COVID, John Manzella, editorinchief of The Manzella Report, told Xinhua. As a result, many Americans still do not understand the importance of wearing a mask or social distancing  a problem that very likely has resulted in higher COVID casualties, he said. The rollout of vaccines for COVID has been slower than expected in the country. The Donald Trump administration planned to inject  million Americans by the end of . However, only about . million doses have been administered as of Jan , according to the US CDC.