No masking the NHLs new normal
2021/1/18 9:14
Coaches coming to terms with leagues latest coronavirus countermeasures Florida Panthers head coach Joel Quenneville works with left wing Grigori Denisenko during training camp in Sunrise, Florida, on Jan .Mask wearing is compulsory for coaches at practices and on the bench during games this season. AP Winnipeg coach Paul Maurice struggled to blow a whistle while wearing a mask. Barry Trotz couldnt see if one of his New York Islanders players was skating toward him because his mask had helped fog up his glasses. It was ugly there for a while, Maurice said. Theres some challenges to it. One of the new challenges for NHL coaches this season is the requirement to wear a mask behind the bench during games and on the ice for practices. Now that goaltenders wont be the only masked men around the rink, coaches will learn and adjust on the fly like those in other sports have had to in recent months. Just being around the rink all day wearing one is an adjustment, but well work it out, Joel Quenneville of the Florida Panthers said. Sometimes when you really want to get your point across, you might have to pull your mask down to make yourself clear. But Ive never changed lines with a face mask on. Carolina Hurricanes head coach Rod BrindAmour is masked up during training camp in Morrisville, North Carolina, on Jan . AP Hockey coaches are more responsible than their counterparts in baseball, football or basketball to bark out directions in real time at a fast pace, which makes this an even steeper learning curve. Get ready for loud yelling and maybe a few more bench minor penalties for too many men on the ice. I used to have a big moustache, maybe that was kind of like a mask, Dave Tippett of the Edmonton Oilers said. Im a mumbler at the best of times. Youll have to be really clear with whos going on line changes. Its clear that most coaches wont complain about the extra safety measure to prevent virus spread. Quenneville and his staff have talked about NFL coaches being fined for not wearing face coverings correctly and how theyve adapted. NHL commissioner Gary Bettman told coaches and executives that protocols are not a suggestion or a recommendation and the league will vigorously enforce them. Im going to have to do my absolute best to make sure it stays on and stays right, DJ Smith of the Ottawa Senators said. Ultimately the leagues doing it for a reason, and its the safety, and Ill abide by all the rules. Chicago Blackhawks head coach Jeremy Colliton gets his message across while wearing a face mask in Chicago on Jan . AP So will John Tortorella, who told the Columbus Blue Jackets on the first day of camp he doesnt want to hear any complaining about health and safety protocols. He said wearing a mask is important and added It doesnt affect me, it will not affect the other coaches. Colleagues also see it as personal responsibility. Its the right move under these circumstances, David Quinn of the New York Rangers said. If it helps a little bit, we should all do it, so certainly our staff is embracing it. Our organizations embracing it and were just going to have to manage it. There are some benefits. Maurice suggested keeping the television cameras off him during games because they wont be able to pick up anything hes saying anyway. Gonefor noware the days of reading lips of coaches swearing at officials or each other. Probably be good for me, Peter Laviolette of the Washington Capitals said. Nobody will see whats coming out of my mouth. My mother will be happy. AP