Travelers to UK must test negative first
2021/1/18 1:51
People wearing face masks wait at a bus stop, amidst the current lockdown restrictions, as the spread of the coronavirus disease COVID continues, in London, Britain January , .  London also orders arrivals to spend up to  days in selfisolation as rules righten While the United Kingdoms COVID vaccination drive gathers pace, strict new quarantine rules requiring isolation for up to  days for all travelers arriving in the country begin on Monday, in an effort to halt the spread of feared virus variants. Britains foreign secretary, Dominic Raab, told the BBCS The Andrew Marr Show on Sunday that the measures, announced on Friday, would be enforced with fines and that authorities would be stepping up checks on travelers who must selfisolate, while enforcement checks at borders would also be ramped up. Passengers must show proof of a negative COVID test taken in the previous  hours before traveling, and GPS and facialrecognition technology may be used to check that people are staying in isolation, according to a report in The Times. Raab said that asking all arrivals to selfisolate in hotels was a potential measure the government was keeping under review. Mutant viruses might be immune to the vaccines Britain has acquired, the government fears, and sources told The Times that ministers are now examining New Zealands policy of directed isolation, where everyone arriving is charged for a stay at an airport hotel. It is understood that the new restrictions will remain in place for a month and follow the emergence of two new novel coronavirus variants from Brazil that have worried authorities. Flights from South America, Portugal and Cape Verde have been banned entirely. Ten new vaccination centers are due to open in England on Monday as the vaccination drive gains momentum. This adds to seven existing mass vaccination sites across the country, along with , local surgeries and more than  hospitals already providing jabs. The Telegraph has reported that government figures believe every adult in Britain could be vaccinated by the end of June. Senior government sources told the paper that the target could now realistically be achieved as they plan to vaccinate  to  million people a week within months. However, ministers expressed concern about the governments only official public target, to offer the jab to . million Britons by Feb , due to manufacturing delays from Pfizer and AstraZeneca. The Telegraphs source said additional vaccines from Moderna and Johnson  Johnson could help the UK speed up the process to vaccinate all  million adults. All overs by June  yes, the source was quoted to have said, and added, It is delivery, delivery, delivery. The Department of Health and Social Care has said more than . million people have now been vaccinated in the UK, including  percent of those aged  and older in England. Raab said if  percent of the most vulnerable groups have received their first jab, as intended, by midFebruary, then if we have succeeded in hitting those targets ... we can start to think about the phased transition out of the national lockdown, which would be in March. The Times noted that ministers have said privately that they would resist pressure from scientists to prolong the harsh restrictions beyond that point. The chief executive of the National Health Service, Simon Stevens, said on Sunday the vaccination effort is on course to reach . million doses by the end of this week, which would be  million more given than the previous week. Speaking on the The Andrew Marr Show, Stevens said This is a unique event in our year history, its become glib to talk about this as the worst pandemic in a century, but that is clearly correct. We have got threequarters more COVID inpatients now then we had in the April peak. The severe impact of the pandemic on education in the UK remains in focus after university lecturers vowed not to resume unsafe facetoface teaching this academic year, The Guardian reported. The University and College Union warned that any attempt by the government or universities to reopen campuses in February will fail while staff feel it is unsafe. Meanwhile, Reuters news agency reported that in France, a curfew to contain the spread of a more infectious variant of the virus was brought forward on Saturday, emptying streets across the nation. The more transmissible variant, first detected in Britain, is believed to account for about  percent of new cases. Fatalities from the virus in France have reached ,, the seventh highest toll in the world.