Security tight at state capitals
2021/1/18 0:00
Tension was high across the United States on Sunday amid threats by protesters to descend on statehouses throughout the nation, as law enforcement officials girded for possible violence ahead of Presidentelect Joe Bidens inauguration in Washington, DC, on Wednesday. More than a dozen states activated National Guard troops to help secure their capitol buildings following an FBI warning of armed protests, with extremists emboldened by the deadly attack on the US Capitol building in Washington on Jan . There were scattered demonstrations on Saturday, but statehouses remained mostly quiet. Law enforcement officials were focused on Sunday, since that was when the extremist boogaloo movement had made plans weeks ago to hold rallies in all  states. The FBI warned police agencies of possible armed demonstrations outside all  state capitol buildings through the inauguration on Wednesday, fueled by Trump supporters who believe there was election fraud, Reuters reported. In the US capital and at state capitals across the country, law enforcement authorities backed by National Guard troops braced for possible violent protests. Major General William Walker, the commanding general of the District of Columbia National Guard, said on Saturday that about , guardsmen were in the district and up to , were expected by Tuesday night, the eve of the inauguration. On Saturday, more troops arrived in Washington via National Guard planes, rented buses and military trucks, The Associated Press reported. The National Guard troops were being housed in some  hotels across the region, some outside the district itself, Walker said. Alongside the unprecedented show of force, security measures by shops and restaurants have been ramped up in the US capital. Windows and doors of some buildings along Connecticut Avenue in northwestern Washington have been boarded up. In addition, the states of Michigan, Virginia, Wisconsin, Pennsylvania and Washington have activated their National Guards to strengthen security. In Michigan, where armed protesters entered the capitol in Lansing in April, a commission that manages the building and its grounds has voted to ban the open carrying of guns in the building. We are prepared for the worst, but we remain hopeful that those who choose to demonstrate at our Capitol do so peacefully, Colonel Joseph Gasper, Michigan State Police director, said during a security briefing on Friday. Meanwhile, on Wednesday, Inauguration Day, Biden will sign orders for the US to rejoin the Paris climate accord, reverse Trumps ban on people from certain Muslim majority countries from entering the US, and address the raging coronavirus pandemic by issuing a mask mandate, according to a memo circulated by Ron Klain, Bidens incoming White House chief of staff. Presidentelect Biden will take actionnot just to reverse the gravest damages of the Trump administrationbut also to start moving our country forward, Klain said, as police conducted a nationwide security operation ahead of the inauguration. An inauguration rehearsal scheduled for Sunday was postponed to Monday because of security concerns, Politico reported. Bidens team also canceled the presidentelects plan to travel on Monday by Amtrak train from Wilmington, his hometown, to Washington, DC, also due to heightened security concerns, according to US media reports. At noon on Wednesday, Biden and VicePresidentelect Kamala Harris will be sworn in on the steps of the Capitol. Three former US presidentsBill Clinton, George W. Bush and Barack Obamaand their spouses, along with VicePresident Mike Pence, Supreme Court justices and members of Congress, will be seated there. President Trump has said he will skip the inauguration. The protest and rioting in Washington on Jan , which left five dead after supporters of Trump stormed the US Capitol, has prompted soulsearching. Nearly threefourths of voters surveyed said democracy is in trouble in the country, according to a Quinnipiac University national poll released last week. Im a little surprised at that number, because you would actually think it would be  percent. Like everybody should recognize democracys in trouble when people are storming the Capitol building, Darrell West, director of governance studies at The Brookings Institution, said in a podcast on Friday. As of Friday, the National Park Service had issued only two permits that together allow for  people to demonstrate around the inauguration site, according to Mike Litterst, a spokesman for the federal agency. The Park Service was also processing five permit applications, including two requests for events at which , people were expected, he said. Workers used cranes to place concrete barriers throughout Washington, where National Guard troops with rifles were stationed at intervals. The National Mall and other iconic district landmarks were also blocked off, and bridges into the city were to be closed, along with dozens of roads. In downtown Washington, officers arrested a Virginia man who presented an unauthorized inauguration credential at a Capitol Police checkpoint on Friday evening. He was found to have a loaded handgun and more than  rounds of ammunition, according to court papers. The man was driving a pickup truck with several firearmrelated bumper stickers, the court papers said. Responding to news of the arrest, Democratic Representative Don Beyer of Virginia said the danger was real and the city was on edge. Anyone who can avoid the area around the Capitol and Mall this week should do so, Beyer wrote on social media. Last week, military leaders appealed to state governors for more National Guard troops for Washington. The governors, who have authority over their respective National Guards, sent anywhere from a few dozen to , each. Others declined to do so, in order to protect their own state capitals. Appeals for more Guard troops underscore the Pentagons limits on the use of activeduty troops. Under the law, they cant be used for law enforcement, and officials are determined to avoid the appearance of armed activeduty forces being used against US citizens on American soil. Many of the National Guard troops will be armed. Oregon agreed to send  troops to Washington, but Governor Kate Brown said she turned down the federal request to send at least  more. I didnt think that we could safely fill that commitment, Brown said. State leaders were worried about violence at the state capitol in Salem. Connecticut initially agreed to send  Guard troops and on Friday agreed to send  more. The peaceful transfer of power is a central tenet of American democracy, and Connecticut stands ready to aid in the protection of our country, said Connecticut Governor Ned Lamont. Several other governors increased their initial commitment of troops. Several states were closing their capitols. Texas closed its through Inauguration Day. Illinois Governor J.B. Pritzker said on Friday that while his state hadnt received any specific threats, he was increasing security around the Capitol in Springfield, including adding about  National Guard troops. Concern extended beyond legislatures. The United Church of Christ, a Protestant denomination of more than , churches, warned its , members that there were reports liberal churches could be attacked in the coming week. Agencies contributed to this story. Contact the writer at aihepingchinadailyusa.com Virginia National Guard soldiers march to their posts at the US Capitol on Saturday. In the nations capital and in state capitals, preparations were underway for the possibility of violent protests. SAMUEL CORUMAFP A worker prepares the site on Saturday for Presidentelect Joe Bidens inauguration ceremony at the US Capitol in Washington, DC. PATRICK SEMANSKYAP