Virus control measures must be reasonable China Daily editorial
2021/1/17 19:41
A staff member works in a temporary COVID testing lab in Wangkui county, Northeast Chinas Heilongjiang province, Jan , .  That the number of new confirmed local infections of the novel coronavirus has been more than  nationwide for three consecutive days warrants swift preemptive actions in all localities. Preemptive measures such as temperature checks for all people entering public venues, banning unnecessary gatherings and requiring all residents to wear face masks in public venues and practice social distancing are essential. Not least because new infections will continue to increase in those high risk areas until the transmission chains are cut, and there is the possibility for infected people who are asymptomatic and have not yet been placed under quarantine to carry the virus wherever they go. It is quite possible for asymptomatic virus carriers to pass the virus on to others via objects both parties touch, since the colder temperatures mean the virus can stay alive much longer on the surfaces of things. High vigilance and preemptive control and prevention measures are therefore more than necessary to prevent the possible outbreak of a widespread epidemic developing from sporadic infections. However, such preemptive measures must be implemented rationally. Some localities require that anyone from anywhere else, even those from norisk areas, must be placed under medical quarantine for three weeks in designated hotels before they observe selfquarantine for another seven days. This is too much. They are even required to pay all the expenses for their stay. The central authorities have emphasized that control and preventive measures must be reasonable and rational. There are strict stipulations for quarantines that should be abided by. Spring Festival, the most important traditional festival for family reunions, falls on Feb  this year. Although many localities have called on residents to stay where they are during the holiday, people in lowrisk areas should be able to travel to other lowrisk areas to enjoy family reunions or tourism. Local governments must attach importance to the control and prevention of the spread of the virus. But at the same time, they must take into consideration not just the overall situation of pandemic control, but also their local conditions. They must make targeted policies and have the policies carried out in as detailed a manner as possible so that the spread of the virus can be effectively contained while permitting residents to enjoy the Spring Festival holiday as much as they can. It is lazy and irresponsible for a local government to enforce preemptive measures regardless of the actual local situation. All factors must be taken into consideration.