Critical supplies for N Chinas Hebei outbreak arrive from Hubei
2021/1/17 18:02
A vehicle to be used for nucleic acid testing, donated by Wuhan Bus Manufacturing Co and MGI Tech Co, arrives at a tollgate in Shijiazhuang, North Chinas Hebei province, on Jan , . Photo by Wang Zhuangfeichinadaily.com.cn A line of ambulances was waiting when an wheeler pulled into a logistics park in the city of Shijiazhuang in North Chinas Hebei province C a recent novel coronavirus hot spot C at about  pm on Sunday. Laden with surgical masks, thermometer guns and other donations from Central Chinas Hubei province, the truck was accompanied by a . million yuan , worth of vehicle to be used for nucleic acid testing donated by the Wuhan Bus Manufacturing Co and MGI Tech Co, a biotech firm in Shenzhen, South Chinas Guangdong province. The portable lab, which carries machines equipped with software for conducting nucleic acid tests, was customdesigned to help unroll mass testing campaigns and pinpoint COVID infections. Wu Jiang, a technician with the Wuhan Bus Manufacturing Co, said people in Hubei province, where Wuhan is the capital city, would never forget the generous donations from Hebei when Wuhan was hit hard by the virus. Were in the same boat, and we will work together to overcome the difficulties, he said. Drivers got out of the vehicles and loitered in the yard after driving more than  hours almost nonstop from Hubei. I feel relieved to finally get the supplies to Shijiazhuang, said Zhu Jinguo, who drove the bus. Meanwhile, workers from the local Red Cross raced to unload the supplies to the ambulances. Hao Jianqiang, a senior official with Red Cross Society of China Hebei Branch, said all the virusrelated supplies are dispatched to hospitals in need immediately upon arrival. With the newlyarrived supplies counted, virusrelated donations so far are valued at  million yuan, which started streaming into the organization in large quantities on Jan , he said. Donors include individuals and businesses, he added. The ambulances waited to ship the supplies to  local hospitals, which are at the forefront of the citys campaign to test its  million residents and cure its approximately  confirmed patients. Xu Kehua, deputy head of the Industry and Information Technology Department of Hebei province, thanked Hubei province for the donation, which is worth a total  million yuan, with the mobile lab included. The supplies also included , thermometer guns,  million surgical masks and , smallsize masks for children, he added. When we knew about the donation, we worked with the local transportation authorities to ensure they arrived on time, he said. A vehicle to be used for nucleic acid testing, donated by Wuhan Bus Manufacturing Co and MGI Tech Co, arrives at a tollgate in Shijiazhuang, North Chinas Hebei province, on Jan , . Photo by Wang Zhuangfeichinadaily.com.cn Officials with the Red Cross Society of China Hebei Branch present a donation certificate to guests from Wuhan, Central Chinas Hubei province. Photo by Wang Zhuangfeichinadaily.com.cn Workers with the Red Cross Society of China Hebei Branch race to unload the supplies donated by Central Chinas Hubei province. Photo by Wang Zhuangfeichinadaily.com.cn Workers with the Red Cross Society of China Hebei Branch race to unload the supplies donated by Central Chinas Hubei province. Photo by Wang Zhuangfeichinadaily.com.cn