Daily COVID cases in Africa exceed first waves peak
2021/1/15 17:40
A traveler is tested for the coronavirus disease amid a nationwide COVID lockdown, at the Grasmere Toll Plaza in Lenasia, South Africa, Jan , .  Daily coronavirus cases in Africa have exceeded the first wave, with cumulative cases surpassing  million as the continent is confronted with emerging variants of the virus. According to the World Health Organization, an average of , cases was reported daily across Africa between Dec  and Jan . This figure is nearly  percent higher than the July  twoweek peak of , daily average cases. WHO has warned the numbers may rise further in the wake of traveling, gathering and festivities over the Christmas and New Year holidays. As of Jan , the continent had recorded a total of ,, infection cases, translating to . percent of the total cases reported globally, and , deaths, accounting for . percent of the global figure. According to the Africa Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, from Jan  to  the continent reported , new cases, translating to a  percent increase over the previous week. During the same period, the continent reported , new deaths, representing a  percent increase in deaths over the previous week. The Southern Africa recorded the highest number of new infection cases over the period, standing at  percent, followed by the Northern Africa at  percent, the Western Africa with  percent, the Eastern Africa with  percent and Central Africa with  percent cases. South Africa recorded the highest number of new cases at ,, followed by Tunisia with ,, Morocco with ,, Nigeria with , and Egypt with ,. According to the Africa CDC, over the past four weeks the continent has recorded an  percent average increase in new cases each week. In addition to the steep increase of infection cases from late November, a new virus dubbed Y.V is circulating widely in South Africa, accounting for most new infections in the country during the second wave. WHO said genomic sequencing has found the variant present in Botswana, Gambia and Zambia. Nigeria is also carrying out more investigations on a variant identified in samples collected in August and October. The UN agency said deeper investigations are underway to fully understand the epidemiological implications, even though there are no indications the new variant increases the severity of the disease. Even if the new variant is not more virulent, a virus that can spread more easily will put further strain on hospitals and health workers who are in many cases already overstretched, said Dr Matshidiso Moeti, the WHO regional director for Africa. This is a stark reminder the virus is relentless, it still presents a manifest threat, and our war is far from won. WHO said while for now there are no reports of the coronavirus variant cropping up in the African region, further investigation is needed. We call on all countries to increase testing and sequencing of the virus to swiftly spot, track and tackle new coronavirus variants as soon as they appear. To defeat an agile, adaptive and relentless enemy, we must know and understand its every move and double down on what we know works best against all variants of the virus, Moeti said. We must not become complacent. We must persist with the proven public health measures that helped stop the spread of the virus during the first wave C thats physical distancing, constant handwashing and wearing masks in public spaces. Dr. John Nkengasong, director of Africa CDC, said African countries would require sufficient oxygen supply to fight the second wave of the coronavirus pandemic, which has hit the continent severely compared to the first wave. He called on countries to subsidize masks, terming them as the currently most effective preventive measure. This is in addition to observing other health measures like social distancing and hands hygiene. Nkengasong also urged countries to intensify and increase the preparedness of vaccine rollout in the continent. Countries should start engaging and placing their vaccine orders so that we can know the volumes that have been ordered and Afreximbank can engage with the manufacturers and do the payment, Nkengasong said. The African Vaccine Acquisition Task Team has secured a provisional  million vaccine doses for member states. At least  million doses from this tranche will be available during the crucial period of April through June.