Latest on the COVID outbreak
2021/1/15 17:15
The main buildings take shape at Guangming district science town in Shenzhen. PHOTO PROVIDED TO CHINA DAILY Professors from the University of Hong Kong have achieved a remarkable scientific feat  developing a creative method to make ultrastrong steel that can even outperform aerospace steel. The accomplishment was notable enough to make its way to Science Magazine of the American Association for the Advancement of Science, one of the worlds top academic journals that recently published the discovery. However, an essential contributor to the academics research data is less known outside the science field  the China Spallation Neutron Source  the only one of its kind in China and one of the worlds four spallation neutron sources, besides those in the United States, the United Kingdom and Japan. Located in the budding comprehensive national science center in the GuangdongHong KongMacao Greater Bay Area, CSNS is among an array of topend, largescale science research facilities built or being built at the center. Making fair use of these facilities, the area is gearing up to strengthen original innovation and incubate new industries. More importantly, the Hong Kong professors success signaled that the center is no longer merely a plan promised in policy documents. Many of its facilities and buildings are already in place and have attracted researchers and technology firms. Guangdong provinces robust production ability is quickly translating innovations into products, while Hong Kong universities and startups have weaved themselves into the science centers innovation network. Unlike regular hightech zones or technology incubators on the Chinese mainland, which usually depend on importing top technology firms, a comprehensive national science center focuses on building largescale scientific research facilities and institutions to stimulate original innovation and incubate its own stars. According to the official description, it aims to become a foundation of the national innovation ecosystem and a crucial platform for the nation to participate in the global technology competition. Besides the center in the Bay area, therere only three hubs with such title in the country  in Beijing, Shanghai and Hefei, Anhui province. Many other cities, including Chengdu in Sichuan province and Wuhan in Hubei province, are also on the same trail. In , the central government explicitly pinned Shenzhen as the principal city of a new comprehensive national science center in the guideline on supporting the city in building a pilot demonstration area of socialism with Chinese characteristics. Dongguans Songshan Lake science town houses the China Spallation Neutron Source. PHOTO PROVIDED TO CHINA DAILY Science towns The National Development and Reform Commission and Ministry of Science and Technology agreed last year to promote two science towns in Shenzhens Guangming district and Songshan Lake HiTech Industrial Development Zone in Dongguan as key drivers of the Bay Areas national science center. The Chinese Academy of Sciences  one of the nations highest scientific and technology research institutions  signed cooperation agreements with the Shenzhen and Dongguan governments in November to jointly build the center. The two science towns have already built many office buildings, factories and living facilities there, such as schools, residential homes and hospitals. These facilities and industry chain firms have laid a solid foundation to woo new highend talent, startups, research institutions and firms in order to form the science center as soon as possible. Their main task now is to build a new batch of largescale scientific study facilities, universities and research institutions, many of which are nearing completion. Construction of the main structure housing largescale scientific study facilities for brain analysis, brain simulation and synthetic biology was completed this month in Guangming science town. The fivebuilding complex, covering an area of about , square meters, is expected to go into operation next year. Another largescale scientific facility for the study of integrated particles began construction in August last year. The second phase of the national supercomputing center, a precision medical imaging device and a set of special environmental science equipment are in the pipeline. Meanwhile, Sun Yatsen University has launched its Shenzhen campus and started accepting students last year, while CAS initiated its fourth university nationwide in the district late last year. Since the establishment of the Shenzhen special economic zone in , the Guangming area has remained dotted with animal rearing farms. In , the new Guangming District was founded, tasked with building a topend scientific town. The local government has so far invested about  billion yuan . billion in the project that covers an area of  square kilometers, about twothirds of the entire district. Guangming District Governor Liu Sheng said the science town will be merged with the Bay Areas basic research and applied basic research facilities. Based on basic research, well establish a stepbystep cultivation system of technology firms  from budding startups and graduated projects and from incubators to national hightech firms, highgrowth enterprises and industry champions. Dongguans Songshan Lake science town, a minute drive from Guangming, houses the CSNS. Jointly built by Guangdong and the CAS in , the CSNS began operations in , serving more than , users from around the globe. The local authorities aim to start building CSNSs second phase once approval is obtained and open eight new spectrometers. The CSNS is like a super microscope, with each spectrometer to be used in each scientific research sector. Next to the CSNS, a new building complex is emerging. Its the new Songshan Lake Materials Laboratory, which completed registration in  and has been working in a temporary office nearby. Wang Enge, vicepresident of the CAS and chairman of SLAB, told a forum last year the lab has incubated a few startups based on their scientific research achievements. Some products have been widely used in the manufacturing sector, such as new combustion materials for pollution reduction and scarce parts to make N masks. Were pushing for an innovative model factory to facilitate industrialization and export transformation, said Wang. Other companies could also apply for the usage of various test and measurement equipment at the lab or send their samples to the lab for tests. Xbot Part at Songshan Lake science town in Dongguan. CHAI HUACHINA DAILY Hong Kongs part Hong Kong is also an active participant at the comprehensive national science center. The Chinese University of Hong Kong is building its second Shenzhen campus at Guangming science town, while the City University of Hong Kong aims to open a new mainland branch near Songshan Lake. CUHK has teamed up with CSNS to set up a multiphysics spectrometer, which is due to begin operations in the second half of this year. Whats more, both science towns have incubators for Hong Kong and Macao startups with rentalfree offices and capital support. Song Hongping, general manager of SmartMind Technology, said theyre working with a dozen budding startups at a Guangming incubator that opened last year. Song founded the startup engaged in artificial intelligencebased G filter testing technology with a doctor who graduated from CUHK. He said his business partner had tried to set up his own firm, but found his research results often failed to keep up with market demand. The slogan Building a worldclass science city is clear on an exterior wall of the exhibition hall at Guangming district science town. CHAI HUACHINA DAILY He then invited Song, whos more experienced with the local G industry supply chain. At Songshan Lake science town, Xbot Park has become a base for many professionals from Hong Kong. It was jointly set up in  by Li Zexiang, a professor of the Hong Kong University of Science and Technology, who is also known as the godfather of drones after having incubated dronemaker DJI. The park has taken in many Hong Kong students and incubated more than  firms, some of which have climbed to the top of the industry. Shi Jinbo followed Li to Dongguan and cofounded Quotient Kinematics Machine, an industrial robot producer. Shi said the rich resources of manufacturing suppliers are among the areas major advantages. For instance, one of our industrial robots needs about  components and all could be found in factories within a onehour drive from the area. But the difficulty lies in recruiting highend technology professionals and retaining them, compared with companies in firsttier cities. Theres an aura of scientific and technological research forming around Songshan Lake, she said. This will attract more talents whore willing to get involved in frontier technologies. In addition, the Hong KongShenzhen Innovation and Technology Cooperation Zone, wedged between the two cities and operated jointly by the two cities, is positioned to be a pilot zone for innovation and open for the Bay Areas comprehensive national science center. Although the Hong Kong section is still under land rehabilitation, the Shenzhen part, a bonded zone in Futian district, has transformed its existing factories and warehouses into newtechnology research spaces, incubating more than  projects from both sides.