Washington urged to end Xinjiang import ban
2021/1/15 0:00
China urged the United States to immediately withdraw its decision to impose an import ban on all cotton and tomato products from the Xinjiang Uygur autonomous region and to stop interfering with Chinas internal affairs under the pretext of Xinjiang related issues. We firmly oppose it. China will take all necessary measures to uphold our sovereignty, security and development interests, said Foreign Affairs Ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian at a regular news briefing in Beijing on Thursday. The US Customs and Border Protection announced on Wednesday that the ban was imposed over allegations that the products were made with forced labor by Uygur Muslims detained in camps. Zhao said the socalled forced labor is the lie of the century, fabricated by certain institutions and people in Western countries including the US. The US created this lie and took actions upon this lie, said the spokesman, adding that the purpose is to crack down on Chinese people and companies and to contain Chinas development. That behavior has violated market economy principles, harmed global industrial and supply chains, and damaged the interests of companies and consumers of all countries, including those of the US, Zhao said. No one will benefit or gain from such action, he added. The spokesman also said that the US should feel embarrassed about its own forced labor issues as repeatedly reported by the media. He cited a report from the Los Angeles Times about women working overtime in prison factories to churn out masks by the thousands, but were forbidden from wearing them. Gao Feng, a spokesman from the Ministry of Commerce, said on Thursday that China is strongly against the US and some other countries gross interference in Chinas internal affairs based on false information and fabricated lies. Cotton and tomato products from Xinjiang play an important role in global industrial supply chains, and restrictive measures undermine global supply chain security and impede global economic recovery, Gao said, urging the countries involved to immediately end restrictions. mojingxichinadaily.com.cn