Guangdong sets rules for coming travel rush
2021/1/14 15:54
Yang Junbo, deputy director of the Guangdong Provincial Department of Transportation second from right, explains measures to be taken during the Spring Festival travel rush. Photo by Zheng CaixiongFor chinadaily.com.cn Concrete measures are being introduced to help prevent the spread of coronavirus infections and to ensure the smooth and safe flow of traffic in Guangdong province during the coming Spring Festival travel rush. According to Yang Junbo, deputy director of the Guangdong Provincial Department of Transportation, all frontline staff who work in the provinces airports, railway stations, bus terminals, metro stations, ports, harbors, exitentry checkpoints, road toll stations and related traffic units will be required to be vaccinated by the end of January. Meanwhile disinfection procedures will be enhanced in the waiting rooms of airports and in railway stations, bus terminals, highway service areas and related public venues in the weeks ahead, Yang said at a news conference in Guangzhou on Thursday. Weng Xinggen, director of the integrated transport division of Yangs department, said all passengers will be required to wear face masks, have their body temperatures measured and show their health codes when they enter airports, railway stations and bus terminals. Transportation departments will establish special emergency task forces to help handle any emergencies during the travel rush and will join hands with police and disease prevention and control personnel and relevant departments to strengthen investigations to help plug any loopholes in pandemic prevention and control, he said. Special experts from provincial disease control and prevention centers are now being invited to help train frontline traffic staff, he said. The move aims to ensure a smooth, safe Spring Festival travel rush, Weng said. This years day Spring Festival travel rush period will begin on Jan . About  percent fewer people than last year are expected to travel because of the threat of infection, Weng said. About  million people, or about  percent of all travelers, will take buses or cars, he added. Guangdong, with a population of more than  million, has seen a crush of Spring Festival travelers for years. The countrys most populous province is a major production base of the world, and it is home to myriad of foreignfunded companies, joint ventures, Stateowned enterprises and private companies.