RCEP to boost trade flows and supply chain network in AsiaPacific
2021/10/12 9:54
Korn Dabbaransi China has shown the world how it prioritizes peoples wellbeing as it has fought to reduce poverty and protect lives during the pandemic, said Thailands former deputy prime minister Korn Dabbaransi. It has shown the world that fighting poverty and corruption is among the government s most important policies, said Korn, president of the ThaiChinese Friendship Association. They would exercise all of their power to make sure that every citizen of China has left poverty behind. It is the policy of the Communist Party of China to assure the wellbeing of the people. It is the work of the government that has turned that policy into reality. Fifty years since the Peoples Republic of China resumed its seat in the United Nations, China has shown to the world that wellbeing of the people earns the highest priority, he said. As China announced the elimination of absolute poverty this year, it also accomplished its pledge for the UN  Agenda for Sustainable Development  years ahead of time. Korn has visited China  times since , witnessing the countrys development firsthand. I still remember walking in front of the Beijing Hotel, talking to people who were waiting for buses, Korn said of his first visit. The traffic was congested with bicycles there was no department store. All clothing was the same, provided by the State. In  when he stood at the same spot in front of the centuryold hotel, Korn said he was struck by the contrasts. There was no bicycle in sight. The latest models of automobiles were running around. The latest designed constructions were on the skyline in all directions. People in the latest fashion looked very lively and cheerful. Since the launch of reform and openingup, China has launched multiple programs to alleviate poverty. More than  million of Chinas rural population living below the current poverty line have been raised from poverty over the past  years, accounting for more than  percent of the global total over the same period, according to the World Banks international poverty standard, said a white paper issued in April by Chinas State Council Information Office. The personal income of Chinese people has grown steadily, with the average per capita disposable income reaching , yuan , last year, up from  yuan in , according to a white paper issued on Sept . The Chinese government had consistently worked to fulfill the goal and eventually eradicated extreme poverty in the country, Korn said. The key to such success lies in three qualificationsstability, unity, and no corruption. Talking about the success of the Belt and Road Initiative since its inception in , Korn said the BRI is a message from China that the country is willing to help every developing country lift their people from poverty. China has already proven to the world that it can do it. If we all can build this road of peace together, then we can give prosperity to the people of that country together. Medical workers from Jilin Province wave at a farewell ceremony in Harbin, Northeast Chinas Heilongjiang province, Oct , .  Helping hand China was among the first to bring the pandemic under control, and Korn said the country has done much to help other countries as they fight COVID. China has provided more than . billion vaccine doses to more than  countries and international organizations and medical supplies to more than  countries and  international organizations, a Xinhua News Agency report said late last month. It has supplied more than  billion masks, . billion protective suits and . billion nucleic acid test kits globally. In addition to donating  million to the World Health Organizations COVAX global vaccine initiative, China has pledged to donate  million additional vaccine doses to other developing countries this year. China had provided more than  million vaccine doses to Thailand by the end of last month, the Chinese embassy in Bangkok said. The people of Thailand can feel and touch those vaccines donated from China since the pandemic erupted, Korn said. The people of Thailand only wish to express their sincere appreciation to the government and the people of China for their kindness. Thais and Chinese will remain as one family forever.