COVID fears grow in US Capitol as three lawmakers test positive
2021/1/14 14:18
An explosion caused by a police munition is seen while supporters of US President Donald Trump gather in front of the US Capitol Building in Washington, US, Jan , .  WASHINGTON  At least three members of the US Congress have tested positive for COVID following the storming of the Capitol by President Donald Trumps supporters last week. Congresswoman Bonnie Watson Coleman, Pramila Jayapal and congressman Brad Schneider have announced they have tested positive and blamed their results on their Republican colleagues refusal to wear face masks during the hourslong lockdown as a large number of protesters, many unmasked, roamed the halls of the Capitol on Jan . Video surfaced of multiple Republican lawmakers refusing to wear a mask even when one was offered. In an interview with McClatchy Newspapers, Director of Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Robert Redfield has warned the incident was probably a superspreader event that will have public health consequences. Its not certain where and when lawmakers caught the illness, but the Capitols attending physician notified all House lawmakers of possible virus exposure and urged them to be tested. Dr. Brian Moynihan said members who were in protective isolation last Wednesday may have been exposed to another occupant with coronavirus infection. All three lawmakers are isolating. Schneider said he was not feeling symptoms, while Watson Coleman said she was experience mild, coldlike symptoms. Jayapal did not elaborate on how she was feeling, but noted that she began to quarantine several days ago out of concern about conditions in the secured room. Within hours of their announcements, Reps. Debbie Dingell, DMich., and Anthony Brown, DMd., introduced legislation that would impose a , fine on any member of Congress refusing to wear a mask on Capitol grounds during the COVID pandemic. It is not brave to refuse to wear a mask. It is selfish, stupid and shameful behavior that puts lives at risk, Dingell said. APXinhua