Loopholes in rural COVID prevention should be plugged Experts
2021/1/12 16:31
Vegetable dealers transport produce at a wholesale market in Shijiazhuang, Hebei province, on Monday. Photo by Wang ZhuangfeiChina Daily Lack of vigilance against the novel coronavirus and weak healthcare awareness are among the factors contributing to the recent COVID outbreak in North Chinas Hebei province, of which a majority of the cases are from rural areas, health experts said. More than  percent of confirmed COVID cases reported in the latest outbreak in Hebei province are from rural areas, according to the provincial health commission. Rural residents, especially senior citizens, are particularly vulnerable to infections due to a lack of proper antivirus awareness and knowledge, said Wu Hao, an advisor to the National Health Commission. Many of the confirmed cases had attended gatherings, such as weddings, banquets, and funerals, according to the provincial health commission. For example, the first detected case, a yearold woman from Shijiazhuang, the provincial capital, visited family members and attended religious gatherings  in which few people wore a mask  after she contracted the virus. Many patients took medicine themselves or went to small clinics after symptoms like fever and cough appeared, and grassrootslevel healthcare facilities failed to offer proper guidance and set off early warnings, according to the provincial health commission. Statistics released by the National Health Commission suggest that the health literacy of rural residents was . percent in , lagging behind . percent for their urban counterparts. Since the COVID outbreak in Wuhan last year, Chinas vast rural areas, home to about  million people, have successfully contained virus spread through measures such as blocking entrances to rural communities and strictly controlling the flow of people. However, as the war against the virus drags on, people have relaxed vigilance against the disease, and the principle of identifying, reporting and isolating cases as soon as possible has been diluted, Wu said. Cities are thought to be riskier in disease transmission so we lose sight of the countryside, Wu said. This is a warning to all society that the virus is around us at any time and in any place. Everyone should do a good job in selfprotection and selfmonitoring, without exception, in rural areas, Wu added.