Chinese cities home to over m urban population in
2021/1/12 13:44
People wearing masks walk past a building with electronic board showing world stock indexes, in Shanghai, on Nov , .  Six Chinese cites saw their urban populations exceed  million in , including four municipalities  Shanghai, Beijing, Chongqing and Tianjin  and two subprovincial cities  Guangzhou and Shenzhen  according to a statistical review on urban construction released by the Ministry of Housing and UrbanRural Development on Dec , Yicai.com reported. The urban population in the megacity of Shanghai surpassed over  million by , while Beijing and Chongqing also had more than  million people living within their urban areas. Jinan, the capital city of Shandong province, became the new coming metropolis, with an urban population of between  to  million. The group, now comprised of  cities across the country, includes Dongguan, Wuhan, Chengdu, Hangzhou, Nanjing, Zhengzhou, Xian, Jinan, Shenyang and Qingdao. Hangzhou, the ecommerce hub in East China, has overtaken Nanjing to become the secondbiggest city in terms of urban population in the Yangtze River Delta region. Driven by its burgeoning digital economy, Hangzhou witnessed a rapid talent inflow and urban district expansion in recent years. The citys permanent resident population increased from . million in  to . million in , a surge of about , people yearonyear, with the annual increment exceeding that of Shenzhen and Guangzhou for the first time, ranking first in the country. Apart from megacities and metropolises,  big cities with urban populations of  to  million were also focused on urban construction and development, including Harbin, Changchun, Dalian, Hefei, Kunming, Taiyuan, Changsha, Suzhou, Nanjing, Urumqi, Shijiazhuang, Xiamen, Ningbo and Fuzhou. Fuzhou, for example, ramped up reform on household registration and its relative systems to attract an inflow of population, and further optimized the mechanism for granting urban residency to those who have moved from rural areas, to accelerate the transformation into a city with a population of over  million, according to the Fuzhou governments th FiveYear Plan. Ding Changfa, associate professor of Economics department in Xiamen University, said Fujian province, which lies between the Yangtze River and Pearl River Delta regions, has faced increasing competition in attracting talents in recent years due to a lack of major cities. Therefore, the southeastern province was in need of a big city, especially a megalopolis, to lead the development Fujian, Ding stressed.