UN envoy says arms control and disarmament system at crossroads
2021/10/12 9:07
Dr. Anthony Fauci, director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, speaks during a Senate Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions Committee hearing at the Dirksen Senate Office Building in Washington, DC, US, July , .  NEW YORK  With holidays approaching in the United States, health experts said some festivities can start to return to a sense of normalcy, but warned that COVID isnt defeated yet and seasonal influenza could launch an attack, despite the federal governments consistent endeavor to vaccinate more Americans against the coronavirus and authorize a new pill and booster vaccines. Its a good time to reflect on why its important to get vaccinated. But go out there and enjoy Halloween as well as the other holidays that will be coming up, Anthony Fauci, director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, told CNN on Sunday. Outdoor trickortreating, particularly for children who are vaccinated, should be fine this year, he said. Megan Ranney, associate dean of the School of Public Health at Brown University, cautioned against indoor Halloween parties for children too young to be vaccinated and encouraged parents in areas with high virus transmission to mask their children, but agreed that Halloween fun could go on this year. However, as the conditions are improving and the sense of normalcy is expanding, Fauci still alerted that the fight against the pandemic is not over. We have to just be careful that we dont prematurely declare victory in many respects. We still have around  million people who are eligible to be vaccinated that have not yet gotten vaccinated, he said. On Monday, the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention CDC updated that ,, people have received at least one dose of COVID vaccine, making up . percent of the whole US population. Fully vaccinated people stood at ,,, accounting for . percent of the total. A total of ,, people, or . percent of fully vaccinated group, received booster shots. According to The New York Times data analysis, the day average of confirmed cases of the pandemic stood at , nationwide on Sunday, with the day change striking a percent fall. The COVIDrelated deaths were , on Sunday, with the day change realizing a percent decrease, with southern US state of Arkansas having added many COVID deaths. COVID PLUS FLU A man carrying a girl on shoulders goes to a Chicago Cubs game in Chicago, the United States, on June , .  Experts are warning that there could be what they call a twindemic of COVID and flu this coming winter, reported national broadcaster CBS on Monday. Millions of US children get sick with the flu every year and tens of thousands are hospitalized with respiratory syncytial virus or RSV. Research being presented at an American Academy of Pediatrics conference showed that pandemic precautions, like wearing masks and social distancing, helped stop the spread of flu and other common respiratory viruses last season, according to the report. Although each of these things is not perfect, taken together, they really are effective in preventing illness, William Schaffner, an infectious diseases specialist at Vanderbilt University Medical Center, was quoted as saying. Last week, The Washington Post reported that US health officials are urging Americans to get their flu shots, warning that the flu season that didnt materialize when most of society was shut down last year could come roaring back and strain hospitals in the months ahead. Survey data released on Thursday found that slightly more than half of American adults plan to be vaccinated against influenza. Thats not much of a change from prepandemic surveys conducted by the National Foundation for Infectious Diseases. This low flu activity was likely due to the widespread implementation of COVID preventive measures like masks, physical distancing and staying home, CDC Director Rochelle Walensky said in a Thursday briefing announcing flu vaccination efforts. PILL AND BOOSTERS Placards display signage for Johnson  Johnson and Pfizer COVID vaccinations at a mobile COVID vaccination center in the Brooklyn borough of New York, the United States, Aug , .  On Monday, drugmaker Merck asked the US Food and Drug Administration FDA to authorize its pill against COVID in what would add an entirely new and easytouse weapon to the worlds arsenal against the pandemic. If cleared by the agency, a decision that could come in a matter of weeks, it would be the first pill shown to treat COVID. All other FDAbacked treatments against the disease require an intravenous therapy IV or injection. An antiviral pill that people could take at home to reduce their symptoms and speed recovery could prove groundbreaking, easing the crushing caseload on US hospitals and helping to curb outbreaks in poorer countries with weak health care systems. It would also bolster the twopronged approach to the pandemic treatment, by way of medication, and prevention, primarily through vaccinations, reported national broadcaster NBC. Merck and its partner Ridgeback Biotherapeutics said they specifically asked the agency to grant emergency use for adults with mildtomoderate COVID who are at risk for severe disease or hospitalization. Merck expects to be able to produce enough pills for  million people by the end of this year. The pill is meant to be taken at home as four capsules twice a day for five days, for a total of  pills. Meanwhile, the US federal government is expected to take a significant step this week toward offering booster doses to a much wider range of Americans as advisers to the FDA meet on Thursday and Friday to discuss recipients of the Johnson  Johnson and Moderna coronavirus vaccines. So far, regulators have authorized booster shots only for certain adults who received the PfizerBioNTech vaccine. The US President Joe Biden administration is eager to shore up the protection provided by all three officially authorized vaccines. And federal officials have become increasingly worried in particular about the more than  million Americans who received the Johnson  Johnson vaccine, which is less effective than the others, reported The New York Times on Monday. On Thursday, the FDA advisory panel of vaccine experts will discuss safety and efficacy data regarding booster shots for Moderna recipients. On Friday, the group will discuss Johnson  Johnson boosters. The agency typically issues decisions within a few days of advisory committee meetings. The expert committee will also hear a presentation on Friday from scientists on the effectiveness of mixing different brands of vaccines.