Leonard leaps into , club
2021/1/12 0:00
LOS ANGELESFreed from the pesky mask hed been wearing on court for two weeks, Kawhi Leonard cut loose. Getting a steal and a dunk, hitting pointer after pointer. He finished with a seasonhigh  points, going over , in his career, and the Los Angeles Clippers rallied to beat the Chicago Bulls  on Sunday. Its a steppingstone, but I dont really care about it, Leonard said of his milestone. Maybe when I retire Ill sit back and look at the accomplishments. Right now its about being greedy and wanting more. Leonard reached the , plateau on one of his five pointers in the third quarter, when he scored  points. His points and pointers made were the most in a single quarter in his career. He understood how they were guarding him and he took advantage of it, teammate Paul George said. He was hot, so we definitely kept finding him. Leonards last pointer in the quarter gave the Clippers their first lead since they scored the games first basket. In all, he had seven pointers, tying his career high. We needed every bit of it, Clippers coach Tyronn Lue said. Leonard had  points in the first half, when the Clippers trailed by seven at the break. He got a steal and dunk for his first points of the third, then made five straight pointers before closing out his explosive quarter with a pair of baskets, the last of which tied the game at . For the first time in two weeks, Leonard no longer needs the oncourt mask he wore strapped around his head to protect eight stitches in his mouth. He got hit by teammate Serge Ibakas elbow at Denver on Christmas. George had  points, seven rebounds and nine assists for the Clippers, who avoided their first threegame losing streak of the season. Lou Williams added  points off the bench. Zach LaVine led six Bulls in double figures with a seasonhigh  pointsfour off his career highand he made a seasonbest  pointers. Garrett Temple added  points and Patrick Williams had  points. Coby White had a careerhigh  assists. Chicago dropped its third in a row for the first time since starting the season . We were frustrated we kept letting him LaVine get looks that he liked, George said, but at our end we were happy and excited that Kawhi had it going. The Bulls shot  percent from the floor and  percent from point range. The Clippers chased the Bulls through the first three quarters, falling behind by . Lou Williams basket tied the game at  heading into the fourth. Los Angeles led by six in the fourth before Temples threepoint play put the Bulls ahead . Nicolas Batum hit a pointer in front of the Clippers bench with Thaddeus Young in his face, got fouled and made the free throw, launching an  run that gave Los Angeles a  lead. LaVine had a threepoint play and a pointer over Marcus Morris Sr.to pull the Bulls to . White got called for his fourth foul, putting George at the line. He made both for a  lead. LaVine airballed a pointer from the top of the key with six seconds to go. I got ten s. Im going to come down and try to make a play, he said. I got a clean look. I just didnt get legs on it. LaVine got called for his fourth foul and George made both free throws for a  lead. Temples late basket closed the scoring for Chicago. Tipins Bulls Starting forward Otto Porter Jr. missed the game with a lower back issue. ... Lauri Markkanen and Ryan Arcidiacono have been able to work out while remaining in health and safety protocols in Chicago. Coach Billy Donovan said they continue to test negative for the coronavirus and hes hopeful they can rejoin the team this week. ... Chandler Hutchison is doing much better. Hes been stuck in Washington, DC, in health and safety protocols since a pair of games to end last year. ... Tomas Satoransky, whos been selfisolating since the games in DC, is also expected to rejoin the team. ... The Bulls have put their restricted players on video calls before games so they can feel as though theyre part of the locker room. Clippers They made at least  pointers for the fifth time in franchise history.... Batum played in his th career regularseason game. AP Los Angeles Clippers forward Kawhi Leonard scores at full stretch despite the defensive efforts of the Chicago Bulls Garrett Temple  and Zach LaVine during Sundays NBA game in Los Angeles. AP