nd COVID wave spreads at alarming rate in South Africa
2021/1/12 0:00
The rate of new coronavirus infection cases and deaths in South Africathe most affected country in the continentis alarming, as the country continues to struggle with the second wave of the pandemic fueled by a new variant of the virus that has been termed as highly transmissible. This trend continues to be observed even after the government introduced new measures on Dec , including banning public meetings and the sale of alcohol, and making mask wearing mandatory. According to Dr Zweli Mkhize, the minister of health, the country reached a grim milestone on Jan  after recording more than , new cases and  deaths over a hour period. Gauteng is the most affected province having recorded a total of , infection cases as of Jan , translating to . percent of the total tally. It is followed by KwaZuluNatal with , cases at . percent, and Western Cape with , cases at . percent. As of Jan , the second biggest economy in Africa has recorded a total of more than . million COVID cases and , deaths. Eastern Cape province has recorded the highest number of deaths, standing at , as of Jan , followed by Western Cape with , and Gauteng with ,. The Steve Biko Academic Hospital in capital Pretoria is already overwhelmed with coronavirus patients, with most of them being sicker and requiring critical care. In a statement on Jan , the Gauteng Department of Health said there has been a sharp increase in the number of coronavirus patients since December. The department said some of the patients arrived in groups, putting serious pressure on the facility. Some of the patients are coming from private facilities because of lack of space, while others are selfreferred from other provinces such as North West, Mpumalanga and Limpopo, the statement read. Just like Steve Biko hospital, the Tshwane District Hospital is also under pressure especially with regard to patients that require immediate specialist attention. The two hospitals were converted into strictly coronavirus treatment facilities early last year. The statement by the department followed photos of Steve Biko hospital on social media, showing the fully packed hospital with some patients being treated in the parking area. Senior government officials have not been spared by the virus either. Between Jan  and , three deputy ministers have been hospitalized or quarantined at home after contracting COVID. David Mahlobo, deputy minister of water and sanitation, and Obed Bapela, deputy minister of cooperative governance and traditional affairs, are serving quarantine in their homes after testing positive for the coronavirus on Jan  and  respectively. Bapela urged all South Africans to play their part by continuing to observe all health protocols such as regularly washing or sanitizing their hands, wearing face masks that cover both the nose and mouth, and practicing social distancing at all times. Elizabeth Moloi, deputy minister of employment and labor, was hospitalized on Jan  for the coronavirus and is recovering well. Meanwhile, the South African government is working hard to secure vaccines at the soonest possible. In a briefing on Jan , Health Minister Mkhize said the country will be receiving  million doses of the AstraZeneca vaccine in January and another , doses from the Serum Institute of India in February. The acquisition has been done directly by the Department of Health, Mkhize said. This strengthens the credibility of the process as all the negotiations and payment issues are managed directly by the government with the manufacturer. He said the ministry will be engaging all relevant stakeholders in order to ensure efficient and effective rollout of the vaccines for health workers. We urge the public to be patient with us as we continue to engage manufacturers. Our commitment remains to save and protect the lives of our people, Mkhize said. We therefore call on all South Africans, members of the public, political parties, business, labor, nongovernmental organizations, community leaders and members to work with us as we start this historic process. edithmutethyachinadaily.com.cn A man has his hands sanitized before entering South Africa at the Beitbridge border post between South Africa and Zimbabwe on Friday. GUILLEM SARTORIOAFP