Chinas International Development Cooperation in the New Era
2021/1/11 8:01
Editors Note Chinas State Council Information Office issued a white paper titled Chinas International Development Cooperation in the New Era, on Sunday. Full text below Preface I.International Development Cooperation in the New Era and a Global Community of Shared Future II.Achieving New Progress in International Development Cooperation III.Boosting International Cooperation on the Belt and Road IV.Contributing to the UN  Agenda for Sustainable Development V.Responding to Global Humanitarian Challenges Together VI.Supporting the Endogenous Growth of Developing Countries VII.Strengthening International Exchanges and Tripartite Cooperation VIII.Future Prospects for Chinas International Development Cooperation Conclusion Preface China is the largest developing country in the world. Since its founding in , the Peoples Republic of China has always demonstrated a spirit of internationalism and humanitarianism following and supporting other developing countries efforts to improve their peoples lives and achieve development. From the outset, even though China was itself short of funds, it started offering assistance to needy countries in support of their fight for national independence and liberation, and their effort to promote economic and social development, which laid a solid foundation for longterm friendship and cooperation with those countries. After launching reform and opening up in , China has provided other developing economies with even more aid in more diverse forms to boost common development. China entered a new era after the th National Congress of the Communist Party of China CPC in . President Xi Jinping has considered Chinas responsibilities from a global perspective, and proposed the vision of a global community of shared future and the Belt and Road Initiative. China is committed to pursuing the greater good and shared interests, and upholding the principles of sincerity, real results, affinity, and good faith for developing relations with other developing countries and the principles of amity, sincerity, mutual benefit, and inclusiveness for expanding relations with neighboring countries. To this end, President Xi has taken advantage of many major international occasions to announce a broad range of cooperation measures. These present Chinas approach, offer its vision, and contribute its strength to resolving global development issues and implementing the United Nations  Agenda for Sustainable Development. In response to the call of the times, China has been upgrading its foreign assistance to a model of international development cooperation, taking on new initiatives and achieving greater results in this new era. The Chinese government is publishing this white paper to introduce Chinas views on international development cooperation in the new era, the actions it has taken, and its plans for the future. I. International Development Cooperation in the New Era and a Global Community of Shared Future The unprecedented level of interconnection and interdependence among countries binds them into a global community of shared future. Guided by this vision, Chinas international development cooperation in the new era has a more profound philosophical basis and clearer goals, which lead to more concrete actions. . Cultural and Philosophical Origins China has a cultural foundation and national character that attach great importance to good faith, friendship, justice and righteousness. This is an inherent force driving Chinas development cooperation, which is based on the following notions The Chinese nations ideal of universal harmony. China pursues an ideal world where the Great Way rules for the common good, respects the principles of good neighborliness and harmony in relations with all other countries, and advocates cooperation and mutual help. Deep rooted in Chinese culture, these are the firm beliefs that inspire Chinas development cooperation. Upholding the belief that all countries are members of a global village with shared future, China advocates fairer and more equitable international relations, and steadfastly contributes to global development. The Chinese idea of repaying kindness with kindness. The Chinese people will always remember the support and help that China has received from other countries and international organizations. Chinese culture admires those who return the favor of a drop of water in need with a spring of water indeed. China is willing to share its successful experience without reservation to boost development in other places and benefit more countries and peoples. The Chinese tradition of internationalism. The Chinese people always preserve a sense of justice and a feeling of sympathy. In , just one year after the founding of the Peoples Republic, China did its utmost to support other countries in their campaigns for national independence in spite of its own difficulties. Over the past seven decades, the Chinese nation has forged ahead, moving from poverty and backwardness towards strength and prosperity. The Chinese people hope that other peoples will also lead a good life while theirs is improving, and are willing to contribute as much as they can to other developing countries efforts to satisfy their peoples aspiration for a better life. Chinas sense of responsibility as a major country. China is a founding member of the United Nations and also a permanent member of the UN Security Council. It upholds the universal values of humanitypeace, development, equity, justice, democracy and freedomand sticks to a development path that is peaceful, open, cooperative and inclusive. China considers it a duty to actively engage in development cooperation as a responsible member of the international community. China considers it a mission to contribute more to humanity. Its wish is to offer more public goods to the international community and join forces with other countries to build a better common future. . Chinas Approaches to Development Cooperation Based on its experience in international development cooperation since the th CPC National Congress, China has formed distinctive approaches in keeping with the new era while maintaining its fine traditions, as elaborated below. Promoting a global community of shared future is the mission of Chinas international development cooperation. Humanity shares a common stake in development, and world stability and prosperity cannot be achieved unless developing countries can progress. By helping other developing countries reduce poverty and improve their peoples lives, China works together with them to narrow the NorthSouth gap, eliminate the deficit in development, establish a new model of international relations based on mutual respect, equity, justice and winwin cooperation, and build an open, inclusive, clean and beautiful world that enjoys lasting peace, universal security and common prosperity. Pursuing the greater good and shared interests, with higher priority given to the former, is the underlying guideline. This represents one of Chinas cultural traditions and embodies its belief in internationalism. Under this guideline, China strives to make the cake of prosperity bigger, and hopes developing countries will advance faster to share the opportunities and benefits offered by open development. Observing the principle of mutual benefit for winwin outcomes, it offers as much assistance as it can while taking into consideration of the interests and needs of other developing countries. SouthSouth cooperation is the focus. In spite of Chinas tremendous achievements, two realities have not changed China is in the primary stage of socialism and will remain so for a long time to come, and China is still the worlds largest developing economy. Chinas development cooperation is a form of mutual assistance between developing countries. It falls into the category of SouthSouth cooperation and therefore is essentially different from NorthSouth cooperation. China is a staunch supporter, active participant and key contributor of SouthSouth cooperation. It will continue to shoulder the international responsibilities commensurate with its development level and capacity, and further expand SouthSouth cooperation, so as to promote joint efforts for common development. Belt and Road cooperation is a major platform. The Silk Road Economic Belt and the st Century Maritime Silk Road are significant public goods China offers to the whole world and a major platform for international development cooperation. China has joined hands with other countries to promote policy, infrastructure, trade, financial and peopletopeople connectivity, to build the Belt and Road into a path towards peace, prosperity, opening up, innovation, green development, cultural exchanges, and clean government. Helping other developing countries to pursue the UN  Agenda for Sustainable Development is a key goal. The  Agenda is a guiding blueprint for development cooperation around the world and has a lot in common with the Belt and Road Initiative. The international community has made initial progress in achieving the agendas goals in recent years, but global development remains unbalanced and inadequate. The Covid pandemic has posed a serious threat to the  Agenda, making it a tough task to achieve its goals in all countries and for all people as scheduled. Through international cooperation on improving development capacity and optimizing development partnerships, China has helped other developing countries mitigate the impact of the pandemic, so as to accelerate action for the  Agenda and achieve common prosperity. . Chinas Principles for Development Cooperation Chinas principles for international development cooperation are as follows Respecting each other as equals. China always supports development cooperation on the basis of the Five Principles of Peaceful Coexistence. It holds that all countries, regardless of size, strength and wealth, are equal members of the international community. When cooperating with other countries for development, no country should interfere in their efforts to find a development path suited to their own national conditions, interfere in their internal affairs, impose its own will on them, attach political strings, or pursue political selfinterest. Doing the best we can to help. Taking both the domestic and international situation into consideration, China gives full play to its comparative strengths, and perform international duties compatible with its national strength. Within the framework of SouthSouth cooperation, it provides as much assistance to other developing countries as it can. China respects other developing countries opinions, and determines cooperation projects through friendly consultation and mutual agreement. It does not launch projects in conflict with its partners development level and needs. China is always true in word and resolute in deed. It honors its commitments and ensures all projects achieve good results. Focusing on development and improving peoples lives. Development is the top priority of all countries. When carrying out development cooperation, China emphasizes coordination of plans and strategies with partner countries, and responds to the priority needs of developing countries for social and economic progress. Aiming to improve peoples wellbeing and provide them with tangible gains, it increases investment in poverty alleviation, disaster relief, education, health care, agriculture, employment, environmental protection, and climate change response, and actively participates in emergency humanitarian relief operations. Providing the means for independent development. Fully considering the resources, development level and needs of other developing countries, China shares unreservedly its experience and technologies with them by various means, and trains local talent and technicians for them, so as to empower them to tap their own potential for diversified, independent and sustainable development. Conducting effective cooperation in diverse forms. China has developed distinctive forms of foreign assistance throughout its longterm experience, including ? complete projects, ? goods and materials, ? technical cooperation, ? cooperation in human resources development, ? SouthSouth Cooperation Assistance Fund SSCAF, ? medical teams, ? outbound volunteers, ? emergency humanitarian aid, and ? debt relief. In accordance with its partners actual needs and conditions, China chooses the optimal forms of cooperation to maximize the results. It champions the efficient use of funds to their best value. Ensuring delivery and sustainability. China prioritizes implementation management, supervision and evaluation to ensure the quality of projects. In order to maintain the reputation and credibility of Chinaaid projects and increase their overall efficiency, China pays close attention to the operation of completed projects, provides followup technical support, and boosts the integration of investment, construction and operation. To ensure lasting impact, it promotes vocational training and technical cooperation, and helps countries to improve the skills of their project management personnel and localize project management. China seeks solutions through bilateral consultations with countries in difficulty for repayment of debts, and helps lowincome countries to achieve debt sustainability. Being open and inclusive to promote exchanges and mutual learning. China furthers its international communication on development cooperation to dispel doubts, increase mutual trust, and seek mutual learning. It respects the wishes of countries in receipt of aid, and discusses and launches cooperation with other countries and international organizations based on the principle that projects should be proposed, agreed and led by recipient countries. In a spirit of openness, China explains through various channels its policies, funding and management for development cooperation to the rest of the world. Advancing with the times and breaking new ground. Following the trends of the times and the changes in the domestic and international situation, China introduces reforms and innovations to its development cooperation while remaining true to its own principles. Absorbing the experience of other countries and international organizations in this field, and based on the development goals and needs of developing countries, China makes institutional reforms, improves regulations, diversifies forms, and expands areas of interest to increase the quality and effectiveness of cooperation. . Practical Measures for Development Cooperation Respecting its solemn commitments, China has taken practical actions in development cooperation. President Xi Jinping has announced measures for development cooperation on many international occasions, which will contribute to global development. Fulfilling its duties as a major country and providing global development with public goods. During the summits commemorating the UNs th anniversary in September , President Xi announced the following commitments for the next five years ? supporting six  projects poverty reduction projects,  agricultural cooperation projects,  aid for trade projects,  ecological conservation and climate change response projects,  hospitals and clinics, and  schools and vocational training centers ? helping implement  maternal and child health care projects and happy campus projects ? setting up an assistance fund for SouthSouth cooperation and a ChinaUN peace and development fund ? launching training and scholarship programs for people from other developing countries to study in China ? writing off debts on eligible countries interestfree loans and ? establishing an institute of SouthSouth cooperation and development and a center for international knowledge on development. At the opening of the virtual rd World Health Assembly on May , , President Xi announced measures for supporting international cooperation against Covid, including ? providing an assistance fund of US billion over two years ? working with the UN to set up a global humanitarian response depot and hub in China ? establishing a cooperation mechanism for its hospitals to pair up with  African hospitals ? making Covid vaccines available as a global public good once they have been developed and applied in China and ? working with other G members to implement the Debt Service Suspension Initiative for the poorest countries. Increasing aid to other developing countries within the Belt and Road framework. At the First Belt and Road Forum for International Cooperation in , President Xi announced that China would ? provide assistance worth RMB billion to launch more projects to improve peoples wellbeing in the following three years ? provide emergency food aid worth RMB billion ? make an additional contribution of US billion to the SSCAF ? launch happy home projects,  poverty alleviation projects, and  health care and rehabilitation projects and ? provide relevant international organizations with US billion. At the Second Belt and Road Forum for International Cooperation in , President Xi announced that China would ? implement the Belt and Road SouthSouth Cooperation Initiative on Climate Change ? expand cooperation in agriculture, health, disaster mitigation and water resources ? invite , representatives to visit China ? encourage and support extensive cooperation on public wellbeing projects among social organizations of participating countries and ? continue to run the Chinese government scholarship Silk Road Program. Proposing cooperation schemes with developing countries through regional cooperation mechanisms. President Xi Jinping has proposed many aid plans to boost economic and social development and peoples wellbeing in recipient countries at bilateral and multilateral conferences such as the Forum on ChinaAfrica Cooperation FOCAC, the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation, the Forum for Economic and Trade Cooperation Between China and PortugueseSpeaking Countries, the ChinaArab States Cooperation Forum, the Forum of China and the Community of Latin American and Caribbean States, the ChinaCaribbean Economic and Trade Cooperation Forum, and the ChinaPacific Island Countries Economic Development and Cooperation Forum. At the FOCAC Johannesburg Summit in December , President Xi put forward ten major cooperation programs with Africa for the following three years, covering industrialization, agricultural modernization, infrastructure, finance, green development, trade and investment facilitation, poverty reduction, public health, cultural and peopletopeople exchanges, and peace and security. At the FOCAC Beijing Summit held in September , President Xi stated that China would launch eight major initiatives in the next three years and beyond, covering industrial development, infrastructure connectivity, trade facilitation, green development, capacity building, health care, peopletopeople exchanges, and peace and security. At the Extraordinary ChinaAfrica Summit on Solidarity Against Covid in June , President Xi said that China would continue to do everything possible to support Africas response to Covid, work with Africa to accelerate the followups to the FOCAC Beijing Summit, give greater priority to cooperation on public health, business reopening, and peoples wellbeing, and build an even stronger ChinaAfrica community of shared future. The Chinese government is actively fulfilling its commitments to development cooperation. All the measures listed above have been completed or are progressing as scheduled, turning into solid contributions to global development. II. Achieving New Progress in International Development Cooperation China has continued a steady increase in the scale of its international development cooperation, giving high priority to the least developed countries in Asia and Africa and developing countries participating in the Belt and Road Initiative. To adapt to changes in the domestic and international situation, China has reformed its management system and is exploring new ways to promote international development cooperation with better results. . Steady Growth China has steadily increased the scale and further expanded the scope of its foreign aid. From  to , China allocated a total of RMB. billion for foreign assistance in three categoriesgrants, interestfree loans, and concessional loans. Grants of RMB. billion, accounting for . percent of the total, mainly went to help other developing countries build small and mediumsized social welfare projects and to fund projects for cooperation in human resources development, technical cooperation, material assistance, and emergency humanitarian assistance, as well as projects under the SouthSouth Cooperation Assistance Fund. Interestfree loans of RMB. billion, constituting . percent of the total, were mainly allocated to help developing countries construct public facilities and launch projects for improving local peoples lives. Concessional loans of RMB. billion, making up . percent of the total, were provided to help developing countries undertake industrial projects and large and mediumsized infrastructure projects that yield economic and social benefits, and for the supply of technical services, complete sets of equipment, mechanical and electrical products, and other goods and materials. From  to , China extended assistance to  regional and international multilateral organizations and  countries across the world in Asia,  in Africa,  in Oceania,  in Latin America and the Caribbean, and  in Europe. . Diverse Forms In addition to undertaking complete projects, providing goods and materials, and conducting technical cooperation, China set up the SouthSouth Cooperation Assistance Fund in  to launch development cooperation programs, and continues to explore new models and methods of foreign aid. Complete projects. From  to , China undertook the construction of  complete projects, with the focus on infrastructure and agriculture. In addition to the traditional turnkey model of assistance, China also launched pilot projects in some countries and regions with sound tendering processes and experience in organizing and implementing such projects. Under this model, China provided both funds and technical assistance to those projects, and the recipient countries were responsible for site survey, design, construction, and process management. ChinaFunded Complete Projects by Sector,  Sector Number of projects Public facilities  hospitals  schools  civil construction  welldrilling and water supply  public infrastructure  others  Economic infrastructure  transport  biogas  broadcast and telecommunications  electricity  others  Agriculture  agricultural pilot centers  farmland water conservancy  agricultural processing  others  Industry  Climate change programs  wind and solar energy  biogas  small hydropower  Total  Goods and materials. From  to , China provided  countries and regions with  deliveries of goods and materials, most of which comprised mechanical equipment, inspection equipment, transport vehicles, medicine and medical devices. Technical cooperation. From  to , China completed  such projects in  countries and regions, mainly covering industrial production and management, agricultural planting and breeding, culture and education, sports and training, medical and health care, clean energy development, and planning and consulting. Cooperation in human resources development. From  to , China held more than , training sessions and seminars for foreign officials and technical personnel and inservice education programs, training a total of some , people. Such projects cover more than  subjects in  fields, including politics and diplomacy, public administration, national development, poverty reduction through agricultural development, medical and health care, education and scientific research, culture and sports, and transport. Institute of SouthSouth Cooperation and Development President Xi Jinping announced a plan to establish the Institute of SouthSouth Cooperation and Development ISSCAD during the HighLevel Roundtable on SouthSouth Cooperation cohosted by China and the United Nations in September . In April , ISSCAD was set up in Peking University. Its goal is to share Chinas experience in state governance and train talent from other developing countries to modernize their governance capacity. Since its founding ISSCAD has enrolled around  doctoral and masters candidates from  developing countries, representing governments, academic institutions, news media and NGOs. In July , when the first  students of ISSCAD graduated with their masters degrees, they read out a thankyou letter to President Xi Jinping. On October , Xi wrote back to congratulate them on their graduation, encouraging them to make the best of what they had learned, keep going, aim high, and work hard to explore a sustainable development path suitable for their own countries, and become leaders of reform and development. Xi hoped they would cherish their friendships with teachers, classmates and friends in China, play new roles in promoting friendship and cooperation between China and their countries, and achieve new successes in SouthSouth cooperation. SouthSouth Cooperation Assistance Fund. By the end of , China had launched  projects under the SSCAF framework in cooperation with  international organizations, including the United Nations Development Programme UNDP, World Food Programme WFP, World Health Organization WHO, United Nations Childrens Fund UNICEF, United Nations Population Fund UNFPA, United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees UNHCR, International Organization for Migration IOM, and International Committee of the Red Cross ICRC. These projects cover agricultural development and food security, poverty reduction, health care for women and children, response to public health emergencies, education and training, postdisaster reconstruction, migrant and refugee protection, and aid for trade. SouthSouth Cooperation Assistance Fund In September , President Xi Jinping announced at the United Nations Sustainable Development Summit the creation of the SSCAF with an initial contribution of US billion, to support developing countries in carrying out the UN  Agenda for Sustainable Development. In May , President Xi announced an additional contribution of US billion to the SSCAF at the First Belt and Road Forum for International Cooperation in Beijing. By pooling resources from China and the international community, the SSCAF aims to promote SouthSouth cooperation, and support developing countries in participating in global economic governance on an equal footing. It is an innovative initiative for the Chinese government to champion the  Agenda and facilitate sustainable development in other developing countries. It embodies Chinas effort to value and bolster SouthSouth cooperation, and demonstrates that as a major country, China honors its responsibilities and welcomes other countries to board the express train of its development to achieve common progress. The SSCAF gives priority to humanitarian aid, agricultural development and food security, health care, poverty alleviation, disaster preparation and mitigation, education and training, sustainable industrial development, ecoenvironmental protection, trade promotion, and investment facilitation. It focuses on micro and small public wellbeing projects in cooperation with mainly international organizations, think tanks, and social organizations from China and recipient countries. Medical teams. By the end of , China had dispatched , medical workers in , groups to  countries and regions. They worked in all departments of medical and health care, including internal medicine, surgery, gynecology, pediatrics, traditional Chinese medicine, anesthesiology, patient care, pathology, clinical laboratories, and public health. Currently there are nearly , Chinese medical workers providing assistance at  health care facilities in  countries across the globe. Outbound volunteers. From  to , China dispatched more than , young volunteers and volunteer Chineselanguage teachers to work in over  countries around the world. Emergency humanitarian aid. From  to , China extended emergency humanitarian assistance to  countries. This included providing supplies and equipment, dispatching international rescue teams and medical expert groups, and repairing damaged facilities. Debt relief. From  to , China canceled RMB. billion of debts involving  mature interestfree loans to least developed countries, heavily indebted poor countries, and landlocked and small island developing countries. . Groundbreaking Progress in Reform and Management To better adapt to the new circumstances, China has reformed its foreign aid systems and mechanisms to improve management and promote international development cooperation in the new era. Institutional reform. In April , the Chinese government set up the China International Development Cooperation Agency CIDCA directly under the State Council. This is a significant move to safeguard world peace and promote common development. It serves to better plan and coordinate efforts on international cooperation and build synergy for development. The establishment of such a specialized agency represents a milestone in Chinas foreign aid journey. Better management. China has improved its evaluation mechanisms for foreign aid projects, so as to raise the quality and depth of feasibility analysis. To make feasibility studies more forwardlooking, environmental impact, future management and other longterm factors are taken into consideration. China has formulated clearly defined project management rules and regulations, improved procedures for governmental procurement, contract performance, and qualification assessment of enterprises bidding for foreign aid projects, and endeavored to establish a tendering system focusing on high quality and competitive pricing. To guard against corruption, China has strengthened the performance appraisal mechanism for entities undertaking projects. China has optimized its rapid response mechanism for emergency humanitarian aid to ensure prompt and effective assistance, and strengthened supervision and evaluation to improve the overall efficiency of its foreign aid. III. Boosting International Cooperation on the Belt and Road Since the Belt and Road Initiative was proposed, China has carried out development cooperation and contributed to policy, infrastructure, trade, financial and peopletopeople connectivity based on the needs of individual countries, creating space and opportunities to promote highquality Belt and Road cooperation. . Enhancing Policy Coordination Policy coordination is the foundation for Belt and Road participants to strengthen political mutual trust, develop pragmatic cooperation and integrate their interests. Based on the principle of seeking and expanding common ground while reserving and resolving differences, China has invited foreign officials to participate in training sessions, and dispatched experts and advisors to participating countries, to promote bilateral communication and understanding and create synergy for common development. Building platforms for the Belt and Road Initiative to dovetail with the development strategies of participating countries. China has held over , training sessions for officials from participating countries on Belt and Road topics such as infrastructure connectivity, industrial capacity, equipment standardization, trade facilitation, and technological standardization. The training programs serve as a communication platform for coordinating policies among countries within the Belt and Road framework. Participants of the programs discussed and planned jointly on ways to link the Belt and Road Initiative with regional and national initiatives, such as Agenda  of the African Union, the Master Plan on ASEAN Connectivity , EUs EuropeAsia connectivity strategy, 