UK records highest daily COVID death toll since April
2021/1/8 10:16
A man receives the second dose of the PfizerBioNTech COVID vaccine at Hyde Leisure Centre in Greater Manchester, Britain, on Jan , .  LONDON  Britain reported a further , coronavirusrelated deaths in the latest hour period, the highest since April , official figures showed Thursday. This brought the total number of coronavirusrelated deaths in Britain to ,, the data showed. Meanwhile, Britain recorded another , coronavirus cases, bringing the total number of coronavirus cases in the country to ,,. A woman wearing a face mask walks along the Tower Bridge in London, Britain, on Jan , .  The latest figures were revealed as British Health Secretary Matt Hancock predicted Thursday that Englands latest national lockdown will be the last full shutdown to tackle the COVID crisis as the country continues to roll out vaccines. Hancock also predicted that vaccines and coronavirus testing would still be part of life during . There is absolutely no doubt that vaccines and testing will still be a feature next year, he told the health committee of the House of Commons, lower house of parliament. We will need both the surveillance testing to be able to understand where the virus is and we will need testing for people who have symptoms, in the same way that you get tested for all sorts of other things, he said. People walk along Tower Bridge in London, Britain, on Jan , .  British Prime Minister Boris Johnson has warned that the easing of Englands new national lockdown, the third of its kind since the pandemic began in the country, would be a gradual unwrapping and not a big bang. Announcing the lockdown on Monday evening in a televised address, Johnson urged people across the country to stay at home except for permitted reasons, echoing the message back in March . To bring life back to normal, countries such as Britain, China, Germany, Russia and the United States have been racing against time to develop coronavirus vaccines.