Latest on the COVID outbreak
2021/1/8 9:35
Workers finish loading cargo for a Hamburgbound shipment in Xiamen, Fujian province, on Nov . Trade between China and the EU grew in the first  months of last year. WEI PEIQUANXINHUA Pandemic fails to slow pace of trade and deals struck with partner China The conclusion in principle of the negotiations for the ChinaEU Comprehensive Agreement on Investment, or CAI, on Dec  highlighted a year of fruitful bilateral relations. Despite the COVID pandemic, negotiations for the agreement, which started seven years ago, speeded up in  after leaders from both sides pledged to wrap up the talks by the end of that year. We welcome the political agreement achieved on negotiations on investment, European Council President Charles Michel said in a tweet after a video talk between EU leaders and President Xi Jinping on Dec . In the past few years, many Chinese companies operating in the EU have complained about a less friendly business environment. They likened the EUs antitrust review process, foreign direct investment screening and foreign subsidies reviews as three huge mountains weighing heavily on their chests, according to a survey by the China Chamber of Commerce to the EU, or CCCEU. Chinese telecom giant Huawei has opposed the arbitrary use of security assessment in restricting its access to the EUs G market. However, an EU official indicated that the Huawei case fits under public procurement and is not covered by the CAI, and the same is true for investment screening on national security grounds. The CCCEU expects China and EU to promptly complete the followup work, ratify the treaty and implement it in a timely way so that to further boost bilateral investment and trade, the CCCEU said in a statement after the conclusion of the talks for the investment pact. The EU accounts for about  percent of Chinas foreign direct investment stock, while China makes up . percent of the EUs FDI stock, according to the China Mission to the EU. Zhang Ming, head of the mission, said the numbers are inconsistent with the size of the economies of the two sides and the expectations held by both. With the investment agreement, Chinese and EU investors will be able to further tap the potential to explore more opportunities in each others market, he said on Dec . The conclusion of the negotiations for the investment agreement came after China and the EU reported bilateral trade of  million in the first  months of , up . percent over the same period in the previous year. Each side registered increases in exports to the other market. The headline figure has made China the EUs largest trading partner, replacing the United States. In , China and the EU witnessed many highlevel meetings and initiatives despite the challenges posed by the pandemic. In virtual gatherings, the leaders of the two sides held the nd ChinaEU Summit in June and the ChinaGermanyEU Summit in September. Germany, which held the presidency of the Council of the European Union in the second half of , played an instrumental role in pushing forward the CAI. Chineseborn Italian pianist Jin Ju performs in the Quirinale Palace in Rome on Feb . The concert was held to express the solidarity of the Chinese people with Italians during the countrys initial outbreak of COVID. CHENG TINGTINGXINHUA Highlevel dialogues In the past year, China and the EU also held the th HighLevel Trade and Economic Dialogue, the th HighLevel Strategic Dialogue, and the th HighLevel PeopletoPeople Dialogue. The two sides launched the HighLevel Dialogue on Environment and Climate Change and the HighLevel Digital Dialogue. During the year, President Xi, Premier Li Keqiang, VicePremier Liu He and State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi held phone calls with EU leaders as well as leaders of the blocs  member states. In late August, Wang visited Italy, the Netherlands, Norway, France and Germany. On Sept , China and the EU signed a bilateral agreement to protect  Chinese Geographical Indications, or GIs, in the EU and  European GIs in China against usurpation and imitation, after the agreement was first concluded in November . The GIs under protection include those for products such as Pixian bean paste, Anji white tea and Panjin rice from China and Munich beer, Irish whiskey and Porto from the EU. Zhang said that despite the pandemic, China and the EU saw an increase in interactions in . This is a big year for ChinaEU relations, he said of the past year. China and the EU have helped each other in the fight against COVID. When the epidemic broke out in China in the early part of , the EU and its member states provided  tons of medical supplies to China. When the pandemic spread fast in EU member states from midMarch, China sent medical supplies to them, including medical teams to Italy, the worsthit EU nation. According to statistics, the EU imported  million euros  million of medical supplies from China to fight the pandemic in the first eight months of . Face masks and ventilators accounted for the bulk of the imports. From the viewpoint of EU leaders, the blocs relationship with China is complex. While China and the EU had long ago established a comprehensive strategic partnership, EU leaders since March  have called China a cooperation and negotiation partner, an economic competitor and a systemic rival. Zhang said China and EU are partners, not rivals. He added that the two sides are engaged far more in cooperation than competition, and have far more consensus than differences. One major consensus concerns climate change. The EU warmly applauded when Xi in September announced that China would become carbon neutral by . Shada Islam, head of the New Horizons Project, a global strategic and advisory firm, said both sides have embarked on a highlevel dialogue on climate change that is very significant. She notes that its nothing unusual for EUChina ties to experience ups and downs. The EU did manage to stay out of the fray and did not, as many wanted it to, fall into the binary trap of either choosing the US or China as key partners, she told China Daily. Islam called the CAI a nice way to end a good year for Europe and Asia relations, citing also the EUJapan and EUASEAN deals clinched in the latter completed with members of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations. Ding Chun, director of the Center for European Studies at Shanghaibased Fudan University, said he is cautiously optimistic about ChinaEU relations. He stressed that the two sides are important trade partners and have great potential for cooperation in digitalization, green development and thirdcountry markets. The two sides have a mature mechanism to manage their differences through effective dialogues,Ding said. He believes that China and EU have no fundamental conflicts in geopolitical interests and have open channels for highlevel dialogue. They also have many common interests in joining hands in improving global governance, Ding said.