Johnson looks for ways to get economy moving
2021/1/8 9:24
Pedestrians wearing protective masks, following the coronavirus disease COVID outbreak, walk out of a station during a commuting hour at a business district in Tokyo, Japan, Jan , .  Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga on Thursday declared a state of emergency for Tokyo and three neighboring prefectures after days of record coronavirus counts and a rapidly rising death toll. It was the nations first such declaration since April. The announcement covers the capital and the prefectures of Kanagawa, Saitama and Chiba and it will be imposed from Friday until Feb . The situation has worsened recently nationwide, and I feel a strong sense of crisis, Suga said.We will take thorough steps. Sugas declaration came five days after governors from the affected prefectures had pleaded with the central government to act, citing explosive growth in infections in the vast capital region. Suga also promised that the Tokyo Olympic Games would be held this summer, as cases nationwide topped , in Japan for the first time on Thursday. Tokyo, with , cases, was among a host of regions that saw record oneday increases in infections. Deaths in the country had also doubled in the past few weeks, passing , and posing further challenges to the effectiveness of the expected measures. Yasutoshi Nishimura, the minister in charge of the response to COVID, said earlier in the day that the emergency declaration could be lifted if the daily number of coronavirus cases in Tokyo falls to , or about onefifth of the current level. However, under the emergency the government doesnt envisage the kind of lockdowns seen in other parts of the world, and Japan for now is seeking far less stringent measures to preserve economic activities. Residents will be asked to avoid going out only after  pm and all restaurants and bars will be instructed to close at that time. Employers have been asked to encourage staff members to work from home, but schools, museums and venues for big events will remain open. It relies mostly on voluntary compliance, meaning authorities cant enforce the measures for now. Suga said the government will increase financial support for bars and restaurants that cooperate with its request to shorten business hours from up to , yen  a day to a maximum of , yen, and name and shame those that do not. In sobering comments to reporters on Tuesday, Shigeru Omi, head of a government expert panel that recommended the emergency, said the action would not guarantee a slackening in the rate of infection.