Strides made in bolstering EU ties
2021/1/7 16:54
Pedestrians wearing protective masks, following the coronavirus disease COVID outbreak, walk out of a station during a commuting hour at a business district in Tokyo, Japan, Jan , .  TOKYO  Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga declared a state of emergency in the Tokyo metropolitan area including Tokyo, Saitama, Chiba and Kanagawa prefectures on Thursday, authorizing tougher measures to fight a resurgence in COVID infections. The state of emergency will be effective from Friday to Feb. , with measures including urging people to stay at home and calling for restaurants and bars to stop serving alcohol by  pm and close by  pm. Gyms, department stores and entertainment facilities will also be subject to shorter operation hours. As the government has set the goal of reducing the number of people in the office by  percent, it also urged companies to have employees work from home or stagger their shifts. Meanwhile, events will be capped at , people or  percent of venue capacity. Tokyo reported a record , new daily COVID infections on Thursday. The latest number of infections in Tokyo far eclipses the previous record of , cases recorded the previous day in the capital of  million. COVID cases in these metropolitan regions have been consistently rising since midNovember, with medical experts warning that the healthcare system could collapse if the virus continues to run rampant. Japan on Wednesday, meanwhile, reported , new daily COVID cases, marking the first time new cases have topped the ,mark and booking the highest number of daily infections on record since the outbreak of the pandemic here. The latest surge in nationwide cases far surpasses the previous record of , new cases booked on Tuesday. Japans central prefecture of Aichi saw its cases rise by  on Wednesday as its Governor Hideaki Omura told a press conference that if this trend continues for a few days he might ask the central government to expand the virus emergency to cover his prefecture. A state of emergency was first declared in Tokyo and six other prefectures on April  last year. It was later expanded to cover the whole country before being lifted in late May.