Latest on the COVID outbreak
2021/1/7 4:05
Video source TwitterElijahSchaffer Heres what we know so far  Four people die amid violence at US Capitol  US Congress resumes certification process after Capitol secured  Leaders, business groups condemn chaos at US Capitol Read more  Biden condemns insurrection at US Capitol, as Trump urges supporters to go home  Facebook joins Twitter in blocking Trump from posting following storming of US Capitol by his supporters The US Capitol building was stormed by hundreds of people carrying proTrump signs and American flags on Wednesday, breaking into the House and Senate chambers as a joint session of Congress began counting Electoral College votes to affirm Presidentelect Joe Bidens victory. A woman identified as Ashli Babbit, an Air Force veteran, was shot during the melee inside the building and later died. She was from the San Diego area and was a staunch supporter of the president, her husband told KUSATV. A video showed her draped in red, white and blue around her neck on the floor of the Capitol with blood pouring from her mouth. About two hours after Metropolitan Police cleared the building and the Capitol steps of protesters, the Senate resumed the process on Wednesday night to affirm Bidens Electoral College victory. VicePresident Mike Pence, who presided over the joint session of Congress, said from the dais, Violence never wins. Freedom wins. And this is still the peoples house. Hours after the siege, House Speaker Nancy Pelosi of California described the attack as a shameful assault  on our democracy. It was anointed at the highest level of government. It cannot, however, deter us from our responsibility to validate the election of Joe Biden. Supporters of US President Donald Trump cover their faces to protect from tear gas during a clash with police officers in front of the US Capitol Building in Washington, January , .  Many lawmakers said they were eager to resume the certification of the vote, saying they didnt want to let the protesters stop them from carrying out their constitutional role. Everyone is committed to staying. Whatever it takes to get our job done, Democratic Senator Joe Manchin of West Virginia said. These thugs are not running us off. Many of the thousands who went to the Capitol building had marched from a Save America Rally at  am near the White House where President Donald Trump had spoken ahead of Congress vote to affirm Bidens Electoral College victory. We will not let them silence your voices, Trump told supporters. We will stop the steal, he said, using the rallying cry of protests against the election results. Shortly after  pm ET, hundreds of people among the throng of proTrump protesters pushed through barriers set up along the perimeter of the Capitol. They started to storm the Capitol building. For a time, senators and members of the House were locked inside their respective chambers. ProTrump protesters gets pepper sprayed by police during a rally to contest the certification of the  US presidential election results by the US Congress, at the US Capitol Building in Washington, US, Jan , .  Capitol Police told lawmakers in the House to take cover on the floor and prepare to use gas masks after tear gas was dispersed in the Capitol Rotunda. Demonstrators moved into the secondfloor lobby just outside the Senate chamber, and police placed themselves in front of the chamber doors. Shortly later, police escorted senators and members of the House from the building to others nearby, as the protesters continued to swarm hallways just steps from where lawmakers were meeting. Armed security officials in the emptied Senate chamber stood at an entrance door with their guns aimed at a door window. Demonstrators used rope to climb the west wall of the Capitol building. Smoke grenades were used on the Senate side of the Capitol. Windows on the west side of the Senate were broken. Live television showed demonstrators fighting inside with Capitol Police. Other live video showed people breaking windows and doors in an attempt to get into the building. Photos of those who got inside showed one person in the chair of Pelosis desk another demonstrator took to the dais of the Senate to declare his support for Trump. This is what youve gotten, guys, Utah Senator Mitt Romney, Republican of Utah, reportedly yelled as the chaos unfolded in the Senate chamber, an apparent reference to colleagues who were leading the days effort to object to some states votes in the Electoral College. This is what the president has caused today, this insurrection, Romney said later, according to The New York Times. A supporter of President Trump watches a message asking violent protesters to go home on Jan ,  in Salem, Oregon.  As the protesters sought to take over the Capitol building, Trump tweeted statements in an attempt to tamp down the rioting. Please support our Capitol Police and Law Enforcement, he posted. They are truly on the side of our Country. Stay peaceful! As the clashes intensified, he tweeted again I am asking for everyone at the U.S. Capitol to remain peaceful. No violence! Remember, WE are the Party of Law  Order  respect the Law and our great men and women in Blue. If protesters read his tweets, they did nothing but continued to seek entrance into the building, scaling walls and shouting USA! USA! Then in a video posted to his Twitter account shortly after  pm, Trump stood on the White House lawn and told the protesters to go home, saying, We love you. He also repeated his debunked claim that the election was stolen. Twitter for  hours and Facebook for  hours later announced temporary suspensions of Trumps account. Biden then responded to the violence, saying in a short TV broadcast, I call on President Trump to go on national television now to fulfill his oath and defend the Constitution and demand an end to this siege. ProTrump protesters clash with Capitol police during a rally to contest the certification of the  US presidential election results by the US Congress, at the US Capitol Building in Washington, US, Jan , .  Mayor Muriel Bowser of Washington declared a citywide curfew from  pm Wednesday to  am Thursday morning. The Army activated the entire District of Columbia National Guard  , troops  in response to a request from Bowser. The nearby states of Maryland and Virginia said they were sending additional National Guard troops and state police to help local police struggling with the protesters. There were reports that Trump had activated National Guard troops. FBI agents were dispatched to help the Metropolitan Police Department that tried to clear the buildings steps of protesters. As the  pm curfew approached, scores of Metropolitan Police in full riot gear moved in and cleared the Capitol steps of protesters. They encountered no resistance as they pushed them off the grounds. Former president Barack Obama accused Trump and Republicans of perpetuating a fantasy narrative about the November election that led to Wednesdays violence at the Capitol. History will rightly remember todays violence at the Capitol, incited by a sitting president who has continued to baselessly lie about the outcome of a lawful election, as a moment of great dishonor and shame for our nation. But wed be kidding ourselves if we treated it as a total surprise, Obama said in a statement. A protester holds a Trump flag inside the US Capitol Building near the Senate Chamber on Jan ,  in Washington, DC. Congress held a joint session today to ratify Presidentelect Joe Bidens  Electoral College win over President Donald Trump. A group of Republican senators said they would reject the Electoral College votes of several states unless Congress appointed a commission to audit the election results. 