US gets vaccine boost amid surging cases
2021/1/7 1:22
A person wearing a mask depicting US President Donald Trump gestures as supporters gather ahead of his speech to contest the certification by the US Congress of the results of the  US presidential election in Washington, US, January , .  WASHINGTON  Thousands of supporters of US President Donald Trump, including members of farright groups, gathered in Washington in protest at a meeting of Congress on Wednesday to certify Joe Bidens victory in Novembers presidential election. Trump, who lost the election promised to address the protesters at the Ellipse, a park near the White House, where Biden is due to take over in two weeks. BIG CROWDS! Trump wrote on Twitter. One of his sons, Eric Trump, warmed up the flagwaving crowds with unfounded conspiracy theories. Is there any person here that actually thinks that Joe Biden won this election? Eric Trump said to shouts of No. The states have all certified that Biden, a Democrat, won the election by  Electoral College votes to Trumps , and Trumps challenges to Bidens victory have floundered in courts across the country. It doesnt matter, Eric Trump said. They can lie they can cheat they can steal. My father has started a movement and this movement will never, ever die. Congress was due to certify Bidens victory on Wednesday. Many of Trumps fellow Republicans have promised a stonewalling effort that could stretch proceedings past midnight but was almost certain to fail. Washington police earlier banned from the city Enrique Tarrio, the leader of the Trumpsupporting farright group the Proud Boys, after he was arrested on Monday for destruction of property and possession of a firearm magazine. Tarrio could not immediately be reached for comment. Crowd control largely fell to the Metropolitan Police Department, which mobilized all , officers, the Capitol Police, the Park Police, the US Secret Service, and more than  members of the citys National Guard, according to Washington police chief Robert Contee and other officials. Police have told protesters not to bring their guns to Washington, which has some of the nations strictest gun laws and bans the open carrying of firearms. On Tuesday evening, Trump supporters trying to reach Black Lives Matter Plaza in Washington were stopped by riot gearclad police, who used pepper spray and batons to drive them back. Reuters