CRRC, taken off stock index, is US jobs creator
2021/1/7 0:00
Ecommerce plays an important role in maintaining peoples livelihoods during the battle against COVID and the stayathome economy is thriving in China, according to a report released by the China National Intellectual Property Administration on Dec . The report took the IP protection models of Chinese mainstream ecommerce platforms such as Alibaba, JD and Suning as examples to analyze the development of ecommerce IP protection during . It also discussed the key issues of IP protection standards and some breakthroughs in the field of crossborder ecommerce. According to data from the National Bureau of Statistics, national online retail sales reached . trillion yuan . trillion from January to October , up . percent yearonyear. Of this amount, online retail sales of tangible goods reached . trillion yuan, growing  percent yearonyear, and accounting for . percent of the total retail sales of social consumer goods. In the first half of , the transaction volume on WeChat mini programs increased by  percent yearonyear. At present, there are nearly , businesses which have opened livestream broadcast accounts on WeChat. A number of ecommerce platforms also launched special zones amid the pandemic, providing free online business training for small business owners and farmers. In , under the efforts of all parties, ecommerce IP protection has achieved remarkable results, according to the report. Cooperation among enterprises, official administrations and consumers is becoming more significant in light of the protection of IP rights on ecommerce platforms. During the pandemic, the demand for masks and other personal protective equipment increased greatly. The Chinese government and ecommerce platforms have worked together to carry out special actions to tackle counterfeit products. Offending merchants were punished by being blocked or having their links taken down. The report also found that techniques to protect IP rights have been continuously invested in and upgraded. Alibaba set up a stringent entry mechanism when reviewing businesses to be launched on its platform. It adopts a manual examination when granting licenses for shops and products. About  percent of IP infringement complaints are handled within  hours. JD launched the Red Net system to provide targeted protection for wellknown brands and special business names. It has provided services for more than , wellknown brands so far. ByteDances Lingshi system, which is dedicated to protecting the copyrights and interests of original authors, can automatically analyze videos copyrights to quickly find infringing content. The results also showed that a package of comprehensive protection and management standards is needed in crossborder ecommerce IP protection. Han Xiucheng, director of the IP development research center at NIPA, said all countries should actively cooperate to explore IP protection centered on international rules and optimize methods when handling trade disputes. This would ensure smooth crossborder ecommerce transactions and effective IP protection action. The center will conscientiously apply the guidance of the Chinese central government and adhere to problemsolving working methods and hot spot issues, Han added. liyouchinadaily.com.cn WU HEPINGFOR CHINA DAILY