US warns of twindemic prior to holiday season with COVID pill, booster vaccines in clearance
2021/10/11 16:57
People wear face masks as they walk down a street amid the COVID pandemic in Havana, Cuba, Oct , .  HAVANA  The number of COVID hospitalization and deaths in Cuba continue to decline as the Caribbean nation speeds up its pace of immunization rollout with homegrown vaccines. Cuba on Sunday reported a total of , confirmed cases and  more related deaths, taking the national counts to , and , respectively. For the past two weeks, the number of active COVID cases on the island have dropped from , to ,, according to official data released by the Cuban Ministry of Public Health MINSAP. In addition, the daily COVID deaths across the country have fallen from just well over  to less than  in a period of  days. The westernmost province of Pinar del Rio, the epicenter of the pandemic, logged , cases in the last fortnight, followed by the provinces of Camaguey , and Sancti Spiritus ,. Francisco Duran, national director of epidemiology at the MINSAP, said that the highest COVID transmission rates have been reported in the central region of the island nation. We must not leave the guard down despite the mass vaccination campaign, he said, adding that the Cuban people is bringing the sanitary emergency under control. By November, Cuba expects to vaccinate more than  percent of its  million population, including children and adolescents aged . So far, more than  million people, or about . percent of the countrys population have been fully jabbed with three doses of domestic COVID vaccines, according to the MINSAP. And more than  million doses of Soberana , Soberana Plus and Abdala vaccines have been administered all over the country since the rollout started last May. Cuba has recorded , confirmed cases and  deaths so far in October, with  patients in intensive care units. Nationwide, the Cuban government continued to ease COVID lockdown restrictions with the gradual reopening of schools, restaurants, cafeterias, beaches and gyms. Additionally, the Caribbean nation will no longer demand a COVID polymerase chain reaction PCR test upon arrival and COVID vaccination certificates issued abroad will be accepted by customs authorities from Nov. .