NBA toughens maskwearing rules
2021/1/6 9:14
Kevin Durant is expected to miss the Brooklyn Nets next four games in accordance with the NBAs coronavirus rules.  MIAMIThe NBA is adopting a tougher policy regarding masks, telling teams Monday that players on the active roster will have to wear the face coverings in the bench area until they enter games. That memo, obtained by Associated Press, was released on the same day the Brooklyn Nets ruled AllStar forward Kevin Durant out of Tuesdays game against Utah in accordance with the leagues health and safety protocols for dealing with coronavirus. Among the new rules, which take effect Tuesday players who are dressed for games and eligible to participate must wear a face mask until they enter the game, all players and coaches must wear face masks when outside the team environment if they are around other players and coaches, and players must report the names of any private trainer, therapist, chiropractor or other specialist who they work with outside of the team facility. Its the latest update to a plan the NBA and the National Basketball Players Association are continuing to evaluate, especially lately given the continued spike in cases following the holiday season. If players are working with trainers or therapists away from the team facility, theyre also being reminded to wear masks and take all possible precautions. Meanwhile, a person with knowledge of the situation said Durant will have to complete a sevenday quarantine, which would also rule him out of three additional gamesat home against Philadelphia on Thursday, at Memphis on Friday and home again to play Oklahoma City on Sunday. The person spoke to AP on condition of anonymity Monday because the Nets did not disclose that publicly. Durant, who had coronavirus in May, tested negative in recent days, the source told AP. That would indicate Durant was exposed to someone who has tested positive for coronavirus, based on the protocols the NBA and NBPA are using. ESPN and The Athletic first reported Durant would be entering quarantine and missing games. Durant is averaging . points over six games for the Nets, who are off to a  start. Regarding the updated mask rules, a player who comes out of a game is not requiredbut strongly recommended, the league saidto put on a mask after returning to the bench area. The rules reset at halftime players who arent in the game to start the third quarter need to wear masks until going into the game. Inactive players have been required to wear masks for the duration of the game, and that rule remains unchanged. Coaches are also mandated to wear masks while on the sideline, another rule that remains in place. The league also told teams Monday it has increased the maximum travel party size by one. Its now  people, the change being made so teams can add a staffer tasked with handling contacttracing requirements during road trips. AP