Mapping the outbreak
2021/1/6 6:40
China tops global patent applications in  with the number of patent applications reaching . million, more than twice the amount of the US, which ranks second on the list, the World Intellectual Property Organization said. Japan, the Korean Intellectual Property Office and the European Patent Office respectively ranked third, fourth and fifth for patent applications, according to the World Intellectual Property Indicators Report released by the WIPO, a specialized agency of the United Nations. The report also indicated that, primarily driven by longterm growth in China, Asian countries received about  percent of all patent applications filed worldwide  a considerable increase over the . percent in . Lets take a look at the worlds top  powerhouses for patent applications in . No  Australia People take photos in front of a Welcome Back sign in Melbourne after coronavirus disease restrictions were eased for the state of Victoria, Australia, on Oct , .  No  the Russian Federation A police officer approaches two women walking in Red Square in Moscow during a strict lockdown in Russia to stop the spread of the novel coronavirus.  No  Canada Two skaters take a selfie in Toronto, Canada, on Dec , .  No  India A girl wears a protective mask in Mumbai, India, on Sept , .  No  Germany Christmas lights are pictured at Tauenzien Street in Berlin, Germany, on Nov , .  No  the European Patent Office A screenshot from the European Patent Offices official website. .org No  the Korean Intellectual Property Office A screenshot from the Korean Intellectual Property Offices official website.  kipo.go.kr No  Japan A boy in a stroller reacts to Boston Dynamics fourlegged robot Spot during its demonstration at the Tokyo Robot Collection on Sept , .  No  the United States A man passes through the Times Square in New York.  No  China A visitor inquires about IP protection at the China International Fair for Trade in Services in Beijing on Sept , . Photo by Yang Yangchinadaily.com.cn