Oxford English Dictionary names words of the year
2021/1/5 9:34
A staff member wearing a face mask arranges stacks of Chinese yuan banknotes at a bank in Nantong, East Chinas Jiangsu province, on Jan , .  Policy advisers agree on prevention of potential sideeffects of tax measures A mechanism to withdraw special fiscal stimulus measures smoothly and gradually in the postpandemic period is needed to stabilize market expectations and minimize shocks from policy shifts, said fiscal management experts. The government may prepare and publish a list of policies that will be gradually withdrawn, indicating specific time and actions, in order to curb risks related to the coronavirus pandemic, according to a report from the Chinese Academy of Fiscal Sciences, the research body of the Ministry of Finance. On the one hand, we have to take cautious measures for adjusting the stimulus policy and consolidating the economic recovery momentum. On the other, we have to prevent sideeffects of overstimulated activities, said Wang Zhigang, deputy chief of the macroeconomic research center of the academy. Policy advisers agreed that the financial relief measure that exempts social security fees for small and mediumsized enterprises may have ended in , and may not be extended this year. The cuts in taxes and fees, which were expected to be worth more than . trillion yuan  billion in , could reduce costs of firms but also increase fiscal imbalances. Considering the sustainability of the governments fiscal measures, the research body of the Ministry of Finance suggested additional tax reforms, focusing on reducing the valueadded tax and adjusting the personal income tax, to rebalance the structure of Chinas tax system and keep the government income stable. The academy showed that under the countrys tax and fee reduction policy, in , the governments tax income increased by  percent on a yearly basis, the slowest since , while the total general public budgeted revenue, which also includes nontax income, rose . percent, the slowest rate since . We hedged against the public crisis at the expense of an increase of fiscal risk, said Liu Shangxi, head of the Chinese Academy of Fiscal Sciences. Liu led a research project last year to study the fiscal and economic situation of several local governments in regions across China, which concluded uneven economic recovery and fiscal capacity among different regions. Unprecedented fiscal stimulus through an expansion of fiscal deficits and a boost to government bonds has increased debt repayment pressure, especially for local authorities. For most local governments, the peak of debt maturity will be reached in the  period, amid a slowdown of government revenue growth, according to Lius research. Some areas with difficulties in reducing the local governments implicit debt can start the new debt swap pilot programs, taking the last round of debt swap measures as referenceshifting the local governments contingent liability into publicly issued bonds, the research report said. Other possible measures to ease debt repayment pressure include borrowing more to pay existing debt and debt rollover. The debttoequity swap scheme, debt restructuring and settlement could also be options to write off unpayable debt, the report stated. The annual meeting of the Ministry of Finance, which was chaired by Finance Minister Liu Kun on Thursday, stressed that local government debt risks should be kept under control and fiscal policy be made consistent and sustainable. The finance minister called for better measures to take advantage of local governments special bonds this year, to effectively raise funds for major infrastructure projects. A policy tracker of the International Monetary Fund indicated that since the pandemic outbreak, China has announced an estimated . trillion yuan, or . percent of GDP, in discretionary fiscal measures. Key measures include increased spending on epidemic prevention and control, production of medical equipment, accelerated disbursement of unemployment insurance and extension to migrant workers, tax relief and waived social security contributions alongside additional public investment.