African countries extend, tighten curfews
2021/1/4 20:23
? Schoolchildren queue to have their temperature checked before entering the Olympic Primary School during the reopening of schools, after the government closed learning institutions due to the coronavirus disease COVID outbreak, in Kibera slums of Nairobi, on Jan , .  As the number of confirmed COVID cases in the African continent surpassed the  million mark, leaders in a number of countries have announced measures to extend curfews or tighten lockdown rules to curb the steady rise in cases. According to the Africa Center for Disease Control and Prevention, the number of cases reached ,, as of Sunday, the death toll has reached , and a total of ,, people infected with COVID have recovered from the infectious virus across the continent so far. Uhuru Kenyatta, Kenyas president, through an executive order released on Sunday, announced that the nationwide curfew in place is extended to March , and it will continue to be enforced between  pm and  am daily. Kenyatta added that all forms of public events and gatherings that may act as super spreader events for COVID, including political and roadside gatherings, shall remain suspended for the next  days. In Botswana, Edwin Dikoloti, the minister of health and wellness, made an announcement through national television on Sunday, saying the curfew, enacted by the president on Dec , will continue to be enforced up to Jan  following the emergence of a new and more transmissible strain of COVID. Virusrelated risks have increased in Botswana, according to evidence submitted by the director of health services, the minister said, stressing that curfew is effective to curbing rising coronavirus infections. Dikoloti added that rising COVID cases during the Christmas and New Year holidays showed that people have not been strictly abiding by the set regulations to prevent the spreading of the virus. In Zimbabwe, the government has extended a nationwide curfew, banned gatherings and ordered nonessential businesses closed for a month in an effort to curb a surge in coronavirus infections. Constantino Chiwenga, Zimbabwes vicepresident who also is the health minister, said on Saturday that some of the tighter restrictions were effective immediately and included a  pm to  am curfew and a ban on intercity travel. People must stay at home except for buying food and medicines or transporting sick relatives. Only essential services are to remain open, such as hospitals, pharmacies and supermarkets, with only essential staff allowed to come to work, Chiwenga told a news conference. South Africa, which is battling an unprecedented new wave of COVID infections, will also return to a lockdown regime last seen five months ago. The measures taken will include a ban on alcohol sales, an extension of a curfew from  pm until  am, the closure of all beaches, lakes, dams and rivers and new restrictions on social gatherings. Cyril Ramaphosa, South Africas president, told his countrymen in a televised New Year address that those not wearing masks face six months in jail. He added that the lockdown measures could be eased in midJanuary if there is a sustained reduction in the number of infections.