Port Qasim Power Plant achieves annual power generation goals
2021/1/4 17:07
As of midnight on Dec , the Port Qasim Coalfired Power Plant in Pakistan had generated . billion kilowatthours of power, completing . percent of the annual power generation plan. The power facility was invested and constructed by POWERCHINA. It is the first implementation project and the first largescale electric energy project of the ChinaPakistan Economic Corridor. Pakistans Port Qasim Coalfired Power Plant is the first largescale electric energy project of the ChinaPakistan Economic Corridor.  With an installed capacity of MW and a designed annual power generation capacity of  billion kWh, the power plant has achieved , consecutive days of safe operations. It has generated . billion kWh of power since its first unit was put into operation in November . In , in response to the unexpected COVID pandemic, the Port Qasim Port Power Generation Co was able to implement disease prevention and control measures while maintaining project production and operation. During the pandemic, the company overcame disadvantages such as a shortage of personnel and limited coal supply. It also protected the rights and interests of more than  local employees working at the power station. Chinese and Pakistani workers wear masks while working at the Port Qasim Coalfired Power Plant.  POWERCHINA actively fulfilled its social responsibilities and organized donations to Pakistan to fight the pandemic. The company has donated more than , masks, , face shields,  boxes of disinfectant and  sets of protective clothing to Pakistani hospitals, governments and organizations. At present, the Port Qasim Coalfired Power Plant has become the most technologically advanced green and environmentally friendly power station. It has the highest load capacity, power generation capabilities and the lowest ongrid electricity price in Pakistan, making positive contributions to Pakistans economic and social development and improving peoples livelihoods.