Germans seek traffic light coalition govt
2021/10/11 9:46
A shared granny helps children paint face masks during a free lecture about Peking Opera in Shipingcun community, Jiulongpo district, Chongqing, in July. DENG RUICHINA DAILY Retired women are giving hardpressed parents a helping hand. Deng Rui and Tan Yingzi report. If the kids cant feel a grannys love, we like to act as replacements, said Huang Zejun, a shared granny in the southwestern municipality of Chongqing. Actually, we warm each others hearts through our mutual company. A group of senior women in Chongqing who serve as shared grannieshelping working parents by picking up their children from school and accompanying them as they do homework and playhas won a lot of praise online recently. The team, from Shipingcun community in the citys Jiulongpo district, consists of nine female retirees, mostly empty nesters, ranging in age from  to . These volunteers shoulder the responsibility of taking care of  pupils from the communitys Yangshilu Primary School. Before the summer break, the school could only offer afterclass services for the students until  pm every Tuesday to Friday. On Mondays, however, the students got off school at  pm, earlier than usual, but their parents or relatives were unable to spare the time to collect them. By chance, the Chongqing Amber Social Work Service Center, a public service organization, was established in the district in November. In April, the center introduced the municipalitys first shared grannies program, with the aim of integrating the joint efforts of families, the school and the community to support the children. To provide care and public services for both young and old in the community, the program recruits healthy retired women and also invites younger volunteers to tutor the children with their homework and oversee them as they play. It provides a series of public welfare activitiessuch as free talent training, like making zongzi balls of glutinous rice with various fillings to celebrate Dragon Boat Festival, planting vegetables or growing flowers. Moreover, during traditional holidays, the center arranges for the families to pay visits to the grannies as a way of thanking them for their efforts, according to Mao Yu, a yearold volunteer. The program gained a lot of positive feedback in just a few months. On Sina Weibo, Chinas Twitterlike social media platform, one netizen commented, The model is great and worth promoting in other places in the country. On July , during the summer vacation, the center provided a free lecture about Peking Opera for the children and grannies in a community function room. The attendees sang and performed Peking Opera, and painted the distinctive face masks together. A volunteer teaches a child to wrap zongzi, or sticky rice dumplings, during the Dragon Boat Festival at Shipingcun community in June. CHINA DAILY Meaning and progress Deng Lihong signed up for the program as soon as she saw the recruitment advertisement. At  every Monday afternoon, the yearold collects children from school and stays with them as they do their homework and play in the community room until their parents pick them up. This is exactly what Ive wanted to do since retirement, and I see nothing to boast about. I feel young when Im with the kids, and my retired life is meaningful, she said. The initiator of the program has done a really good thing! Cui Jingqin has been sending Wu Ruili, her yearold son, to the community since the program started. The yearold selfemployed laborer said her parentsinlaw are in poor health and need to be cared for. Moreover, she and her husband dont have enough time or education to help with their sons studies. The learning atmosphere here is good. My son has made progress this semester, especially in math, Cui said. Huang Zejun retired from her job as a government employee in  and now lives alone. Its a matter of social concern If the young people are strong, the country will be strong, the yearold said. She noted that children who lack the love and care of preoccupied family members, as well as society, are more likely to experience loneliness and depression, which could result in social problems. Peng Mei, secretary of the Party committee of Shipingcun community, said We mobilize retired senior women in the community to participate in this public service. The interactions between the families in need and the shared grannies are mutually beneficial. The sense of fulfillment and happiness means a lot to them. Cao Yidan, chairman of the center, said, The team is still expanding. This semester, the primary school will provide afterclass services every workday, so the center is seeking further cooperation with the school and families. Shared services for the grannies to take the children to and from school or shared lectures might be a direction to go in. As the saying goes A friend nearby is better than a relative far away, Cao said. I want to link all the residents in the community to produce an interdependent model for young and old. Members of the team watch over children as they do their homework in the community in May. CHINA DAILY