Canadian man publishes book on COVID experience in Chongqing
2021/1/4 13:12
The launch of Kais Diary, a book about a Canadians COVID experience in Southwest Chinas Chongqing, is held at Zhongshuge Bookstore, Chongqing, on Dec , . Photo by Wang Yilingfor chinadaily.com.cn On Sunday, a book telling the stories of a Canadians COVID days in Southwest Chinas Chongqing was launched. Since the COVID outbreak, Canadian writer and teacher Jorah Kai Wood had been keeping notes C journals of his  days of quarantine in Chongqing, where he has lived since . Wood works as a teacher at Chongqing Foreign Language School. He married a Chongqing woman, Wang Xiaolin, in . He spent about  hours a day learning about the virus and making journal entries at night. The diary about his daily life in quarantine has been published on several social media platforms, where it attracted a lot of interest abroad. Impressed by the strong requirements the local government imposed to control the epidemic  face masks, social distancing, blocking vehicles coming from the east and mandatory  day quarantines for all new arrivals  he passed the information to his family and friends in Canada, which helped them prepare for the day the pandemic jumped global borders. The launch of Kais Diary, a book about a Canadians COVID experience in Southwest Chinas Chongqing, is held at Zhongshuge Bookstore, Chongqing, on Dec , . Photo by Wang Yilingfor chinadaily.com.cn The English and Chinese versions, including Woods  journals from January  to March , were published in May and August by New World Press, a Chinese publishing house. It is sciencebased and shares many good protocols as to how to be safe in a pandemic. By now, many people know these things already, but it is interesting to see how Chongqing successfully fought and beat the epidemic when many advanced nations struggle so much with this, Wood said. I also hope my stoic philosophy and attitude of resilience will encourage people to use this opportunity to become stronger, mentally and physically, and be mindful, enjoy the simple and most important joys in life such as family and good health. The English version, Kais Diary, will be published in Canada and will be listed in the mainstream bookseller channels such as Indigo and Amazon for promotion and distribution in early . The launch of Kais Diary, a book about a Canadians COVID experience in Southwest Chinas Chongqing, is held at Zhongshuge Bookstore, Chongqing, on Dec , . Photo by Wang Yilingfor chinadaily.com.cn The launch of Kais Diary, a book about a Canadians COVID experience in Southwest Chinas Chongqing, is held at Zhongshuge Bookstore, Chongqing, on Dec , . Photo by Wang Yilingfor chinadaily.com.cn