The world in photos Dec   Jan
2021/1/4 11:29
Here are some of the most striking images taken from around the world over the past week. A boy has fun on a snow tube near the Novodevichy Monastery in Moscow, Russia, on Jan , .  Musicians of the Vienna Philharmonic under the baton of Italian conductor Riccardo Muti perform during the  Vienna Philharmonic New Years Concert in Vienna, Austria, on Jan , . The New Years Concert by Vienna Philharmonic took place in front of empty ranks in the Golden Hall of the Musikverein in Vienna, the first time in its year history since the event started in .  The Azadi Tower is illuminated in Tehran, Iran, on Jan , , during a ceremony on the occasion of first anniversary of death of Qassem Soleimani, former commander of the Quds Force of Irans Islamic Revolution Guards Corps.  The Rua Augusta arch is illuminated with the colors of the European Union to mark the beginning of Portugals Presidency of the Council of the European Union, in Lisbon, Portugal, on Jan , . On Jan , , Portugal assumed the sixmonth rotating Presidency of the EU Council for the fourth time.  A shipment containing boxes of Chinas Sinovac COVID vaccine arrives at Esenboga Airport in Ankara, Turkey, Dec , . The first batch of  million doses of Chinas SinoVac COVID vaccine arrived in the Turkish capital Ankara early Wednesday. Mass vaccination will start following  days of tests, Turkish Health Minister Fahrettin Koca tweeted Wednesday.  Fireworks are seen above Sydney Harbour Bridge in Sydney, Australia, on Jan , . Australias New Years Eve celebrations have been hampered by fresh COVID cases in Sydney and Melbourne, with the public urged to spend the occasion at home.  The New Years Eve ball drops in a mostly empty Times Square in New York City on Jan , . On average, about one million revelers are drawn to the Crossroads of the World to watch performances and celebrate the New Year. This year, a limited live audience of about  first responders and essential workers were allowed to watch the New Years ball drop from a secure area in Times Square.  A worker wearing a face mask is seen in an openair market in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, on Dec , .  European Council President Charles Michel right and European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen attend a signing ceremony in Brussels, Belgium, Dec , . European Council President Charles Michel and European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen signed the postBrexit trade deal with Britain on Wednesday on behalf of the European Union.  A fountain is projected with the image of a broken heart and words of Zagreb for Banovina on the occasion of Day of Mourning for earthquake victims in Zagreb, Croatia, on Jan , . A .magnitude earthquake hit central Croatia on Tuesday, killing seven and injuring dozens. 