Xis speech sets goals for
2021/1/4 0:00
Global experts said President Xi Jinpings New Years address has emphasized the importance of the people and set important national development and economic goals for . Christopher Bovis, an international business law professor at the University of Hull in the United Kingdom, said Xi welcomed the New Year by praising the resilience and courage of the Chinese people and their efforts to combat the pandemic over the past year. He appreciated that Xi reaffirmed Chinas commitment to international cooperation, multilateralism, and continuous reform of domestic systems which will focus on economic growth without losing touch with policies destined to promote human development and the protection of individuals. Rana Mitter, a professor specializing in history and politics of modern China at the University of Oxford, said that the COVID pandemic has been an economic blow to the entire world. China can take a lead by making it clear that mutual trade, open markets, and a genuine willingness to exchange human capital and talent across borders will create a highvalue global economy for all, he said. Noting that Xi put an emphasis on revitalizing rural China in his address, Joe Thomas Karackattu from the China Studies Centre at the Indian Institute of Technology Madras said it seems to be a strong directional message and is crucial for the th FiveYear Plan . Karackattu said Xis statement in which he said that China should create more stories of Spring is inextricably linked to fostering more interdependence with the rest of the world. The economic dimension is also paired with the societal dimension of a shared future for mankind, he said. Clearly, Chinas outreach to the world is being projected as a multidimensional effort. It is interesting to note Xi stressing on a new pattern of development for China, built on the cornerstone of highquality development, Karackattu said. Clearly the direction for the Chinese economy to focus on innovative growth is underlined in his message. Gerald Mbanda, founder of Africa China Review, a website focusing on news reports and comments on ChinaAfrica cooperation, said Xis speech dwelt much on the COVID pandemic, in which he lauded the countrys efforts in the fight against COVID and took the time to thank the different institutions, professionals and ordinary citizens for their hard work and sacrifice. He said that Xis advocacy for a community with a shared future for mankind was more significant and relevant in , as no single country could claim to win the war against the pandemic without working together with other countries. Global outlook Jon Taylor, professor and department chair of Political Science and Geography at the University of Texas at San Antonio, said Xis speech set important national development and economic goals while also noting some significant milestones that will take place this year, such as the th anniversary of the founding of the Communist Party of China. He also said that there was a notable quote recognizing the hard work of the average Chinese citizen last year Greatness is forged in the ordinary. Heroes come from the people. Every person is remarkable. Adhere Cavince, an international relations scholar focusing on ChinaAfrica relations, said that due to the resilience and sacrifice of the Chinese people, the successful fight against the pandemic enabled China to resume economic activity and register positive growth while sharing its epidemic control experience, commodities and medical personnel with the rest of the world. The donation of millions of essential commodities including ventilators, face masks, protective clothing and medicine to developing economies, especially in Africa, sets China apart as a major country that values global cooperation and solidarity against the biggest threat to the international community, he said. Another key point from Xis speech that resonated with the rest of the world was the transition of China into a moderately prosperous society. By eliminating extreme poverty from its borders, Beijing has shown that the war against poverty, as outlined in the Sustainable Development Goals of the United Nations, is attainable. Sikhumbuzo Zondi, a research assistant at the Institute for Global Dialogue, which is associated with the University of South Africa, said Xis speech highlighted the fact that the sudden rise of the pandemic has emphasized the importance of valuing human life by putting people at the center of government action. Yang Han in Hong Kong, Han Baoyi in London, Liu Hongjie and Chen Yingqun in Beijing contributed to this story. Contact the writers at wangmingjiechinadailyuk.com