Gaining ground
2021/1/4 0:00
The novel coronavirus outbreak has caused the world economy to experience its biggest recession in nearly a century. Although the countrys economic growth rate has been lower than its potential rate, thanks to its structural advantages and resilience, China is expected to become the only major economy to achieve positive growth in . With the progress of pandemic prevention and control and widescale vaccination programs, the world economy may recover in general in . However, Chinas rapid catchingup is still expected to continue in the postpandemic era. According to the International Monetary Funds October edition of Autumn World Economic Outlook report in , the projected growth rate of the world economy in  will be minus . percent, with the US economy expected to shrink by . percent and the Chinese economy predicted to grow by . percent. Converted to US dollars by market exchange rate, Chinas GDP was about  percent that of the United States in , and reached  percent or more in . In , Chinas catchup or convergence rate with the United States is more than  percent, which is significantly higher than the average rate from  to . Although the spread of the novel coronavirus was on a large scale in China and severely impacted its economic operations at the beginning of the year, thanks to the countrys strong social mobilization capabilities and high execution abilities, the virus was largely brought under control relatively quickly, which created favorable conditions for the recovery of economy and the restoring of social order. In contrast, the US and other developed countries have not been able in bringing pandemics in control quickly and effectively as expected and their economic performances have been obviously affected. This is obviously the most important cause of the widening gap in economic growth between China and the US this year. Judging from Chinas economic performance in the first three quarters in , the effectiveness of its prevention and control measures not only laid the foundation for the earlier normalization of its economic and social order, but also for the recovery of its exports, foreign trade and overall growth. After the World Health Organization announced a pandemic in last March, many thought that the great influence of the pandemic on demand would greatly drag down Chinas exports and so hinder its economic recovery. In fact, although global demand has indeed shrunk sharply, due to the early recovery of Chinas economy to normal supply capacity, part of the demand in the international market has been transferred to China. Total exports grew by . percent in the first three quarters in . The exports of notebook computers and home appliances increased by . percent and . percent respectively and the exports of textiles, including protective face masks, increased . percent. Another factor for the positive performance of Chinas economy is related to the characteristics of Chinas stage of economic development and the sensitive response of its macroeconomy to the proactive macroeconomic policies. In response to the impact of the epidemic at the beginning of the year, the central and local governments quickly introduced various recovery and stimulus policies. With the adjusted policy measures, different sectors of the macroeconomy soon responded. For example, in the first three quarters in , the added value of industrial enterprises above designated size increased by . percent yearonyear. Fixed asset investment increased by . percent yearonyear, of which infrastructure investment increased by . percent. Although the real estate sector faces various incremental regulations, the investment in this sector still achieved a relatively high growth rate of . percent, which played an important role in supporting the recovery of overall investment growth. According to the projections of the mainstream international institutions, economies worldwide will generally recover to varying degrees in , and the observed phenomenon of speeding up catchup amid the global recession will no longer repeat as it has in . However, based on the analysis of the mediumand longterm growth prospects and the driving factors of the Chinese, US and global economies, it is possible that Chinas economic catchingup may continue in the future. For example, the IMF predicts that in  the economic growth rate for China will be . percent and the US growth rate will be . percent, with the nominal GDP of the US and Chinas US dollar GDP growing by . percent and . percent respectively. Under the new internal and external circumstances, complex influences will be derived from Chinas economic catchup. Maintaining relatively rapid economic growth is necessary to achieve the goals of Chinas th FiveYear Plan  and the longrange development objectives through till . It will also resolve phased external environmental pressures. With the pandemic spurring innovation and fostering a broader concept of environmental protection and sustainable development, the world is also exploring and creating new development models that include effective prevention and response to new zoonotic diseases and new infectious diseases. This is helpful to promote global cooperation and alleviate international conflicts. However, compared with the Chinas experience of rapid catchingup in the context of global economic prosperity at the beginning of the new century, the speeding up of the economy will face new challenges in the future. There is an increase in internal economic difficulties and the intensification of social contradictions in many countries, such as in the US and some European countries. Chinas accelerated catchingup and the increase in competitiveness in midtohighend manufacturing and hightech and emerging industries will introduce more uncertainty as the developed countries adjust their policies in response. China will need to deal with this firmly and calmly. CAI MENGCHINA DAILY The author is a professor with the National School of Development at Peking University.