Beijing  speed skating test event sails into second day
2021/10/9 19:53
Yang Binyu front of China competes during the Experience Beijing Speed Skating China Open Womens m in Beijing, on Oct , .  BEIJING  China Open speed skating event, the first international competition of the Beijing  test series, went into its secondday competition on Saturday as all elements of the competition were tested. Pandemic prevention was one of the focuses of this competition at the National Speed Skating Oval, known as the Ice Ribbon, which sees athletes from China, the Netherlands and South Korea compete in in  events including mens and womens m, ,m, ,m, team pursuit and mass start as well as womens ,m and mens ,m from Oct.  to . Athletes were asked to put on the medals themselves as one COVID prevention measures among others. I prefer other people to put the medal around my neck, said mens ,m winner Jeong Seonkyo of South Korea jokingly when asked to compare two different awarding methods. Youth Olympic champion Isabel Grevelt of the Netherlands took the womens ,m victory. As an estimate of , overseas athletes, team officials, technical officials and timing and scoring personnel are expected for the test series from October  to December  in the three competition zones of Beijing, Yanqing and Zhangjiakou. They will be under closedloop management upon arriving in China with casebycase policies for different venues, according to the organizers. At the Ice Ribbon, all competitionrelated people, including the athletes, volunteers and the media members, are asked to wear medical N facial masks and the media need to provide negative nucleic acid result within  hours upon entering the stadium. Athletes will take virtual interviews inside the loop. We have divided the entire stadium into two parts, inside the closedloop and outside the loop, said Wu Xiaonan, chairman of the National Speed Skating Oval. The competition will conclude on Sunday with mens and womens ,m and mass start. The Experience Beijing Speed Skating China Open Womens m in Beijing, on Oct , .  Workers prepare the timing devices during the China Open speed skating event, the first international competition of the Beijing  test series on Oct , .  The award ceremony of the China Open speed skating event, the first international competition of the Beijing  test series on Oct , .  Media workers check the competition schedule of the China Open speed skating event, the first international competition of the Beijing  test series on Oct , .  China Open speed skating event, the first international competition of the Beijing  test series, goes into its secondday competition on Saturday as all elements of the competition are tested. 