SE Asia follows China trend to buy online
2021/1/1 0:00
To Kathie Ting Zhi Ying, , a health science student at UCSI University in Kuala Lumpur, online grocery services have been a lifeline during Malaysias movement control order MOC. In an effort to contain the COVID outbreak, Malaysia has implemented different phases of MOC since March . Various restrictions were introduced, including the closure of schools and nonessential businesses. Residents were also asked to stay at home. When the pandemic started and we couldnt go home, the university said it is better that we dont go out and stay in the school, said Ting. After being recommended different online grocery platforms by the university and her friends, Ting, a new user, placed her first order. The online grocery is quite convenient, said Ting. Even though ordering online means she cannot see the quality of the goods until they arrive, the fast and convenient delivery satisfies her. The pandemic has accelerated the growth of Southeast Asias internet economy, which is on track to exceed  billion in . More than one in three digital services consumers started using the services because of COVID. Groceries, together with education and lending, have seen the biggest jumps, according to a report released in November by Bain and Company. It was produced in collaboration with Google and Temasek, Singapores sovereign fund. The rising demand has triggered a service expansion of many market players in the region. Ridehailing company Grab launched an ondemand daily necessities delivery service, GrabMart, to support people during the pandemic. In June, the company said the service expanded from two to eight countries in Southeast Asia over just three months. On Dec , it also introduced GrabSupermarket, its first deliveryonly supermarket in the region. When Singapore raised its Disease Outbreak Response System Condition to the secondhighest level on Friday, Feb , regional ecommerce platform Lazadas grocery arm RedMart saw a threefold rise in the average number of weekly orders by that weekend. As for Indonesia, management consultancy RedSeer said it expects the archipelagos egrocery market to grow five to six times in . Guillem Segarra, CEO of online grocery platform HappyFresh, said the growth rate his company has experienced is unprecedented. Between March and May, the company saw a huge increase in traffic and inflow of new customers. We saw a traffic increase of five to  times compared with the same time a year ago, he said. Based in Indonesia, HappyFresh also operates in Malaysia and Thailand. During the first half of , the company reported a net profit in Indonesia, its largest market. Segarra told China Daily he did not expect the breakeven to take place so soon. His previous forecast was to become profitable by the end of . Segarra said the surging demand was driven not only by new customers, but by repeat users. The retention rates on HappyFresh today are the highest that weve ever seen, he said. He noted that the platforms sales reached an alltime high in November though the COVID situation has eased in many countries. Consumers have shifted from panic buying to something resembling normal weekly shopping, said Segarra. Many people have formed a habit of buying groceries from online platforms during the lockdowns, he noted. The company is also going to launch a loyalty program in January to retain customers. In Malaysia, homegrown company MyGroser said the pandemic has forced it to grow and expand a lot faster than expected. In a matter of hours, the demand for grocery delivery locally grew by over , percent, said the companys founder and CEO Stephen Francis. We had only launched earlier this year  and were still learning when the overwhelming demand came in during the first few months of the pandemic, Francis told China Daily. While we initially couldnt handle all the incoming orders, we took up the challenge and worked to grow our capacity fold during that period, said Francis. He said the company also expanded its delivery fleet and enhanced handling standards to ensure products security. Apart from online grocery service providers, Richard Skinner, retail and consumer leader of auditing and consultancy firm PwC Singapore, said there was a lot of partnership between delivery operators and grocery providers to satisfy the sudden peak in demand that the supermarkets were unable to serve immediately during the initial stages of the COVID outbreak. In Singapore, we see more players investing into this space, Skinner told China Daily. For traditional grocery providers, Skinner said while they have control over inventory and sourcing, they need to deal with high expenditure from warehouses. On the flip side, the pros of being an enabler include the ability to leverage synergies with existing business to lower additional cost. But cons could include a lack of control over the quality of inventory sourced and potential stockouts, said Skinner. Seeing continued growth in Southeast Asias online grocery sector, Skinner said there will be challenges. Deliveryin particular lastmile logisticsis actually quite expensive and consumers dont always want to pay for that, said Skinner. In addition, many large market players also have legacy costs in the form of bricksandmortar stores. Francis from MyGroser said that as lockdowns limited movement, delivering fresh produce to consumers became more challenging. In addition, the pandemic has resulted in severe shortages on imported products as it has disrupted the global supply chain, said Francis. Segarra from HappyFresh said the online grocery business is a difficult one to build, adding that not all players in the market have the capability to ensure fresh and quality grocery delivery. Segarra said the surging demand has allowed the company to scale up much faster. In terms of expansion, he sees attractive market prospects in regional markets like the Philippines and Vietnam. Tipping point Segarra said many ecommerce trends, including online grocery, in Southeast Asia resemble those that have been seen in China to an extent. The egrocery penetration rate in China  years ago was probably below  percent. Before COVID, it was  percent and probably now it has accelerated up to  percent, said Segarra. Egrocery in Southeast Asia is definitely in its tipping point that was what China saw almost back in . As China emerges from lockdown restrictions,  percent of Chinese consumers are buying food and groceries online more frequently than before, according to data and analytics company GlobalData. Admitting it will be difficult for HappyFresh to enter the Chinese market, Segarra said there will be a lot to learn from its Chinese peers.I think when looking at China, it is almost like looking at the future and seeing how this going to develop. We can learn a lot from that. Demand for grocery delivery will continue because people now see how convenient it is but perhaps with a slower rate of growth, said Skinner from PwC. With more players joining the bandwagon, Francis from MyGroser said this will help educate consumers in the region and help keep things competitive. In time, consumers will decide for themselves which services are best suited to their needs, said Francis. I do not think that the pandemic has changed the future of online groceries, said Segarra from HappyFresh. What the pandemic has done is that it has definitely accelerated the massive adoption of digital services, especially in the grocery space. The numbers are telling us that this change in adoption and customer behavior is here to stay. To Malaysian university student Ting, this is undoubtedly true. Having enjoyed the convenience of online groceries, she said she will continue to use the services after the pandemic. Ive already got used to having these groceries delivered to my door, so I dont really feel like going out very far to buy groceries, said Ting.It is really convenient that if you are busy or if you dont want to get stuck in traffic or go out. Contact the writer at kellychinadailyapac.com Shoppers wearing protective masks walk past Christmas decorations outside a mall amid the COVID outbreak in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia.?LIM HUEY TENGREUTERS ? ?