POWERCHINA takes leadership role during the COVID pandemic
2020/12/30 15:07
In the face of the unexpected COVID pandemic at the beginning of , POWERCHINA actively demonstrated the social responsibility expected of a Stateowned enterprise. It is one of the worlds largest and most internationalized power construction companies and serves as an important role model for Chinese companies looking to go global. On Oct , , POWERCHINA was awarded the title of Advanced Group of Central Enterprises in Fighting against the Epidemic at a commendation meeting held by the Stateowned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission SASAC of the State Council. POWERCHINA is awarded the title of Advanced Group of Central Enterprises in Fighting against the Epidemic by SASAC on Oct , .  Starting Jan , , POWERCHINA began to issue early warning notices and disease prevention knowledge to various foreign agencies. The company also made careful and detailed arrangements for the organization and leadership of overseas pandemic prevention and control. POWERCHINA relied on its global market network advantages to urgently purchased diseasecontrol medical materials and rushed to help Hubei province to fight the disease outbreak in early February. In the Americas, as the pandemic in Latin America and the Caribbean continued to spread, POWERCHINA contacted local hospitals able to diagnose and treat pneumonia and purchased a threemonth supply of antiCOVID materials in advance. POWERCHINAs returning employees pose for a photo.  Meanwhile, POWERCHINAs overseas projects have made smooth progress. On May , POWERCHINA signed a contract for Pakistans largest water conservancy project  the DiamoBasha Dam project. The deals signing kicked off the establishment of a landmark project for friendly cooperation and mutual benefits between China and Pakistan. On Aug , the company won the bid for the New Niefang Hospital project in Equatorial Guinea, which is the first medical assistance project to be conducted by China in Equatorial Guinea. On Nov , the Kafue Gorge Lower Hydro Power Project in Zambia completed the water storage phase, paving the way for the first unit to generate power. Starting in June, POWERCHINA began to character flights to help employees to return to overseas projects. The total number of POWERCHINA employees whove returned to work and production at overseas projects has exceeded ,. Meanwhile, the total contract value of overseas projects that have resumed work accounts for more than  percent of the total contract value of projects under construction. POWERCHINA has also actively donated pandemic prevention and control supplies abroad, including masks, protective clothing, temperature guns, disposable gloves, disinfectants and goggles. POWERCHINA donates pandemic prevention and control materials.  Moving forwards, POWERCHINA will continue to promote the construction of its projects while doing a good job in pandemic prevention and control.