Farmers worry as locusts return to East Africa
2020/12/30 9:04
Employees of a chemical company work at a production facility in Haian, Jiangsu province, in August. Photo by ZHAI HUIYONGFOR CHINA DAILY Chemical companies in China believe they have been able to ride out the economic impact of COVID so far, and are beginning to explore fresh growth opportunities the pandemic situation has created, industry experts said. Among their new focus areas are intelligent manufacture of chemicals, industry digitalization, research and development, low carbon emission technologies, and new materials that can replace plastics, they said. During the initial phase of the pandemic, chemical firms struggled to resume production and maintain their supply chain activities. Thanks to quick and effective containment of the spread of the novel coronavirus, and availability of adequate personal protective equipment, the industry recovered sooner than expected. As the New Year  beckons, chemical enterprises find themselves well placed to deal with COVIDrelated threats, and are realizing that new growth opportunities go hand in hand with challenges, said senior executives during an industry event. The event is the closing ceremony of Open To Public or OTP Day , which was organized by the Association of International Chemical Manufacturers in Shanghai recently. The AICM represents more than  major foreign investments in Chinas chemical industry. Its members businesses span RD, manufacture, transportation, distribution and disposal of chemicals. From the business perspective, COVID brings more opportunities than impacts for the chemical industry. For example, personal protection products like masks, disinfectants and pharmaceuticals are all made with various chemicals, said Jeff Zhu, chairman of AICM and senior vicepresident of Cabot Corp, a chemical company. Since the second half of this year, demand across the industry chain has been sufficient, and the pandemics impact has been limited to the period from February to May. In my view, there will be sustainable demand for more chemical materials as well as higher standard chemical products in the long run, Zhu said. Even after the pandemic gets completely contained, strong development of the whole chemical industry chain will continue, he said. Zhus view finds an echo among senior executives of major chemical multinationals in China. The companies will tap into Chinas consumption upgrade and dualcirculation development pattern, they said. As we adapt to the postCOVID new normal, the world needs more innovation from chemical companies, not only in product innovation but in service innovation and communication innovation, said Yoke Loon Lim, director of AICM and president of Dows China unit. The unprecedented challenges of the pandemic period have sensitized both industry insiders and the general public to the critical role of chemicals in everyday life. Chemicals are everywhere, supporting peoples health and wellness in a variety of ways and forms. Hence, we industry people are always inspired to unceasingly explore more innovations, Lim said. Since the outbreak of COVID, we quickly decided to significantly reduce the number of onsite employees and shift local control to remote control at our Shanghai center, said Li Zhenmin, head of multinational industrial gases and engineering company Linde in China and an adviser to AICM. Li said most of Lindes plants across China can be controlled and operated in Shanghai with digital solutions, and Linde is constantly developing intelligent methodologies and vigorously exploring ecommerce to attract customers. As a traditional BBbusinesstobusiness enterprise, weve deployed a lot of resources to online marketing so far this year, Li said. China has the worlds most cuttingedge and advanced chemical industry chain, boasting more than  percent of the worlds chemical output. Every chemical company in China should make a longterm plan based on its positioning, strengthen the RD abilities and focus on core businesses, Zhu said. Toward that goal, Linde has thousands of patented technologies to help its clients cut greenhouse emissions, and efforts in this direction are continuing, Li said. For its part, Cabot Corp will pay particular attention to RD of new energy applications, or photovoltaic, solar energy, and lithiumion batteries. In China as well as the rest of the world, the plastics industry is now subject to higher production and environmental standards, in order to reduce sales and daily use of its products. Chemical companies are developing scientific, harmless solutions for treatment of plastic products. This is a challenge as well as an opportunity for the future, said Sun Lihong, president for Solvay in China and an adviser to AICM. There is a certain chemistry between the chemical industry and human society that underlines sustained efforts for building a greener, healthier and better future for everyone, said Fernando Vallina, chairman of ExxonMobil China Investment Co Ltd and an AICM director.