Looking back at , looking forward to   Memories of a troubled year, hopes for a new dawn
2020/12/29 12:08
Beijings hutong near Qianhai, ?Photo by Bruce Connollychinadaily.com.cn A new year is approaching. How will we look back on  as it slips away? Will it be a memory or one that is best forgotten as an opportunity to start anew presents itself? Indeed, will  actually start with many of the previous years scars still around to continue causing farther disruption? Lets hope not. A year ago, there were many dreams and ambitious ideas waiting to be fulfilled over the coming months. There were travel plans to return to areas of China last visited many years previously. I particularly wanted to rediscover Guangzhou for that city was so important at the very start of my China story. The aspiration to photograph more of Guizhou ran strong in my mind. A visit two years previously had really wetted my appetite to record through the lens more of its stunning beauty. However, it was not to be for all plans were suddenly, unexpectedly unachievable. Indeed the events of  showed that how our dreams, no matter how wellconceived and thought out, can suddenly be put into reverse, canceled or put on hold for many months or longer. Haihe River Tianjin, November ?Photo by Bruce Connollychinadaily.com.cn After a pleasant few weeks in Beijing immediately after the  New Year, I headed down to Tianjin, happy to return to a city that I had become increasingly familiar with. Yet, in the back of my mind, there was another city on the Yangtze, in Central China, Wuhan, I would periodically be reminded of. There had been reports of a new variant, a possibly mutated COVIDSARS virus. I would recall the problems and uncertainties during an outbreak of SARS that affected China in the spring of . However, settling back into the Tianjin scene I felt relaxed, never for a moment foreseeing what would come next and the tragic implications a sudden viral surge can cause. As I watched the fishermen along the Haihe River, I found it all so tranquil. Then, suddenly everything happened so fast as our plans and ambitions turned upside down! Mask wearing became part of everyday behaviour, September ?Photo by Bruce Connollychinadaily.com.cn Looking back, there had been a slow initial response at suppressing the initial outbreak in Wuhan. Consequently cases started rising rapidly in that city, not helped by people, failing to understanding or appreciate the need for social distancing, rushing to local hospitals that were then illequipped to deal with the scenario. The virus there started spreading as the Spring Festival holiday approaching. By the end of January, control of, indeed suppression had become a national issue. Actions that followed were fast, appearing in quick succession. Indeed such moves would ultimately prevent a nationwide, outofcontrol, spread of COVID, consequently saving countless lives. Such a response allowed by midMarch a semblance of normality to start returning across China, except for Wuhan and surrounding parts of Hubei. They would open up later. The lesson learned was, whenever there was an outbreak, an immediate response is essential to crush the reproduction and spread of such a virus. This subsequently proved effective when viral flareups happened, for example in Beijing, Qingdao, parts of northeastern China and so on. Similarly, the rollout of health QR codes via smartphone technology, application of big data in tracing carriers, mass testing and targeted lockdowns have all been significant developments for China during . Indeed with a recent localized outbreak in Beijing, I dont feel the paranoia or worry of the unknown that was there back in late January this year. Other factors that I will always remember have been the overall resilience and compliance of the people, helping ensure China has a very low fatality rate. Lives were saved. This year indeed has become a learning experience in epidemic handling. Hopefully as we start into , the threat of COVID will hopefully significantly recede allowing an opening up for international travel, tourism and trade. Of course the year now passing will always have a complex mixture of feelings for many people, ranging from joy to deep personal sadness. Then there are the economic effects. It was indeed quite disturbing to be walking along empty streets with shops and restaurants closed. However, the prompt response in China did see the start to a new normality by March when many businesses, I was familiar with, reopening with customer numbers often approaching preepidemic levels. Unfortunately, some favorites have ceased trading. While travel plans remained a dream, there were opportunities to look back over years of journeying through many parts of China, photographing the countrys human diversity and physical beauty. Periods of isolating indoors provided the chance at last to archive what has become a very extensive collection of images going back over  years. It was a time to reflect on experiences gained both traveling extensively by railway while also effectively be in the country during periods of considerable economic and social change. A chance also to write about some of those moments while also describing the many images I had acquired of life during , of periods where cities were going through and coming out of the different COVID scenarios. The quietness of January  in Tianjin.?Photo by Bruce Connollychinadaily.com.cn Initially I was reluctant and indeed nervous about traveling again. However I wanted to go back to Tianjin, by train. I desired to return to a passion of photographing more of that really fascinating city and its very story. Taking metro line  to Beijing South Station, wearing a mask throughout the entire journey proved reassuring. Indeed everything felt under control, a smooth transit and well organized. Using public transport again was a confidencebuilding exercise that eased any anxieties of using such facilities. Heading again on the railways proved a stimulus to write a feature for China Daily on my memories watching the development of Chinas highspeed train service. A chance to recall the journey to Tianjin in August  on one of the first services traveling at over  kilometers per hour south from Beijing lasting incredibly only  minutes. Despite ongoing threats of COVID reappearing in parts of the country, highspeed rail has continued to expand, opening the prospect for some future adventures. This month, Beijing West was connected to Xiongan while newly opened rail services were improving connectivity in areas such as Shanxi, Ningxia and northwestern China. Ambitions for , hopefully! Filming with CRI Hilton Beijing Hotel December  Photo by Bruce Connollychinadaily.com.cn I mentioned in a recent article about starting to rediscover Beijing again, partly promoted by physically being in Beijing and realizing there is so much so close to where I live. An opportunity to share moments of my experiences was an invitation to cooperate in a video production, this month, in December, with CRI China Radio International. Focusing on photography of Beijing over the past  years, it proved a fulfilling chance to relive many aspects of the city. From walking slowly around historic hutong alleys or staring upwards at a skyline now rising to  meters in height, there was just so much to talk about. Deshengmen Gate Beijing, December  Photo by Bruce Connollychinadaily.com.cn Only a few days ago, I was strolling alone around Xihai, the west lake of the Shichahai area. Lying southwest of the massive Ming Dynasty Deshengmen Gate, this had been one of my earliest areas to explore. Looking at that gate, I thought back to December  first photographing its magnificence. Then, traffic around its base was relatively light, while buses were dieselpowered and I could remember them passing me, the smell of their exhaust fumes. At that time, winter skies over Beijing were often an orangey yellow shade, a reflection of the considerable amounts of coal used for electricity generation, central heating and of course for use in the many little stoves utilized for cooking in the homes and restaurants crammed into a maze of hutong alleys just south of where I was standing. Twentyfive years later, standing at that same spot, the sky above was blue, buses were electric, and coal stoves no longer were a feature of hutong life. The futuristic skyline of Beijings CBD  during CRI filming, December ?Photo by Bruce Connollychinadaily.com.cn Increasingly I have noticed what we now call Beijing Blue, the sky today often presenting an amazing sharpness of visibility, atmospheric clarity the norm. Beijing has shaken off earlier shackles of being associated with poor air quality. I have personally witnessed and photographed the changes which people now often comment on. Indeed, as I walked around the city recently I have noticed the considerable environmental work underway to improve quality of life. It does feel today that the construction and redevelopment frenzy witnessed in the mids and later has faded away. The citys skyline is no longer a forest of tall cranes. Street scene at Deshengmen Gate Beijing December ?Photo by Bruce Connollychinadaily.com.cn My environmental observations continued as I reached the Xihai lake. Going back to the Yuan Dynasty, this was a crucial junction point between waterways ultimately connecting with the Grand Canal and the manmade lake system leading down to the Forbidden City. Then the waters were crammed full of small wooden sailing vessels bringing their cargoes from east central China. When I first came upon that lake it had become a quiet treelined backwater, neglected. Gone were the days when it was at the center of Beijings commerce. What a change today, as another example of the citys push for a much better environment. A wooden lakeside boardwalk allows for a trafficfree experience, walking or leisurely sitting at one of the new wooden pavilions. The lake itself has partly become a wetland, a habitat for ducks and migratory birds. Also, the waters are clear, something I have noticed now throughout all of the Shichahai lakes. In my earlier days, it was impossible to see the lake bed. What a change! Diesel buses were common in Beijing in ?Photo by Bruce Connollychinadaily.com.cn I sat for a while by the Xihai, thinking back to  or earlier. I also reflected on the difficulties, the unexpected traumas that  brought for us, starting  months ago. Then, there was considerable uncertainty and anxiety. However, looking back, so much has been learned in tackling any outbreaks of the virus, of the very rapid and effective response we now see across China. There is also the increasing possibility of mass vaccination. Hopefully  will not be dogged down but will be a restart for all and a return to global normality. For me,  has been another learning experience, and another chapter in my personal China story. My travel ambitions remain strong but in the meantime the New Year will start with continuing to rediscover Beijing and to photograph the many incredible changes I am coming across in this city. Photography under a blue sky is the norm today and hopefully that will help bring in a new dawn for .