Shanghai exhibition features contemporary spin on time and space
2021/10/7 16:32
A portrait of Vincent van Gogh by Zeng Fanzhi Photo by Xing Yichinadaily.com.cn The art exhibition Time and Space, which gathers  paintings and installations by  renowned artists from home and abroad, will open to the public in Shanghais Yangyun International Community from Oct  to Dec . Among the exhibits is one portrait of Vincent van Gogh by Zeng Fanzhi, whose work is a tribute to the legendary Dutch artists own selfportrait and was exhibited in the Van Gogh Museum in Amsterdam in . Your Lost Time Gradient, art installation by Danish artist Olafur Eliasson Photo by Xing Yichinadaily.com.cn Zeng, , is one of Chinas leading contemporary artists. His Mask Series  No. sold for  million yuan . million last year, the highest auction price among Chinese contemporary art. Your Lost Time Gradient by Danish artist Olafur Eliasson is an art installation of two concentric circles made of crystal balls galvanized with different shapes of silver, symbolizing moon phases and the eternal elapsing of time. Art exhibition Time and Space will be open from Oct  to Dec  in Shanghai. Photo by Xing Yichinadaily.com.cn Shanghaibased artist Ding Yi is known for his geometric abstract art. He was the first Chinese artist to work with French luxury brand Hermes to print scarves featuring his original design. At this exhibition is Early Spring in Jiangnan, a square canvas on which small yellow, green and brown crosses are built up with vertical, horizontal, and diagonal lines, forming an intricate pattern with different layers when observed at different distances. Early Spring in Jiangnan is an art work brought by Shanghaibased artist Ding Yi featuring a square canvas board on which small yellow, green and brown crosses built up by vertical, horizontal, and diagonal lines. Photo by Xing Yichinadaily.com.cn Jiang Ning, founder of L.S. Art and curator of the exhibition, said time and space are just numeric measurements without meaning and significance. Through the creation of artists, the intangible and the void has been captured and become eternal, he said. I hope the exhibition adds some poetic memories to life.