China stronger after COVID challenge
2020/12/29 9:34
Workers inspect a new car at the production line of Dongfeng Passenger Vehicle Co in Wuhan, Hubei province.  Stringent public health measures and supportive monetary, fiscal policies boost commercial activity BEIJINGChinas economy, the first in the world jolted by the COVID pandemic, is bouncing back from the contagion after effective virus controls and targeted stimuli while the disease continues to threaten the rest of the world. With GDP growth reaching . percent and . percent in the second and third quarters, the worlds secondlargest economy completed the upward leg of a Vshaped recovery from virusinduced lockdowns that sent it into a rare .percent contraction in the first quarter. In its latest Economic Outlook report, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development predicted that China will be the only major economy to record positive performance in  with .percent growth. By the end of , the global gross domestic product is projected to reach prepandemic levels, with China expected to account for over a third of world economic expansion, according to the report released on Dec . Chinas exports jumped . percent yearonyear in November in US dollar terms, the fastest growth since February , thanks to strong demand for medical goods and electronics. The brisk recovery has not been easy to come by. Refraining from hastily resorting to massive stimulus measures, China adopted a clear and consistent approach containing the virus first with stringent public health measures and then rolling out monetary and fiscal policies to revive economic activity. Chinas postCOVID rebound is gathering momentum amid a developed world that remains on shaky ground, Stephen Roach, a senior fellow at Yale University, said in an article published by Singaporebased Channel NewsAsia. Roach attributed Chinas quick economic recovery to the deployment of a COVIDfirst strategy where the country insulates its citizens from a virulent pathogenic contagion with public health measures first and then makes judicious use of monetary and fiscal policy to reinforce the postlockdown snapback. This is in sharp contrast with some developed countries where debates focused on using monetary and fiscal policies as frontline countermeasures, rather than taking public health measures to contain the virus in the first place, he said. Indeed, China set virus containment as a top policy priority at the beginning of the outbreak, concentrating medical resources and exercising strong contagion controls despite massive economic costs. Factories were shut down, schools were closed and many contactbased services such as entertainment and travel were either fully stopped or shifted online to contain the spread of the disease. Masking, temperature monitoring and health QR code scanning have become new norms in the COVID era in China. When it comes to reopening the economy, China took a targeted and flexible approach. Differentiated policies were adopted for economic and social order restoration in different regions, with areas with lowrisk of COVID encouraged to first return to normalcy. A ship loads cargo at Jingtang Ports container terminal in Tangshan, Hebei province.  The countrys fast recovery rests partly with the macroeconomic policy mix of raising the deficit, tax relief as well as cuts in lending rates and banks reserve requirements. Unlike its European and US counterparts, China stayed away from using a deluge of stimulus policies but implemented more targeted countercyclical adjustments, said Xu Hongcai, deputy director of the Economic Policy Commission of the China Association of Policy Science. Compared with the  trillion yuan  billion stimulus package China adopted to cope with the  global financial crisis, this years measures were gentle, said Zhang Yansheng, chief researcher of the China Center for International Economic Exchanges. To maintain stable liquidity while avoiding money flooding the market, Chinas central bank placed more focus on enabling structural policy tools, including relending and rediscount programs. Chinas financial institutions saved enterprises . trillion yuan during the first  months, and are expected to save  billion yuan more in November and December. Stabilizing employment has been a macroeconomic policy priority throughout the year as it closely relates to peoples wellbeing and social stability. Due to relentless job creation efforts, the countrys unemployment rate stood at . percent in October, the lowest of the year. Over  million new urban jobs were created during the first  months, meeting Chinas annual target ahead of schedule, said the Ministry of Human Resources and Social Security. For small and mediumsized businessesthe main drivers of job creationdebt and uncertainties remain major challenges. Xu said he expects macroeconomic policies to continue to focus on protecting market entities and boosting employment next year, which is crucial to stabilizing households income expectations and increasing a willingness to consume. Extraordinary measures should be phased out in  instead of an abrupt exit, Xu said. In its thirdquarter monetary policy report, Chinas central bank pledged to make its prudent monetary policy more targeted and flexible to better adapt to the needs of highquality development and put more focus on the efficiency of financial services to support the real economy. Morgan Stanley predicted that policymakers will likely normalize credit growth and its fiscal stance next year with a full recovery in the labor market and deployment of COVID vaccines, according to its November report. Noting that  will be an especially important year for China in advancing modernization, a meeting of the Political Bureau of the Communist Party of China Central Committee on Dec  called for sound and precise implementation of macro policies, keeping the economy running within a reasonable range and adhering to the strategy of expanding domestic demand next year. Reforms on both supply and demand sides should be carried out to achieve a dynamic equilibrium on a higher level, in which supply and demand can boost each other, the meeting said. Chinas overall economic efficiency has improved in recent years due to supplyside structural reforms. As the country will deepen reforms on both supply and demand sides in the years to come, the economy will see greater growth potential, Zhang said.