NYC street vending proliferates in pandemic, as does conflict
2020/12/29 1:38
The rd St in Manhattan, New York City.  With many of New York Citys streets depleted of tourists and office workers due to the COVID pandemic, the ranks of street vendors  many unlicensed have risen, leading to conflict with beleaguered established businesses. The situation also has become increasingly political, with both groups having vocal backing. And starting on Jan , the New York Police Department will no longer oversee enforcement of street vendor regulations. That responsibility will shift to the citys Department of Consumer and Worker Protection DCWP. Our officers must be able to focus on the real drivers of crime, Mayor Bill de Blasio said. Having Department of Consumer and Worker Protection coordinating the citys vending policy and enforcement efforts strikes the right balance as we rethink how law enforcement resources are used in our city. DCWP has a strong record of protecting New Yorkers, and Im confident theyre up to the task. On two streets in areas with large numbers of Chinese immigrants Main Street in Flushing, Queens, and Fifth Avenue in Sunset Park, Brooklyn  vendors jostle for space. A street vendor wearing a protective face mask blows bubbles out of a toy, as the global outbreak of the coronavirus disease COVID continues, across the street from the CityMD Jamaica Urgent Care in the Queens borough of New York, US, Nov , .  Main Street was jammed recently with vendors selling crabs, fruit, cheap jade trinkets and Chinese antiques. DianSong Yu of the Flushing Business Improvement District told the New York Post that he estimates  percent of the vendors arent licensed. Its a very tough time for everybody we get it, Yu told The Post. But we need to be fair to the local merchants who are paying very high rent and taxes. And theyre hurting. The Street Vendor Project, based in Manhattan, advocates for the sidewalk sellers. There are more than , street vendors in New York City  hot dog vendors, flower vendors, book vendors, street artists, and many others. They are small businesspeople struggling to make ends meet. Most are immigrants and people of color, the groups website says. They work long hours under harsh conditions, asking for nothing more than a chance to sell their goods on the public sidewalk. Many streets have been closed to them at the urging of powerful business groups. They receive , tickets for minor violations like vending too close to a crosswalk. From January through Dec , complaints about street vendors in the citys five boroughs totaled more than ,, despite the city being in lockdown for  of those days, the Post reported. In the first nine months of , the NYPD issued  tickets to unlicensed vendors compared with  in all of . A City Council measure proposed in  would gradually double the approximately , streetvending permits. A permit cap has been in effect since . Street vendors are our neighborhood fruit and produce carts, halal stands, and breakfast trucks, City Council Member Margaret Chin, one of the prime sponsors of the bill to increase the licenses, said in a statement earlier this year. Every day, they withstand the rain, snow, and sweltering heat to feed our communities. City Council Speaker Corey Johnson told politico.com that he supports the bill and expected it to come up for a vote next year. On Dec , investment bank Morgan Stanley and antipoverty organization Robin Hood announced a commitment to provide financial assistance to , street vendors across the city, in partnership with The Street Vendor Project. The funding will provide at least , to each vendor. Morgan Stanley has made a  million commitment, and Robin Hood is donating , and will be assisting with grant management and cash distribution. James Gorman, chairman and CEO of Morgan Stanley, said New York City street vendors are a central part of the cultural fabric of New York City. With our headquarters in Times Square, many of our employees rely on these vendors for their morning coffee or a quick lunch. Morgan Stanley is committed to supporting those in our community that support us on a daily basis as they face unprecedented economic hardship. But as the pandemic persists, discord between storefront operators and the vendors likely will continue. The expansion of restaurants and other businesses onto sidewalks, such as heated, covered spaces to facilitate outdoor dining amid the pandemic, also has heightened the potential for standoffs between the two sides. I dont think right now is the best time for the license expansion, Jeffrey Garca, president of the New York State Latino Restaurant Bar and Lounge Association, told ny.com. We need to help our brickandmortar places come back from this pandemic. Its an absolutely dire situation, and we need to ensure were not creating an environment thats going to pose more challenges towards brickandmortar restaurants, Andrew Rigie, executive director of the New York City Hospitality Alliance, told politico.com. They cant get up and move across the street or move to a different neighborhood like vendors can  theyre stuck where they are in longterm, expensive leases. Jessica Walker, president of the Manhattan Chamber of Commerce, told politico that the City Council should not rush a bill that was introduced two years before the pandemic. She said there has been an explosion in the number of street vendors since the start of the coronavirus outbreak. From a smallbusiness point of view, there were always concerns about an unlevel playing field, Walker said. There are street vendors who are selling fruit and produce right outside of a grocery store. It seems like theres this unfairness inherent to whats happening right now. City Councilman Peter Koo introduced a bill passed two years ago that banned all vending, including food carts, on Main Street in Flushing. Its a circus, he told the Post, of the current situation. This falls squarely on the mayor. We remain committed to a diverse commercial ecosystem, where small businesses of all kinds coexist and contribute to a vibrant street life, mayoral spokeswoman Laura Feyer told the Post.