COVID fears loom as Kenyans disregard precautions for Christmas
2020/12/28 22:10
? A street photographer dressed as Santa Claus calls for clients at the Uhuru Park grounds for Christmas Day celebrations amid the coronavirus disease COVID outbreak in Nairobi, Kenya Dec , .  Contrary to warnings by the Ministry of Health and the Africa Centers for Disease Control and Prevention that people should observe health protocols during the Christmas and New Years festivities, crowds were observed in public places in Kenya on Christmas as people celebrated without observing social distancing or wearing masks. In the port city of Mombasa, the second most affected city in the country by the coronavirus pandemic after capital Nairobi, people thronged public beaches and celebrated as though there was no pandemic. Hundreds gathered at Mama Ngina Waterfront, Jomo Kenyatta and Nyali beaches along with children, forming the largest gatherings since the outbreak in the country began. The merrymakers mingled freely with their friends and families as they took pictures to capture the moment. Many also had an opportunity to use the newly built Likoni floating bridge, which was open to the public for few hours. In Nairobi, many people gathered in public places and shopping malls to mark the holiday. In rural areas, urban dwellers who managed to travel mingled freely with family members and held parties without observing social distancing or wearing masks. There is no way I could avoid shaking the hands of my children whom I saw a year ago. I however, hope that none of them had the virus, said Jackson Kiatu, a resident of Kenyas Kitui County. Disregard of ministry protocols has raised fears the virus, which has so far infected , and killed , in the east African country, may surge in the next three weeks, even as schools are set for reopening on Jan . Africa CDC had predicted increased cases of coronavirus infections across the continent by February due to the Christmas and endofyear festivities. In addition, doctors have resumed their duties after the strike that kicked off on Dec  was called off on Dec , following the signing of an agreement between the Kenya Medical Practitioners, Pharmacists and Dentists Union and the government. The doctors had gone on strike demanding medical insurance coverage, better pay and better protective equipment. Clinicians and nurses who went on strike on Dec  over similar demands have yet to resume work.