Turkeys total COVID cases hit ,, Oman to begin vaccination campaign
2020/12/27 7:35
CAIRO  Turkeys health ministry reported , new cases on Saturday, bringing the tally in the country to ,,. Meanwhile, Irans total cases increased to ,,, with , new cases. ? Priests wearing protective face masks attend a Christmas Eve mass at the Catholic Cathedral of the Holy Spirit, known as the?St. Esprit Cathedral, in central Istanbul, Turkey December , .  The death toll in Turkey rose to , with  new deaths and the total recoveries hit ,,. Oman will begin on Sunday the vaccination campaign with the PfizerBioNTech vaccine against the novel coronavirus. The campaign targets, in the first stage, the most vulnerable groups to the pandemic, including frontline workers, people with chronic diseases and the elderly, said a health ministry statement. The Omani health ministry earlier said , COVID infections have been reported so far while the fatalities hit ,. Irans Health Ministry reported , new COVID cases, raising the total nationwide infections to ,,. The pandemic has so far claimed , lives in Iran, up by  in the past  hours, said Sima Sadat Lari, spokeswoman for the Iranian Ministry of Health and Medical Education during her daily briefing. A total of , people have recovered from the disease and been discharged from hospitals, while , remain in intensive care units, she added. Israels Ministry of Health reported , new coronavirus cases, bringing the total to ,. The death toll of the virus in Israel increased to , with  new fatalities, while the number of patients in serious condition rose from  to , out of  hospitalized patients. The total recoveries rose to , after , new recovered cases were added, while active cases stand at ,. On Sunday, a third full nationwide lockdown will take effect in Israel, starting at  p.m. local time. The lockdown, aimed to curb the recent jump in morbidity, will include movement restrictions, business closures, reduced activity of workplaces, public transportation and education system, and gathering limitations. The Iraqi Health Ministry reported  new COVID cases, bringing the total nationwide infections to ,. The ministry also reported  new deaths, raising the death toll from the infectious virus to ,, and the total recoveries rose to ,. Earlier, the Iraqi authorities imposed new restrictive measures to protect people from a new strain of coronavirus that was recently found in many countries. The authorities also banned the entry of travellers from these countries, except for Iraqi citizens who must be quarantined for  days until a PCR test proves they are not infected with the virus. Saudi Arabia reported  new cases, taking the tally to ,, and eight new deaths, bringing the death toll to ,. The total recoveries rose to ,. Morocco registered , new COVID cases, taking the total tally in the North African country since March  to ,, the health ministry said in a statement. The total number of recoveries from COVID in Morocco increased to , after , new ones were added. A senior Palestinian health official announced that Palestine would receive the first shipment of COVID vaccines within two weeks. Kamal alShakhra, the Palestinian Health Ministry spokesman, told a news briefing in Ramallah that the ministry has contacted with the World Health Organization WHO to ensure the vaccines for Palestine. The ministry also contacted several international companies which produce the vaccines, and asked for speedy delivery, he said. The United Arab Emirates UAE reported , new cases, taking the tally to ,, and two new deaths, bringing the death toll to . The total recoveries reached ,. Jordans ministry of health said , new cases were discovered, taking the tally to ,. The death toll increased to , with  new deaths. The total recoveries hit ,. The Qatari health ministry announced  new COVID infections, raising the total number of confirmed cases in the Gulf state to ,. It said  more recovered from the virus, bringing the overall recoveries to ,, while the fatalities remained  for the second day running. Kuwaits COVID cases increased by  to ,, while the death toll rose by three to . The Kuwaiti Health Ministry also announced the recovery of  more patients, taking the total recoveries to ,.