Postgrad examtakers on rise in tougher job market
2020/12/26 7:31
Students wait in lines for the national postgraduate entrance exam at the gate of the Renmin University in Beijing on Dec , .  A record . million people are expected to take part in Chinas  national entrance exam for postgraduate studies from Saturday to Monday, , more than last year, according to the Ministry of Education. That marks a yearonyear increase of . percent. The number has increased steadily over the past several years from . million in  to . million in , . million in  and . million this year, ministry said. While there has been significant increase in applicants, the increase in enrollment has been slower. Last year, , examinees were enrolled in postgraduate studies, up from , in  and , in , according to the ministry. The mismatch in growth rates of applicants and enrollees has made the exam increasingly competitive. The overall student enrollment rate has dropped from  percent in  to  percent in  and  percent last year. On Thursday night, the ministry also asked local educational authorities to conduct the strictest epidemic prevention and control measures to ensure the safety of examinees and test supervisors. Testtakers in highor mediumrisk areas and those with symptoms of illness who are placed in isolation rooms should wear masks throughout the exam, while participants in lowrisk areas should wear masks before they enter the test rooms, the ministry said. All exam centers and test papers should be thoroughly disinfected and test supervisors should instruct participants about keeping a proper distance from each other, it said. With a record . million university students expected to graduate next year, a survey by education website eol.cn published recently found that growing competition in the job market was among the top reasons for the increase in applicants. When asked about the reasons they wanted to pursue a masters degree,  percent of respondents said it would improve their overall capability, . percent said it would boost their competitiveness in the job market and  percent said they wanted to study at a better university. Less than  percent said they wanted to pursue postgraduate studies for academic research and  percent said they had given up plans to study overseas in favor of domestic universities due to the COVID pandemic, the survey said. The survey also found that an increasing number of students who take the exam have started working but are unsatisfactory with their jobs. They want to obtain a higher degree as a way to better employment options, it said. A total of , people who applied to Yunnan University this year had graduated in previous years, accounting for  percent of the total applicants, up by  percentage points from last year. Almost , people or  percent of the total who applied to Northwest Normal University in Lanzhou, Gansu province, are not new graduates, up by  percentage points from last year. Ma Kanghui, a senior from North China Institute of Aerospace Engineering in Langfang, Hebei province, said he had decided to take the exam two years ago because he considered a bachelors degree inadequate for finding a good job. More than  percent of his classmates have signed up for the exam because a masters degree has become the entry requirement for many good jobs, the yearold said. Wu Dongcheng, , a senior from Henan Agricultural University, said preparation for the postgraduate entrance exam has been more difficult than the notoriously competitive national college entrance exam, or gaokao. For the gaokao, you have the teachers guidance all the way and the entire class beside you, but for postgraduate exam, you are fighting your own battle as different people take different exams based on the university and major chosen, he said. Both Ma and Wu said they are prepared to take the exam again if the results are not satisfactory because they consider it an opportunity for a better future.