Code sets standards for supervisors of postgraduates
2020/12/25 20:03
A medical worker collects a throat swab from a resident at a nucleic acid testing site in Xicheng district in Beijing, on Dec , . Photo by Wu Xiaohuichinadaily.com.cn Beijing government has taken strict prevention and control measures for the national postgraduate entrance exams starting Saturday. In addition to the negative nucleic acid tests taken within past seven days, the authority also asked the students to wear masks when entering and leaving the test rooms and suggest wearing the masks during the whole test.? Wen Zhihao, , a student who will take the exam in Beijing, said he trusts the citys prevention and control measures and the new cases reported recently in the city had not affected his mood at all.? However, I dont think I can wear the mask during the whole test. I will take it off during the tests, he said.? Beijing reported two asymptomatic COVID cases from Wednesday to  pm Thursday and one of it was a yearold male who was going to take the exam. Chen Bei, deputy secretary general of the Beijing municipal government, said at a news conference on Friday that the government suggests citizens to spend the coming New Years Holiday and Chinese Lunar New Year Which falls in February  within the city and to reduce the infection risks.? Citizens should not leave the city when its not necessary, she said. The outbound travel should continue to be suspended and largescale event should not be held. Its normal that China would see COVID outbreaks in some places since the global pandemic is still growing, while the rising cases is a reminder that we should stick to our prevention and control measures to avoid risks, said Wu Zunyou, chief epidemiologist at the Chinese Center for Disease Control and Prevention. He told China Central Television on Thursday that China reported many asymptomatic cases recently, which means that we have discovered the potential risks before they spread to a wide range based on our multiple measures including testing.