World Chinese Economic Summit projects postpandemic recovery and sustainable development
2020/12/25 9:58
Nurse Dania Lima right helps a fellow nurse put on her personal protective equipment in a COVID unit at a medical center in Los Angeles on Tuesday. JAE C. HONGASSOCIATED PRESS Health workers across the United States are reporting a critical shortage of protective personal equipment, or PPE, amid a surge in COVID cases. The federal government has fallen behind in achieving its goal to secure certain types of PPE, such as nitrile gloves. It set a goal in May to obtain  million N masks to supply health workers on the front lines fighting COVID. But by the middle of November, the US Strategic National Stockpile and the Federal Emergency Management Agency had only secured  million N masks. There is still no centralized federal database for personal protective equipment, said Ali Raja, an emergencyroom doctor who cofounded Get Us PPE, the nations largest nonprofit founded by emergency physicians to give donated PPE to organizations that need it. The disconnect between whats purported to be in the stockpile and the needs on the frontline is astounding, she told The Wall Street Journal on Dec . More than  million pieces of PPE are in demand every week in the US, Get Us PPE said. The group has delivered more than  million units of PPE, but said that met only  percent of requests. The majority of healthcare facilities say they are facing an unparalleled shortage of PPE. As of November, about  percent of facilities were completely out of one or more types of PPE for the third consecutive month. Thirtysix percent of longterm care facilities had no supply remaining of at least one type of PPE, the group said. A survey released on Nov  by National Nurses United, the nations largest union of registered nurses, shows only . percent of nurses in hospitals report they have universal PPE in the emergency department. Gloves in short supply Nitrile gloves, an industrystandard item which reduces the spread of infectious viruses, are in particularly short supply. In a November report to Congressional committees, the US Government Accountability Office pointed out that availability constraints continue with nitrile gloves, with the national stockpile of gloves dropping from . million in December  to  million in October . The government may not meet the supply target for gloves by the end of the year, said officials of the Office of the Assistant Secretary for Preparedness and Response, or ASPR, which operates within the US Health and Human Services Department. The source of PPE including nitrile gloves is part of the reason why the supply is not meeting demand. US medical supplies rely on overseas supply chains instead of domestic production, leading to shortages because of surging global demand. There is an increasing shortage of nitrile gloves, Rob Handfield, a professor at North Carolina State University and a supply chain expert said on Tuesday. China has helped overcome PPE shortages in the United States. Zhao Lijian, a spokesman of the Foreign Ministry, said that from March to October, China has exported more than  billion surgery masks,  million surgical gloves,  million hazmat suits, more than  million safety glasses, and , respirators to the US.