Guangdong, Beijing top innovative regions in China
2020/12/25 9:42
A woman wearing a face mask walks across Westminster Bridge past the Houses of Parliament, as the spread of the coronavirus disease COVID continues, in London, Britain, December , .? LONDON  London has seen the highest increase in case rates per , population among various regions in England with . in week  compared to . in the previous week, according to the latest figures updated on Thursday by the Public Health England PHE. The weekly report, which monitors COVID, influenza and other seasonal respiratory viruses in England, is based on data from week  between Dec.  and , and for some indicators daily data up to Dec. . Case rates per , have increased across all regions in England and are the highest in London with a rate of . per , population, according to the report. Case rates have increased across all age groups as well, with the highest rate . per , population seen in those aged between  and , the figures also showed. The hospital admission rate for COVID was . per , in week , compared to . per , in the previous week, said the report. Hospital admission rates for COVID have increased in all regions except for the north east of England but this region also has the highest rate of ., said the PHE. More than , COVID patients were admitted to London hospitals in a week and cases soared by nearly ,, official figures has revealed. The figures showed a growing number of people struck down with the virus needing hospital treatment, with  admitted to hospitals in the city on Dec. , and  the previous day. This will not be a normal Christmas for any of us. If you are seeing loved ones, try to keep your distance, wash your hands thoroughly and more often and ventilate as much as possible, said Yvonne Doyle, medical director at the PHE. London and large parts of England are currently put into the Tier Four restrictions, the highest level. Under the new tougher measures, residents in Tier Four areas must stay at home, with limited exemptions. People are also urged to work from home when they can, and should not enter or leave those areas. To bring life back to normal, countries such as Britain, China, Germany, Russia and the United States are racing against time to develop coronavirus vaccines.