Antimonopoly probe launched against Alibaba
2020/12/25 9:02
Kang Qibo delivers parcels in Kunming, Yunnan province. PHOTO PROVIDED TO CHINA DAILY Kang Qibo, a yearold deliveryman from Kunming, Yunnan province, has been honored for helping obtain drugs for a young leukemia patient during the COVID outbreak. He was named by the Ministry of Transport as a national advanced individual in the transportation industry for his selfless efforts during the outbreak, regardless of the risk to his personal safety. On the afternoon of Feb , Kang was delivering parcels when his boss called and asked him to fetch cancer treatment drugs from the Kunming Childrens Hospital for a yearold child with leukemia. The childs family lives in Gejiu, Honghe Hani and Yi autonomous prefecture, Yunnan, about  kilometers from Kunming. They had called Kangs company for help, saying the child was in urgent need of the drugs. Before, they had been able to travel to Kunming to get medical treatment and drugs for the child, but at the end of January, crosscity buses and taxis were suspended due to the COVID epidemic. In desperation, they turned to Kangs express delivery service company for help. Kang said he momentarily hesitated at the request, as few people were willing to visit hospitals at the time due to the novel coronavirus threat. I heard there was one confirmed COVID case of a store owner  to  meters from the hospital, he said. However, the military veteran said his thoughts turned to his three children and what he would do if one of them was in a similar situation. My heart is wrenched every time one of my children gets sick, he said. I felt sad hearing that the life of such a small child depended on drugs. Rushing to the hospital, he parked his motorbike outside, was disinfected at the entrance, then phoned the number of a doctor the family had provided. A doctor in protective clothing handed him four boxes of medicine and he returned to his companys delivery station  km away. Yang Zhihui, head of the station, said the team coordinated its efforts to quickly deliver the drugs and the family called to say thank you after receiving them at  am the day after they were picked up by Kang. Yang said she gave Kang the job as he is familiar with the area and was near the hospital at that time. It was the third consecutive year Kang had worked during the Spring Festival holiday. Yang said the delivery workers who stayed during the festival had a heavy workload and greater contact with people, which put them at a higher risk of infection. Kang said his workload increased from  to  deliveries a day over the period and he worked hour shifts. Most of my clients purchased fresh food and daily necessities. Some received face masks, he said. Despite his brave act, Kang said he did not expect to receive the award from the ministry. I was just doing my everyday work, he said, adding he felt proud and happy to be able to help the child. The only breadwinner in a family of five, Kang said he is satisfied with his job, earning , to , yuan  a month. Yang said since Kang joined the company in , he has traveled over , km, and customers have praised his professionalism and prompt delivery of goods. In total, three deliverymen in Yunnan were honored for their contributions during the epidemic. The Kunming Municipal Postal Administration said the workers set an example for others in the industry to make extraordinary contributions while working ordinary posts.