Dalian collects . m residents samples for COVID testing
2020/12/24 20:31
A medical worker prepares to take swab samples from residents for coronavirus tests in Ganjingzi district of Dalian on Dec , . LIU DEBINFOR CHINA DAILY The city of Dalian in Northeast Chinas Liaoning province collected samples from some . million residents for coronavirus testing by Thursday noon, according to the city health commission. Dalian launched citywide nucleic acid testing on Tuesday in the wake of new COVID cases reported recently. The tests, which will cover all city residents, are likely to last for three days. The daily testing capacity of the city reached  million samples with the help of medical teams summoned from outside Dalian, the commission said. Though Thursday noon, results of tested samples from the regions except the Jinpu New Area were negative. More samples will be tested and released. The citys latest round of infections began on Dec  when four port workers handling coldchain food products were found to be asymptomatic carriers in Jinpu New Area, making it the key region in the city. Dalian has reported  confirmed, domestically transmitted COVID cases and  asymptomatic, domestically transmitted cases, as of Wednesday. There is a good supply of materials for epidemic prevention and control, as well as for residents daily necessities in Dalian, Cong Ke, director of the citys Commerce Bureau, said at a news conference on Thursday. For example, Dalians daily production capacity of masks is  million. It also can produce , pairs of gloves and , protective face masks every day, Cong said. Also Liaonings capital city, Shenyang, reported one new asymptomatic case on Wednesday from  pm to the end of the day. That new case is the husband of the confirmed case of a yearold woman surnamed Yin returning from South Korea, according to Shenyangs health commission. A total of , people related to the confirmed case have been tested, the commission said. Two residential compounds, where the confirmed case and her close contacts live, were classified as COVID mediumrisk zones. And , residents took nucleic acid testing and all results came back negative. Three of the five medical institutions, where Yin had been to, are suspended for business. All five medical institutions have been disinfected. Two schools related to Yins family suspended class, and  teachers and students took nucleic acid tests, all with negative results.