Rockets game postponed as COVID bites NBA on second day of season
2020/12/24 10:20
James Harden.  LOS ANGELES  COVID precautions forced the first postponement of the NBA season on just the second day of action Wednesday as the Houston Rockets home game against Oklahoma City was called off. Rockets superstar James Harden was fined , for violating protocols aimed at preventing the spread of coronavirus  a violation that left him ineligible for the teams scheduled season opener against the Oklahoma City Thunder, which was postponed because the Rockets didnt have the required eight players available. The NBA said in a statement that three Rockets players had returned positive or inconclusive coronavirus tests. Four other Rockets players had also been quarantined due to contact tracing measures. One other Rockets player was unavailable because of an injury. The National Basketball Association game scheduled for tonight between the Oklahoma City Thunder and the Houston Rockets at Toyota Center has been postponed in accordance with the leagues Health and Safety Protocols, the NBA said in a statement. The postponement was the last thing the league was hoping for on the second day of the season, when a full slate of  games were scheduled. ESPN reported Wednesday that the league was investigating Harden for a possible violation of protocols after video surfaced on social media that apparently showed him at a club without wearing a mask. Harden  who was a late arrival at training camp and has been at the center of reports that he has demanded a trade  issued a statement on Instagram, denying the video showed him at a strip club but acknowledging he was at an event hosted by a friend. One thing after another, Harden wrote. I went to show love to my homegirl at her event not a strip club because she is becoming a boss and putting her people in position of success and now its a problem. Everyday its something different. No matter how many times people try to drag my name under you cant. But the leagues coronavirus protocols prohibit players from attending indoor gatherings of more than  people. Houston Rockets guard James Harden has been fined , for violating the leagues Health and Safety Protocols, which among other things prohibit attending indoor social gatherings of  or more people or entering bars, lounges, clubs or similar establishments, NBA President of League Operations Byron Spruell said in a statement about two hours after the game was postponed. Harden violated these rules when he attended a private indoor party on Monday, Dec . The Rockets had noted in their official injury report that rookie Kenyon Martin Jr. was in selfisolation after a coronavirus test. ESPN and The Athletic website had reported that Martin was among a group of players who gathered on Tuesday night at a players apartment to receive haircuts. AFP