Transcript Webinar with COVID experts from China, US
2020/12/24 7:25
The Chinese surveying team works on the summit of Qomolangma on May .?TASHI TSERINGXINHUA Preparatory work is underway for a crossborder railway connecting Chinas Tibet autonomous region with Nepals capital, Kathmandu. Meanwhile, work will start on the ChinaNepal Friendship Industrial Park in Jhapa, eastern Nepal, early next year. The park is the first of its kind launched with Chinese investment. These two projects form part of the TransHimalayan MultiDimensional Connectivity Network, which China and Nepal vowed to bring about after signing a memorandum of understanding on Belt and Road Initiative cooperation in . Nepal joined the Chinaproposed initiative in . Last year, President Xi Jinping paid a state visit to Nepal, the first to the Himalayan country by a Chinese president for  years. During his visit, China and Nepal elevated their relationship to a strategic partnership. Nepalese media cited former prime minister Baburam Bhattarai as saying the move opened up new vistas for bilateral cooperation. The TransHimalayan Railway project, part of the Belt and Road Initiative, could be an economic and geopolitical gamechanger for Nepal and help the landlocked country access the global value chain, Bhattarai said. Zhang Hao, a research fellow at Beijing Foreign Studies University, said the TransHimalayan MultiDimensional Connectivity Network will bring many benefits for China and Nepal. The network involves infrastructure projects such as building railways and communication networks, along with cultural exchanges, he said, adding that such projects would better peoples livelihoods in Nepal and contribute to the prosperity of both countries. Referring to the railway project, he said Once the railway opens, it will be the first line connecting China and Nepal and will facilitate peopletopeople exchanges at all levels. In the first nine months of last year, bilateral trade between China and Nepal reached nearly . billion, a yearonyear rise of . percent, according to official data. When Nepal badly needed medical supplies to curb the spread of COVID earlier this year, China was quick to help. In late March, China donated supplies to Nepal, including face masks, thermometers, goggles, protective clothing and portable ventilators. Supplies from the Jack Ma Foundation and Alibaba Foundation also arrived in Nepal. Authorities in Tibet autonomous region and Xian, capital of Shaanxi province, also donated medical supplies to Nepal. At least , N face masks, , COVID testing kits and , items of personal protective equipment were sent to help the country fight the pandemic. Back in , the Chinese and Nepalese governments signed a protocol to send Chinese medical teams to Nepal. In following years, authorities in Hebei province sent  medical professionals to Nepal, with the th such team, comprising  medical workers, arriving in the country in September. In April , after a devastating earthquake struck Nepal, the Chinese government formed the China Medical Team and sent it to help at the disaster zone. On Dec , a day after the two countries announced the new height for Qomolangma, Mahendra Bahadur Pandey, Nepals ambassador to China, hailed their solid relations. He made the remarks in an interview with Xian Daily during his first visit to the city. The envoy said Xian is beautiful, rich in educational resources and has the highest number of Nepalese students among all Chinese cities. The Belt and Road Initiative will benefit many countries in the region, including Nepal, he added. Pandey said Asia is the worlds largest and most populous continent and its development is crucial globally. The BRI has produced a series of exchanges among different cultures and will connect the world as a whole. It has also boosted cooperation among countries in education, science, economic and cultural development, he said.