Midi Music Festival to close  with live music in  cities
2020/12/23 14:59
Dr. Deborah Birx, the White House coronavirus response coordinator, speaks in front of a map showing coronavirus disease cases per , person population at a briefing by the White House coronavirus task force in the Brady press briefing room at the White House in Washington, Nov , .  WASHINGTON  As COVID cases skyrocketed before the Thanksgiving holiday weekend, Dr. Deborah Birx, coordinator of the White House coronavirus response, warned Americans to be vigilant and limit celebrations to your immediate household. For many Americans that guidance has been difficult to abide, including for Birx herself. The day after Thanksgiving, she traveled to one of her vacation properties on Fenwick Island in Delaware. She was accompanied by three generations of her family from two households. Birx, her husband Paige Reffe, a daughter, soninlaw and two young grandchildren were present. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has asked Americans not to travel over the holidays and discourages indoor activity involving members of different households. People who do not currently live in your housing unit, such as college students who are returning home from school for the holidays, should be considered part of different households. Even in Birxs everyday life, there are challenges meeting that standard. She and her husband have a home in Washington. She also owns a home in nearby Potomac, Maryland, where her elderly parents, and her daughter and family live, and where Birx visits intermittently. In addition, the childrens other grandmother, who is , also regularly travels to the Potomac house and returns to her yearold husband near Baltimore. Birxs own experiences underline the complexity and difficulty of trying to navigate the perils of the pandemic while balancing a job, family and health, especially among essential workers like her. Yet some of Birxs peers in public health say she should be held to a higher standard given her prominent role in the governments response to the pandemic and the current surge in COVID deaths across the country. Birx has expressed a desire to maintain a significant role on the White House coronavirus task force when Presidentelect Joe Biden is inaugurated next month, according to a person familiar with the Biden teams personnel deliberations and a Trump administration coronavirus task force official. Neither was authorized to publicly discuss internal deliberations and both spoke on condition of anonymity. To me this disqualifies her from any future government health position, said Dr. Angela Rasmussen, a virologist at the Georgetown Center for Global Health Science and Security. Its a terrible message for someone in public health to be sending to the American people. After The Associated Press raised questions about her Thanksgiving weekend travels, Birx acknowledged in a statement that she went to her Delaware property. She declined to be interviewed. She insisted the purpose of the roughly hour visit was to deal with the winterization of the property before a potential sale  something she says she previously hadnt had time to do because of her busy schedule. I did not go to Delaware for the purpose of celebrating Thanksgiving, Birx said in her statement, adding that her family shared a meal together while in Delaware. Birx said that everyone on her Delaware trip belongs to her immediate household, even as she acknowledged they live in two different homes. She initially called the Potomac home a  generation household formerly  generations. White House officials later said it continues to be a fourgeneration household, a distinction that would include Birx as part of the home. ? White House Coronavirus Task Force coordinator Dr. Deborah Birx leaves after a television interview at the White House in Washington, September , .  While in Delaware, she conducted an interview with CBS Face the Nation in which she noted some Americans went across the country or even into the next state for the holiday weekend. Some people may have made mistakes over the Thanksgiving time period, Birx said in the interview, adding that those who travelled should assume they were infected. Birxs job makes her an essential worker by federal guidelines, in a position that requires extensive travel to consult with state and local officials on the pandemic response. She has traveled to  states, driving , miles, she said, often to coronavirus hot spots. Birx also has an office in the White House, where numerous COVID infections have been revealed. Through it all, she said she has kept herself and her family safe through isolating, wearing a mask and regular testing. Birx has not said how long she isolates for before visiting family. Medical experts say people who only recently became infected often do not test positive. They say wearing a mask has limited efficacy in an environment such as the White House, where few others use them. Margaret Flynn, the childrens other grandmother comes to the Potomac home to provide child care, then returns to her husband, who has health complications. Birx said that she hasnt seen the other grandmother since the beginning of the pandemic and does not know how frequently she visits the Potomac house. Flynn confirmed that she hasnt spoken to Birx in months. Flynn declined to say how frequently she visits the home to look after the grandchildren. From the podium at the White House, Birx has spoken about how she comes from a multigenerational family with her parents and her daughters family, including grandchildren, all living under one roof. Many saw that as a relatable family dilemma. In early April, she said she understood the sacrifices many were making and explained that she couldnt visit her Potomac home when one of her grandchildren had a high fever. I did not go there, she said, while standing next to President Donald Trump. You cant take that kind of risk. She has resumed her visits to the house since then. Numerous elected officials, including prominent Democrats, have been forced to acknowledge that they have not heeded their own stern warnings to the public about the dangers of spreading the virus. But Birx occupies a position of far greater authority when it comes to the pandemic. Many Americans rely on the advice that she and the governments top infectious disease expert, Dr. Anthony Fauci, have given. Kathleen Flynn, whose brother is married to Birxs daughter who lives in the Potomac house, said she brought forward information about Birxs situation out of concern for her own parents, and acknowledged family friction over the matter. She cavalierly violated her own guidance, Flynn said of Birx. Richard Flynn, her father, confirmed details of Birxs Thanksgiving holiday gathering and visits to the Potomac house, but said he trusted the doctor and believes shes doing whats right. He said Birxs visits to the house have occurred only every few weeks of late. Dr. Birx is very conscientious and a very good doctor and scientist from everything I can see, Richard Flynn said during a recent interview. Medical experts say public health officials such as Birx need to lead by example, including personal conduct thats beyond reproach. We need leadership to be setting an example, especially in terms of things they are asking average Americans to do who are far less privileged than they are, said Dr. Abraar Karan, a global health specialist at Brigham and Womens Hospital and Harvard Medical School, about the highprofile lapses in judgment. Birx came to the White House coronavirus task force with a sterling reputation. A public servant since the Reagan administration, Birx has served as a U.S. Army physician and as a globally recognized AIDS researcher. She was pulled away from her ambassadorial post as the U.S. global AIDS coordinator to assist the task force in late February. Birx, however, has faced criticism from public health experts and Democratic lawmakers for not speaking out forcefully against Trump when he contradicted advice from medical advisers and scientists about how to fight the virus. Kathleen Flynn said she urged her brother and sisterinlaw not to allow her mother to babysit, arguing it put her mother at risk by spending so much time in a household other than her own, while also posing a danger to Birxs elderly parents. Flynn, who said she has long had a strained relationship with her brother, is currently not on speaking terms with him and has never met Birx. Flynn said her mother waited about a week after Birxs Thanksgiving trip before returning to the Potomac home to provide child care help. Lawrence Gostin, a public health expert at Georgetown Universitys law school who has known Birx professionally for years, said that hes confident that Birx took all necessary precautions to minimize risks in her Thanksgiving travel. Still, he said it undercuts her larger goal to get Americans to cooperate with government officials efforts to minimize the death and suffering caused by the virus. Its extraordinarily important for the leaders of the coronavirus response to model the behavior that they recommend to the public, Gostin said. We lose faith in our public health officials if they are saying these are the rules but they dont apply to me. Madhani reported from Wilmington, Delaware. AP