Women bearing the brunt of pandemic
2020/12/23 7:48
A woman wearing face mask looks out from a bus in Wuhan, Hubei province, Dec , .  Females take on range of additional responsibilities After working from home and taking care of her two children for several months, yearold Huang Cailing is focusing on keeping her job with a home appliance company in Shenzhen, Guangdong province. Due to the pandemic, her parentsinlaw, who usually look after the children, were unable to return to Shenzhen after Spring Festival. Huangs yearold daughter had to stay home as her school was closed, and the mother was also unable to find a nanny for her yearold son. Working from home with two children making endless demands or fighting with each other and crying has been terrible, she said. I am constantly exhausted and have rushed to meet work deadlines, but my husband just did everything as usual, which made me feel that its unfair. While people worldwide face unprecedented challenges from the COVID pandemic, analysis shows that women are bearing the brunt of the economic and social fallout from the disease. Ginette Azcona, lead author of UN Womens latest report From Insights to Action, said that for the past  years extreme poverty had been declining globally. Then came COVID, and with it, shrinking economies and lost livelihoods, particularly for women, she said. Phumzile MlamboNgcuka, undersecretarygeneral of the UN and executive director of UN Women, said at the G summit in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, last month that according to the latest estimates, by next year, an additional  million women and girls will have been pushed into extreme poverty as a result of the pandemic. A total of  million women and girls will be living on less than . a day and gender gaps caused by extreme poverty will widen further. By , there could be  women in poverty, for every  poor men globally. Those worst affected would be females  to  years old, ages when many are raising families, she said. Moreover, unpaid care by women in families and communities has long been taken for granted, she said. In some countries, women perform  times more unpaid care than men. This invisible work contributes at least . trillion a year to the global economy, and societies and economies have depended on it. During the pandemic, with women continuing to bridge the gap as schools, childcare and other services are shut down or scaled back, they bear the brunt of lost or reduced paid work, MlamboNgcuka added. Women wearing protective masks walk in the Palais Royal, in Paris, Aug , .  Widespread impact Projections from the International Labour Organization show that  million fulltime jobs may be lost due to COVID, with womens employment  percent more at risk than mens. The global recession and associated loss of income makes it even harder for women to escape abusive relationships at a time when intimatepartner violence is clearly on the rise in the shadow of the pandemic and increased violence of all types, MlamboNgcuka said. Melissa Williamson, cochair of the Early Care and Education Task Force at the South Texas Trauma Consortium in the United States, said the pandemic has had a farreaching impact on early childhood educators. Many women in this field have had to leave their jobs because their schools have closed or they have to stay home to take care of their children. The field of early education is predominantly run by women. As a result, they have suffered more job losses in this industry than men, she said. Williamson suggested that women use their ingenuity to create opportunities for themselves. COVID has exposed us to many changes, so change with it. Be sure to move your talent with the times, she said. Jille Natalino, , an art director in San Diego, US, said she is worried about the pandemic. She now works online and spends numerous hours taking part in video calls. I dont have children, so Im lucky that I dont have to juggle childcare and work, she said. But I have seen many families where the mother has to take on more responsibilities around the house while either stepping back at work or stopping it altogether. She said the good news is that at her company many men have offered to split childcare duties with their wives so that both partners can pursue their careers on an equal footing. Denise Bolandrina, marketing manager at Global Blue, a taxfree shopping company headquartered in Nyon, Switzerland, lives in Bergamo, Italy, a city badly affected by the pandemic. She said COVID has radically changed peoples way of thinking and acting. Ive lost a lot of people around me and this has had a strong psychological impact, but I think it has also been a precious opportunity to appreciate what we usually take for grantedlife, family, friends, work and the freedom to do what we want and go where we want, she said. Bolandrina said she used to divide each day between work and family, and she has not had a lot of time to take care of her daughter. Working mainly from home during the pandemic is a great opportunity, but also a challenge, as it is not easy to make children understand that you are there with them but you are also working. Sometimes, Im doing video calls with my daughter trying to appear on the screen or constantly asking for a sweet while Im talking, she said. Bolandrina added that her job has always been fundamental to her worklife balance, as it gives her the opportunity as a woman to feel complete with her family, but she said it is not easy to mix work and life. When you are a working woman and a mother, you always have the feeling you are not doing enough on one front or the other, she said. Bolandrina said COVID has had a deep impact on her company, as the business is mainly linked to international travelers. However, the company was quick to come up with a set of solutions to help physical shops. It used its knowledge of the retail sector to accelerate links between online and offline shopping to support traders in a rapidly changing market, she added. Global Blue has a lot of female employees and I think it is a forwardthinking company when compared to others in Italy, she said. She added that working hours for most of the companys teams and those working in the tourism industry have been reduced as a result of the pandemic, and it is always difficult for women to combine work and family. You often hear people, sometimes women, saying that you are working too much, and as you cannot do both jobs properly, you are not doing enough for your family. No one would say this to a man, as working is his role. The COVID situation has amplified this perception, she said. Bolandrina added that although times are changing, the world is still far from achieving gender equality. Above all in Italy, there is no specific help and support for women and the situation they find themselves in. Families are supported by grandparents if they are lucky, otherwise they have to pay for everything, she said. A women wearing a protective face mask walks in downtown Ciudad Juarez, Mexico, Dec , .  Boundaries blurred Yao Yao, chief operating officer at ThoughtWorks China, a global software consulting company, said that with the boundaries between work and family becoming blurred due to the pandemic, women often make more sacrifices than men, such as moving a computer next to their children, while men tend to seek their own workspaces at home. She said basic and lowpaid jobs tend to go first when companies lay off workers. Women worldwide, who have long experienced unfair opportunities to develop their careers, tend to occupy these positions, and will naturally be more affected by layoffs. Yao has also found that during the pandemic female employees are paying more attention than men to individuals needs, and that her company is working on strategies to respond to the virus, such as preparing emergency supplies and making new work arrangements. She said that people have become more depressed during the outbreak, as their movements have been restricted. Yao has used her expertise in personal development coaching to support colleagues and has also organized online activities, including physical workouts, yoga classes and karaoke competitions. She and her management team, which mainly comprises women, have been creative in making employees feel connected and in raising their spirits. Yao said that during the pandemic many women are taking the opportunity to try new things. As an example, she cited an insurance broker who started to livestream her experiences and thoughts on childrens education. Many confident women have become more resilient and have found opportunities to become stronger during the pandemic, she said. She added that the outbreak has affected everyone, and it is more important than ever to care and support both genders and build strong connections among humanity, rather than overemphasize gender differences.