White paper  Fighting Covid China in Action
2020/12/22 16:17
A woman wears a face mask at a market in the Chinatown district of San Francisco, California, on Feb , . SHANNON STAPLETONREUTERS As the coronavirus spread throughout the US, bigotry toward Asian Americans was not far behind, fueled by the news that the first COVID?cases were reported in China. Some initial evidence suggested the virus began in bats. The information quickly got distorted in the US, spurring racist memes on social media that portrayed Chinese people as bat eaters responsible for spreading the virus, and reviving centuryold tropes about Asian food being dirty.? That oldschool rhetoric that we eat bats, dogs and rats  that racism is still alive and well, said Clarence Kwan, creator of the antiracist cooking zine Chinese Protest Recipes. The speed with which such false stereotypes resurfaced during the pandemic is a reflection of how little progress weve made, Kwan said. Wildlife and other exotic animals are not part of the modern mainstream Asian diet, either in Asian countries or in the US. All of the misinformation has had serious consequences. Stop AAPI Hate, a coalition of Asian American advocacy groups, issued a report in August stating that it had received more than , reports of hate and discrimination across the country since the group was founded in March, around the time the outbreak began to seriously worsen in the US The group said it received data from  states, with  of the incidents taking place in California, followed by  in New York. In addition, Asian American small businesses have been among the hardest hit by the economic downturn during the pandemic. While there was a  decline in all small businessowner activity nationwide from February to April, Asian American businessowner activity dropped by , according to a study by the National Bureau of Economic Research. Many businesses that survived have been subject to stigmatization, Kwan said. Restaurants have been vandalized. As if the pandemic wasnt hard enough, theres this added threat to Asian businesses of this lingering hate. Conversations about the stigmatization of Asian food reached a crescendo this month when Philli ArmitageMattin, a contestant on MasterChef The Professionals, used the phrase Dirty Food Refined and the hashtag prettydirtyfood in her Instagram bio, which described her as an Asian food specialist. In a year where Chinese and East Asian communities have essentially been blamed for the pandemic and chastised as dirty, this type of narrative is completely unacceptable, Kwan wrote on Instagram. ArmitageMattins bio has since been changed and the Londonbased chef apologized on Instagram, while also insisting that she had never meant to insult anyone. The way I mean food to be dirty is indulgent street food food that comforts you as in, going out for a dirty burger, she wrote. But Kwan said especially in the current climate, such phrases can be dangerous. It was a very flippant, ignorant, tonedeaf way of talking about Asian food, he said. Racist rhetoric referring to Asian food as dirty or diseaseladen dates back to the s, said Ellen Wu, a history professor at Indiana University. Wu said the false notion that Chinese people eat rat or dog meat is rooted in the xenophobic fears of white workers who used Chinese immigrant workers as a scapegoat for their economic woes. To white Americans, these new immigrants were different in a threatening way, and there is fear of the other, of difference, said Wu, who is Asian American. Benny Yun, owner of the Yang Chow restaurant in Los Angeles Chinatown district and two other locations in Southern California, said even though his businesses have survived the pandemic, they get prank calls almost daily asking if they have dog or cat on the menu or impersonating a thick Asian accent. The worst part is if they realize you speak perfect English, then they just give you a random order and we prepare it and they dont even come to pick it up. Waste of time and money, Yun said. For years, health inspectors have been accused of docking points from Chinese restaurants for employing traditional cooking and presentation methods, such as hanging roast duck in the front window. The common yet scientifically disproven claim that MSG causes illness made the Chinese food flavor enhancer highly unpopular in the s, forcing many Asian American restaurants to eliminate it from their kitchens. Kwan said it is important for Asian Americans to protest the way they are being treated to push back against the latest onslaught of bias and racism by continuing to unabashedly celebrate their food and culture. AP