Mauritius in comeback after oil spill
2021/10/3 7:24
A man wearing a protective face mask around his neck, amid the coronavirus disease COVID pandemic, holds a sign on a street corner in the SoHo section of Manhattan in New York City, US, October , .  NEW YORK  The United States has set the pace to expand the spectrum of COVID vaccines, while its vaccination campaign drags on as it hit a grim milestone of , deaths in the pandemic that has entered its th month. Topping the world, the United States on Friday surpassed , deaths from COVID, according to Johns Hopkins Universitys data. Meanwhile, the average number of people getting vaccinated, at , per day, is the lowest it has been since Aug , according to the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention CDC. The CDC updated on Saturday that ,, people have received at least one dose of COVID vaccine, making up . percent of the whole US population fully vaccinated people stood at ,,, accounting for . percent of the total. A total of ,, people, or . percent of the fully vaccinated group, received booster shots. Trying to add some bright color to the ongoing tragedy, CDC Director Rochelle Walensky told reporters at a White House briefing on Friday that weekly COVID cases and hospitalizations in the United States were down by  percent from the previous week. According to The New York Times update, the sevenday average of confirmed cases of the pandemic stood at , nationwide on Friday, with its day change striking a percent fall. The COVIDrelated deaths were , on Friday, with the day change realizing a percent decrease. WIDERANGING VACCINE REQUIREMENTS As many companies impose COVID vaccine mandates, employees who refuse to get jabbed are getting the ax, reported CBS on Friday, adding that employers in the health care and aviation industries this week dismissed hundreds of workers who declined to get inoculated. A case in point is Christiana Care, which is headquartered in Wilmington, Delaware, and has , beds across three hospitals. On Monday, it announced that some  of its employees had failed to meet a Sept  deadline to be fully vaccinated. As a result, they were fired. Health care organizations account for most of the firings of unvaccinated workers, but other kinds of employers are also expected to follow suit when workers start reporting to offices again in earnest. Currently, a dilemma is being weighed for some companies considering vaccine mandates an acute worker shortage among retailers, restaurants, hotels and other servicesector employers, according to the report. On Friday, the Broadway League announced that all its  theaters in New York City will continue to require COVID vaccinations for audience members, performers, backstage crew and venue staff at least through the end of the year. Audiences also will be required to wear masks inside the theaters at least for the remainder of , except while actively eating or drinking in designated locations. The announcement extended the COVID protocol policy that has been in place since Broadway resumed performances in July. At that time, the League said it would review the procedures in the fall. Theater owners will again review the policies by Dec.  for performances starting Jan , . We know that with these policies in place through the end of the year, we will continue to help our audiences feel safe and to deliver them the thrill of Broadway night after night, Charlotte St. Martin, president of the Broadway League, said in a statement. PILLS, MORE VACCINES People take part in a protest against the coronavirus disease COVID vaccine in New York City, US, Sept , .  Merck and Ridgeback Biotherapeutics said on Friday that they created an antiviral pill that can reduce the risk of COVID hospitalization and death by about  percent, but health experts cautioned that it wasnt a replacement for vaccinations, which remain the most effective path to ending the coronavirus pandemic if enough people get their shots. This can be used in conjunction with the vaccine. And its not an alternative to vaccination. We still have to try to get more people vaccinated, Scott Gottlieb, former commissioner of the US Food and Drug Administration FDA, was quoted by CNN as saying. Gottlieb acknowledged that the antiviral medicine could be effective for those who choose not to get vaccinated as well as those who catch the virus while fully vaccinated. Merck said that it will seek FDA emergency use authorization for its molnupiravir medication as soon as possible. If permitted, it would become the first oral medicine that fights viral infection for COVID. If approved, I think the right way to think about this is this is a potential additional tool in our toolbox to protect people from the worst outcomes of COVID, White House COVID Response Coordinator Jeff Zients said on Friday. Also on Friday, the FDA announced that its independent vaccine advisory committee will hold three meetings in October to discuss COVID booster shots, mixandmatch boosters and vaccines for children aged  to . The first two meetings, on Oct  and , will cover booster doses of the Moderna vaccine and the Johnson  Johnson vaccine, both of which are authorized for use in adults. During the second meeting, the committee also will discuss data from the National Institutes of Health and the safety and efficacy of getting initial doses of one COVID vaccine and, later, a booster dose of another manufacturers shot. Less than two weeks later, on Oct , the FDA panel will discuss Pfizers request to FDA to authorize its COVID shot for  to yearold children. No vaccines are currently available for kids under , and only Pfizers shot is available for teens  to . The meetings set up a rough timeline for a slate of FDA decisions that could help the country avoid a damaging winter surge, and ultimately help bring the pandemic to an end, reported US news portal Politico.