US pandemic woes selfinflicted
2020/12/22 11:07
Editors Note In , compared with the previous years film market, the popularity of domestic films this year improved, the themes were more diverse, and the coverage was more extensive. Here are the top  domestic box office movies in . A poster of the film, The Eight Hundred. .The Eight Hundred Douban Rating . The Eight Hundred is based on the battle of Songhu in . It tells the story of a camp of the Chinese National Revolutionary Army and its adherence in Shanghai. To strengthen the momentum, the actual number of  people was changed to  people. The  heroes fought hard for four days and it wasnt until Oct  that they were ordered to withdraw to the British concession. The film was released in Chinese mainland on Aug , with a total box office of . billion yuan. million by Oct . A poster of the film, My People My Homeland. . My People My Homeland Douban Rating . The film expresses peoples feelings for home and country and shows the development of China through hometown stories in five major regions in China. The film was released on Oct , , with a total box office of . billion yuan. million by Nov . A poster of the film, Legend of Deification. . Legend of Deification Douban Rating . Legend of Deification tells the story of the warrior Jiang Ziya, who was demoted to the world at the peak of his life after a feudal war. He lost his divine power and became despised. To return to his original position, Jiang Ziya embarks on a journey to find himself and discover the truth. The film was released on Oct , with a total box office of . billion yuan. million by Nov . A poster of the film, The Sacrifice. .The Sacrifice Douban Rating . In  in the War to Resist US Aggression and Aid Korea entered its final stage, and soldiers needed to rush to Kumsong in the Democratic Peoples Republic of Korea. A volunteer military industry company built a wooden bridge for soldiers to cross the river, which was the only way to pass. However, bombers and fighters equipped by the US military constantly bombarded the wooden bridge and soldiers. But every time the bridge was blown up, volunteers repaired the wooden bridge in just a few hours. The film was released on Oct , with a total box office of . billion yuan.million by Nov . A poster of the film, Leap. . Leap Douban Rating . The film tells the story of Chinas womens volleyball teams life and death battle from its first World Championship in  to the  Rio Olympic Games. It also interprets the legend of several generations of womens volleyball players who have experienced setbacks but remained indomitable and constantly struggling. The film was released on Sept, with a total box office of . million yuan.million by Nov . A poster of the film, Love You Forever. . Love You Forever Douban Rating . A young dancer finds Lin Ges diary while rescuing the elderly theater manager. In the diary, the old man with white hair is like her own bosom friend. To fulfill his promise, Lin Ge goes back to the past, corrects his mistakes and saves his love. However, he is teased by fate and cannot be satisfied. The film was released on Aug , with a total box office of . million yuan. million by Sept . A poster of the film, Tenet. . Tenet Douban Rating . A group of masked bandits want to snatch a suitcase containing mysterious substances. The protagonist and his companions disguised as special police officers also want to snatch the suitcase, but the mission fails. Later, with the help of a female scientist, the protagonist learns about the concept of reverse time from an experiment with a bullet falling back into a guns chamber, and is told that the whole world may disappear due to reverse time technology. The protagonists task is to protect the world from being destroyed by reverse time. The film was released on Sept , with a total box office of . million yuan. million by Oct . A poster of the film, Caught in Time. .Caught in Time Douban Rating . The timeline of Caught in Time dates back to the s. The criminal police officer Zhong Cheng is ordered to hunt down a bandit gang. This group committed a series of robberies, and are welltrained and very disciplined. Zhang Sun, the leader, repeatedly taunts Zhong Cheng. To arrest the criminal group, Zhong leads a police team and vows to fight evil forces to the end. The film was released on Nov , with a total box office of . million yuan. million by Nov . A poster of the film, Coffee or Tea? . Coffee or Tea? Douban Rating . Coffee or Tea??tells the story of three young people with different personalities who return to an ancient village in Yunnan from a big city to start their own business. They understand that ecommerce going to the countryside is not only to sell things in the city to the countryside, but also to sell things from the countryside. They change everyone with sincerity and start an extraordinary journey. The film was released on Oct , with a total box office of . million yuan. million by Nov . A poster of the film, Vanguard. . Vanguard Douban Rating . Qin Guoli, a Chinese businessman, is kidnapped by a mercenary organization in Britain. Qins daughter was also involved in the kidnapping and was pursued and killed. At the critical moment, a vanguard international security team becomes their only hope. The Vanguard carries out a breathtaking rescue, but also finds the mercenary organization behind the criminal syndicate planning a startling plot. The film was released on Sept , with a total box office of . million yuan. million by Nov .