US pandemic woes selfinflicted China Daily editorial
2020/12/22 9:22
? A maskless Santa Claus poses with children from an unmasked group protesting against coronavirus disease COVID restrictions, as Toronto Police said the gathering had not been authorized by the city, in Toronto, Ontario, Canada, Dec , .  TORONTO  Ontario, Canadas most populous province, announced Monday it will go into lockdown on Dec  to curb the fast spread of COVID. Ontario, with a population of . million, is the first province in Canada to announce to new lockdown in the COVID second wave. The lockdown will begin at  am on Dec  and remain in place until at least Jan ,  in the  public health units that comprise southern Ontario. Ontario Premier Doug Ford told a press conference that the virus is spreading rapidly from areas with a high number of cases to areas with fewer cases, and the province needs to preserve capacity in its healthcare system. This difficult action is without a doubt necessary to save lives and prevent our hospitals from being overwhelmed in the coming weeks, he said. Make no mistake, thousands of lives are at stake right now. The lockdown was originally set to begin on Dec  but was pushed back two days by the provincial government on Monday. The provincewide lockdown will look similar to the shutdown back in March, with only essential businesses being allowed to remain open. During the lockdown, no indoor public events or social gatherings will be allowed, except with members of the same household. While the shutdown will begin a day after Christmas, Ford continued urging Ontarians not to gather for the holidays. If we fail to take action now, the consequences will be catastrophic, Ford said. We need to do everything in our power to protect our hospitals and our most vulnerable. Ford said people should only leave home for essential trips such as work or groceries however, the lockdown doesnt include curfews or travel restrictions. As of Monday evening, Canada reported a total of , cases of the COVID and , deaths. Ontario reported , new cases on Monday, bringing the provincial total to ,. The  additional deaths brought the total number of COVIDrelated fatalities since the beginning of the pandemic to ,.