Biden receives first dose of coronavirus vaccine
2020/12/22 8:06
Nurse practitioner Tabe Mase gives US Presidentelect Joe Biden a dose of a vaccine against the coronavirus disease at ChristianaCare Christiana Hospital, in Newark, Delaware, US, Dec , .  WASHINGTON  US Presidentelect Joe Biden on Monday received the first dose of the coronavirus vaccine during a televised event in his home state of Delaware. The yearold former vicepresident was administered the Pfizer BioNTech coronavirus vaccine, which requires a second dose weeks apart to reach  percent efficacy. Bidens vaccination followed that of his wife Jill Biden earlier on the same day. What I want to say is we owe these folks an awful lot, Biden, donning a black mask, said after getting the shot at ChristianaCare Hospital in Newark, Delaware. The scientists and the people who put this together, the front line workers, the people who were the ones who actually did the clinical work, its just amazing. I wish we had time to take you through the whole hospital to see how busy and incredible you all are. And we owe you big. We really do. Biden, who is considered in the highrisk age category for COVID, got inoculated after top US infectiousdisease expert Anthony Fauci strongly recommended that he do so. Fauci has been named Bidens chief medical adviser when the presidentelect takes office in January. Its not clear when the Bidens will receive the second doses. Im looking forward to the second shot. So is Jill, Biden said. Jen Psaki, spokeswoman for the Biden transition team, told reporters Friday that VicePresidentelect Kamala Harris and her husband, Doug Emhoff, would receive their vaccinations next week. VicePresident Mike Pence and second lady Karen Pence, together with Surgeon General Jerome Adams, were administered the vaccine Friday at an oncamera event. The first dose of the Pfizer BioNTech vaccine, the result of USGerman collaboration, began to be injected to health care workers across the United States last week after getting emergency use authorization from the US Food and Drug Administration FDA, and have been delivered to  states, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico. The FDA also gave green light to the Moderna COVID vaccine on Friday. COVID cases and deaths spiked during the ongoing holiday season in the United States, with total infections nearing  million and cumulative deaths around , as of Monday afternoon.