Peoples Republic celebrates its nd anniversary
2021/10/2 7:02
A large crowd of people cheer during the flagraising ceremony in Tiananmen Square in Beijing on Friday in celebration of National Day. ZHU XINGXINCHINA DAILY People from across the country gathered in Tiananmen Square to witness the national flagraising ceremony on Friday morning, the first day of the weeklong National Day holiday. Throughout the country, various activities were organized to celebrate the nd anniversary of the Peoples Republic of China. In Beijing, people were already gathering in Tiananmen Square at  am, many of them holding small national flags, wearing red masks and with national flag patterns painted on their faces. The square was decorated with flower baskets on the theme of Bless the Motherland, and these became a popular background for snapshots. Zhang Yunming, a yearold boy from Xinxiang, Henan province, stood in the first row with his parents. He told Beijing Daily that his family arrived in the capital at  pm on Thursday and headed straight to the square to find a good spot where they could be closer to the flagpole. Ive seen the ceremony on television, but this is the first time Ive ever been so close to the scene. Its definitely going to be spectacular. Im not sleepy at all, he said before the ceremony. Many university students were also drawn to the event. Wang Xinrui, a PhD student at the Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences, told Beijing Daily that generations of revolutionary martyrs sacrificed their lives so Chinese people would have better lives today, and that as a young person, he wanted to make his contribution to the country after he graduates. This year is very special because our Party celebrated its th birthday. As a Party member, I must come here to experience this exciting moment of flagraising, he said. To celebrate National Day, Beijing organized various activities, including flower shows, cultural exhibitions and virtual tours of  public parks. Guangzhou, the capital of Guangdong province, organized traditional lion dances and had national flags raised along the streets to create a festive atmosphere. Jiuzhaigou, a wellknown scenic area in Sichuan province, announced its reopening on Tuesday after being struck by an earthquake in . Local authorities had replanted , trees and restored the damaged ecosystem of more than  hectares. To prepare for the inflow of National Day holiday tourists, Sichuan province announced the opening of  new scenic spots and seven special tours in Jiuzhaigou. Shaanxi province issued , cards on Thursday, each containing  yuan  in coupons for tickets to events and attractions.