Official affirms safety of Chinese vaccines
2020/12/21 17:29
 ChinaRussia Online Media Webinar kicks off in Beijing and Moscow via video link on Dec , . Photo by Zhu Xingxinchinadaily.com.cn Editors note The  ChinaRussia Online Media Webinar was held on Friday, centering on the role of online media in the COVID pandemic. Government officials, experts, scholars, media organizations and representatives from internet companies in the two countries attended the event via video link, and conducted indepth discussions on topics such as international public opinion patterns, media technology innovation and ChinaRussia new media cooperation in the context of the COVID pandemic. Lets see some highlights from the speakers at the webinar. Anisimova Olga right, head of Video Production, Rossia Segodnya International Information Agency. Photo by Zhu Xingxinchinadaily.com.cn People are increasingly turning to reliable news due to the coronavirus pandemic. This requires not only a sense of responsibility, but also response to social concerns in a faster and more accurate way. Between March and September this year, the agencys website produced , videos, and the number of views rose by  percent. Reporting during the pandemic helps to enhance the social responsibility of media. Liu Jiawen, vicepresident of Xinhuanet. Photo by Zhu Xingxinchinadaily.com.cn The media of China and Russia are facing huge challenges and are also ushering in new development opportunities through continuous exchanges. The two sides should jointly advocate the truthfulness and objectivity of news reports, and promote a positive international public opinion environment. The media of the two countries should take the lead in seeking facts, exposing lies, restoring the truth of the pandemic, and enhancing the understanding of the international community toward China and Russia. The understanding of social development and cultural customs can help eliminate possible misunderstandings and prejudices. They could also have more opportunities for joint interview activities to produce more touching stories, further deepening the friendship between Chinese and Russians. Dubover Denis right, dean of the School of Media Communications and Multimedia Technologies at Don State Technical University. Photo by Zhu Xingxinchinadaily.com.cn It is hoped that the youth of both China and Russia can exchange experiences on innovation and development and launch of multimedia education projects. By holding these meetings, China and Russia can cooperate in areas such as animation, games, visual effects, blockchain systems, artificial intelligence and ARVR. It is of great significance to the youth of both countries. Peng Feng, deputy secretarygeneral of the China Internet Development Foundation. Photo by Zhu Xingxinchinadaily.com.cn Online media has become an important bridge linking Chinas antipandemic forces, and inspired the Chinese people to fight against COVID. It remains an important force in the fight against the pandemic by encouraging everyone to participate in pandemic prevention and control. Social media app WeChat, shortvideo platforms Douyin and Kuaishou, the Quoralike question and answer site Zhihu and ecommerce platforms Meituan and JD all have media features to some extent, and cannot be ignored in mass communication. Wang Wenbin, director of Integration Development Center at China Media Group. Photo by Zhu Xingxinchinadaily.com.cn Although the pandemic has brought inconvenience to peoples lives and facetoface dialogue, it demonstrates the important role and great potential of online media in strengthening communication, deepening internal and external cooperation, and building a global community of health for all. During the pandemic, China Media Group introduced slow live broadcast, a special form of communication in the information age. It has a natural sense of reality and presence, displaying every detail of the scene and event development in real time, and forming an immersive experience that deeply touches the hearts of netizens. As part of Chinas national mainstream media, China Media Group will continue to make full use of new technologies, new platforms and new communication methods, and gradually achieve a new path for media integration and development. The group will contribute to the comprehensive strategic partnership between China and Russia. Oksana Zadunayskaya right on video screen, deputy editorinchief of Rossiyskaya Gazeta. Photo by Zhu Xingxinchinadaily.com.cn I dont think the pandemic will affect print media that has already been digitalized. Before the outbreak, the traditional media industry had undergone tremendous changes. And to be more specific, this huge change has enabled the industry to calmly face the crisis brought by the pandemic. Peoples demand for print media has gone through a fundamental change to the consumption of its content, because of the wide application of digital technology in the media industry, such as social networks, information aggregation and recommendation services, applications and instant messaging programs. Therefore, during the pandemic, the top priority of the media industry is no longer the form of the media, but whether the management and editors of publications can quickly respond to changes in the situation and adjust their work policies quickly. Chen Lina, executive editor of Sina Weibo. Photo by Zhu Xingxinchinadaily.com.cn During the pandemic, the value of omnimedia has been fully highlighted. On Weibo, video and live broadcast formed an important part of its omnimedia platform system. But video is not everything. In terms of the consumption demands of media content, omnimediatization is the ultimate goal of a complete media ecosystem. It is not only reflected in the presentation of multimedia content, but also in the dissemination, discussion and interaction of content, including the provision of valuable and diverse information. Meanwhile, diversified and differentiated communication will occupy the main position. The pattern has become more obvious with ordinary netizens and selfmedia providing news clues, professional media giving indepth reports and authorities having the final say. Also, the communication matrix will have more dimensions, and communication on a deep level will be more popular. Denis Perepelitsyn center, head of communications of SPB TV. Photo by Zhu Xingxinchinadaily.com.cn Chinese and Russian TV networks have maintained close cooperation in various forms. SPB TV started to broadcast the English and Chinese version program from CNC World by Xinhua News Agency in  and exclusively broadcast a series of new media programs called Panda Channel in . However, the most valuable part of SinoRussian relations is the friendship during this most difficult time. SPB TV had provided , masks to China. There is a similar Russian proverb a friend in need is a friend indeed. It could be used to describe the bilateral media cooperation between China and Russia. Prokopova left on the video screen,chief of TASS factcheck desk. Photo by Zhu Xingxinchinadaily.com.cn The COVID pandemic has helped online media attract more attention. People search for thelatest news on the internet. The surge of pandemicrelated news brought new challenges for the media. Chinese and Russian media have been working together on many projects during the pandemic, which helps Russian readers learn about Chinas fight against the pandemic. Min Jie, executive deputy editorinchief of China Youth website. Photo provided to chinadaily.com.cn The media should not be absent at the scene when news happens. Facing a major public health incident, such as the COVID pandemic, the media should dispel panic rather than magnify it, should correct prejudice rather than indulge it, and should advance constructive advice rather than stir up emotion or make troubles. Inna Afinogenova right on video screen, deputy head of Online , RT Spanish. Photo by Zhu Xingxinchinadaily.com.cn The COVID pandemic is a brandnew topic for all. Millions of people are very interested in it, because it affects all of us. Therefore, it wasnt difficult to increase page views. Some media took advantage of this opportunity to release some scary, unconfirmed news. That essentially equals viral transmission. Only by being a reliable source can those newlyadded users during the epidemic be kept. The pandemic should not be explained and information spread from the perspective of race by the media. The photos and videos used in news related to the disease are very important, but they must be used in a responsible way to avoid unnecessary panic. The media should check the source of the information and only provide confirmed information.