HK court upholds govt ruling on face masks
2020/12/21 16:32
The Monkey King Golden Mecha, the first series of products inspired by Chinese classic masterpieces launched by LEGO for the Chinese market, receives the best commercial value award. Photo provided to chinadaily.com.cn Shanghai cultural and tourism authority has concluded its annual contest of Shanghai gift designs with winning pieces ranging from LEGO design inspired by the Monkey King, cultural and creative products designed to promote an ancient water town, to delicate Shanghaistyle dim sum.? Organized by Shanghai Municipal Administration of Culture and Tourism, the th Laofengxiang Cup Shanghai Tourism Commodity Design Competition, which ended on Dec , received more than , works, said the organizer.? The Monkey King Golden Mecha, the first series of products inspired by Chinese classic masterpieces launched by LEGO for the Chinese market, received the best commercial value award. While the series of cultural and creative products to promote Zhujiajiao, an ancient water town in Qingpu district, Shanghai, won the best design.?? The series of cultural and creative products to promote Zhujiajiao, an ancient water town in Qingpu district, Shanghai, wins the best design.?Photo provided to chinadaily.com.cn Eight pieces of Smurf customized IP products launched by the Smurfs Theme Park in Shanghai, including dolls, puzzles, bubble machine, refrigerator sticker, commemorative coin, and key chain, received the most popular award. The competition also attracted many innovative delicacies presented as traditional dim sum gift boxes by classic food brands. To promote the annual event, the organizers also set up the official account of Shanghai gifts on shortvideo platform Douyin, Chinese version of TikTok, for public feedbacks and exchanges to the creation of Shanghai gifts. Eight pieces of Smurf customized IP products launched by the Smurfs Theme Park in Shanghai receive the most popular award.?Photo provided to chinadaily.com.cn Handmade soaps are awarded Shanghai gifts.?Photo provided to chinadaily.com.cn Drip coffee bags featuring coffee beans from Ethiopia and designs of Shanghai Tower image are recommended as Shanghai gifts.?Photo provided to chinadaily.com.cn A mug themed on Chinese character happiness wins recommendation. Photo provided to chinadaily.com.cn A package of silk masks wins recommendation. Photo provided to chinadaily.com.cn