Truth should be focus of Chinese, Russian online media, says head of China Daily Website
2020/12/21 7:59
MA XUEJINGCHINA DAILY Recent good news on vaccines for COVID brings us closer to ending the acute phase of this terrible pandemic. But the sense of collective relief must be accompanied by a healthy dose of reality. While the scientific community awaits detailed data from leading vaccine developers, several questions remain. Notably, it is still unclear how long immunity would last and whether it will prevent people already infected from transmitting the virus to others. This means that mitigation measuresmaskwearing, social distancing, avoiding large crowds, and practicing good hygienewill likely be necessary in the foreseeable future. Experts are urging the public to continue following the precautionary measures for another reason. Even if the vaccine proves effective and is made available to the public today, getting it to everyone who needs it will not happen overnight. Billions of doses must reach billions of peoplein every country. With competition for limited resources already impacting pandemic response, highincome countries have been accused of securing disproportionate amounts of limited vaccine supply for their own populationa case of vaccine nationalism. All countries, especially those with fewer resources, must have rapid and equitable access to COVID vaccines. Not only is it a moral imperative, global economic recovery depends on it. This is the motivation behind the AsiaPacific Vaccine Access Facility, a  billion initiative launched recently by the Asian Development Bank to help its developing members procure and deliver safe and effective vaccines against COVID. Another initiative, the COVAX Advance Market Commitmentcoled by Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance, the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations, and the World Health Organizationis gearing up to provide  eligible lowand middleincome countries with access to successful vaccine candidates. It aims to deliver  billion doses of vaccine by the end of . Key and vulnerable populations, including health workers and the elderly, are slated to receive vaccines first through COVAX, and the AMC will provide doses for up  percent of the population of participating countries. But this doesnt account for how and when the rest of the population in eligible countries will have access to the vaccines, or how other countries mostly middleincome countries not participating in COVAX will access them. Perhaps more significantly, rollingout the vaccines worldwide requires coordinated action within and across several complex systemsfrom manufacturing and storage, to shipping and distributionand will need unprecedented global collaboration, including robust privatepublic sector partnerships. Furthermore, health systems must adapt existing delivery strategies and information systems designed for child immunization to effectively distribute the vaccines among adults. The supply chains and health system capacity required to produce and distribute COVID vaccines will be staggering. We can draw useful lessons from how some parts of Asia and the Pacific have used robust public health systems and innovative approaches to contain the spread of COVID. The Republic of Koreas success with testing and digital contact tracing may enable it to quickly develop digital vaccine tracking systems, and Vietnams targeted measures to maintain public confidence and prevent widespread COVID outbreaks may help to engender public trust in the safety of a vaccine. And Thailands use of village health volunteers to support the tracing of active cases can be mobilized to support vaccination of rural populations. The following actions should be taken by countries to ensure they are prepared to prioritize, introduce, and deliver COVID vaccines. They should adopt a wholeofgovernment approach to improve vaccine delivery planning. Every aspect of successful COVID response in the AsiaPacific regionfrom the development of test kits to the designation of treatment facilitieshas involved partnerships across society. The delivery of vaccines should be no exception to this arrangement. The countries should engage key stakeholders to plan scenarios, develop a national vaccine strategy, and organize operational aspects of vaccine introduction. The countries in the region should agree on the vaccine priority line. Who should receive the first doses of the vaccine is a complex question. So countries should assess how to identify priority groups based on their country context and specific epidemiology. They should also model different scenarios for vaccinating the general population and set expectations accordingly. Moreover, the countries should develop communication strategies to improve vaccine uptake. Widespread campaigns will be necessary to educate the public about the benefits of vaccination, especially because many reports say some communities are hesitant to be inoculated. With vaccine coverage essential to achieve herd immunity, developing and implementing clear advocacy and communication strategies will be critical. The countries should also strengthen vaccination infrastructure. Virtually every country in the world will have to strengthen and expand its existing vaccination infrastructure. For example, the Pfizer vaccine requires storage at temperatures below minus  degrees Celsius. Additionally, temperaturecontrolled logistics and pointofcare cold chain infrastructure are unreliable in many rural areas in lowand middleincome countries. So there is a need to strengthen vaccine storage, distribution systems and facilities, safety monitoring systems, and ways to track every dose that has been administered. Vaccines do not save lives vaccinations do. But vaccination in some select countries will not end the acute phase of the pandemic. Only timely vaccination in all countries will do that. So all countries need to start preparing now. The views dont necessarily reflect those of China Daily. The author is chief of the Asian Development Banks Health Sector Group.