HKs Court of Final Appeal upholds  antimask law
2020/12/21 7:24
Beyond Beef, a product from US producer Beyond Meat, is used to make pasta, burgers and other dishes. CHINA DAILY Vegetablebased alternatives increasingly popular At the end of this month, a plantbased meat substitute producer with headquarters in the United States will complete construction of its first factory in China, which is due to start production early next year. Beyond Meat is the first international plantbased meat brand to open a factory in the country. Located in Jiaxing, Zhejiang province, it is one of the worlds largest and most technologically advanced factories for such products. The company plans to start building a second facility in Zhejiang next year. As the name suggests, plantbased meat substitutes are made from plants and especially designed to look, taste and cook like real meat. These vegetablebased alternatives, which are growing in popularity, can be made into burgers, nuggets and sausages, for example. Candy Chan, China general manager of Beyond Meat, said the company views Asia as a key region for longterm growth. With global meat consumption rising, there is a growing demand for more plantbased meat in China. This provides a unique opportunity for Beyond Meat, as Chinese consumers are becoming more conscious of the meat they eat, she said. In addition to international plantbased meat alternative brands, more local startups have emerged this year, tapping into a growing market in China amid rising consumer appetite for healthy and nutritious food. From fast food chains to Michelinstarred restaurants, from supermarkets to online shopping platforms, more Chinese customers are being attracted to plantbased diets. Chinese meat substitute brands are focusing more on customized and innovative products with a range of flavors. According to a report published this month by research company MarketsandMarkets, the global plantbased meat market is estimated to be worth . billion this year and is projected to reach . billion by . The report said that in the Asia Pacific region, plantbased food products are gaining popularity as more people adopt healthy lifestyles and consumers opt for natural ingredients. Since entering the Chinese market in April, Beyond Meat has expanded nationwide. Coffee chain Starbucks added plantbased beef lasagna produced with Beyond Beef, a product made by Beyond Meat, to its menus, while two months later, fastfood chain KFC China launched trials of its first Beyond Beef burger. In July, Beyond Meat launched its burgers in retail outlets, including Metro and Freshippo, while in November, Beyond Pork was releaseda new product created especially for the Chinese market. A customer samples meatballs made from OmniPork produced by OmniFoods, a meat substitute company in Hong Kong. CHINA DAILY Joint efforts According to Agricultural Outlook , published by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development and the Food and Agriculture Organization of the UN, pork consumption in China last year reached . million metric tons, one of the highest rates globally. Chan said, Beyond Pork allows Chinese consumers to enjoy more of their favorite traditional dishes featuring pork, such as dumplings, mapo tofu tofu in a spicy sauce, Beijing fried sauce noodles, lions head meatballs large pork meatballs and xiaolongbao steamed meat buns. Beyond Pork is a global collaboration between Beyond Meat teams in Los Angeles and Shanghai, and we conducted multiple tests in China to get direct customer feedback to perfect the product. Chan added that Beyond Pork delivers the meaty taste and texture craved by Chinese customers, but with about  percent less saturated and total fat than that found in typical minced pork. Ingredients such as rice and soybeans offer rich sources of protein, with . grams per gram serving. She said the company is targeting mainstream customers who love eating meat but are increasingly aware of associated health, climate, environmental and animal welfare concerns. Plantbased meats offer a host of environmental benefits, requiring less water and land to produce than meat derived from the farming of animals, Chan said. In , a study titled Life Cycle Analysis conducted by the University of Michigan in the US found that producing a Beyond Burger patty uses  percent less water,  percent less land,  percent less energy and emits  percent fewer greenhouse gas emissions compared with producing a regular gram beef burger patty. In April, OmniFoods, a plantbased meat substitute company in Hong Kong, announced two new productsthe OmniPork Luncheon and OmniPork Strip. David Yeung, the companys founder, said these products are tailormade for Asian consumers who crave luncheon meat. According to a report published by Global Info Research in August, annual worldwide sales of luncheon meat are expected to reach . billion by , up from . billion last year. Five of the eight markets with the highest luncheon meat sales last yearChina, Southeast Asia, Japan, South Korea and Indiaare located in the AsiaPacific region. In Beijing in September, Italian restaurant Bottega was awarded the Top  Pizzeria in Asia and Top  Pizzeria in the World Outside Italy awards by the rating organization  Top Pizza. These achievements accompanied the launch of a plantbased sausage pizza by the restaurant to provide a meatfree choice for vegetarian customers. Details of the product were not placed on the formal menu, but were printed on a flyer hanging on a wall at the eatery. However, Nana Shinohara, cofounder of Bottega, said few diners order the new arrival maybe because most customers who come to our restaurant are looking for traditional meat. Shinohara said the restaurant team tried to find a vegan cheese to make a pizza, but such cheese is far too expensive. After trying different plantbased meat, they decided to use minced pork from ZRou, a Chinese brand founded in Shanghai last year. To date, ZRou only has two productsplantbased minced pork and ground pork. It uses soybean, konjac a herb, coconut oil and shiitake mushrooms as its main ingredients. Franklin Yao, the brands founder, said minced pork is an iconic ingredient in Chinese cuisine, as it is used in many dishes, including mapo tofu, Sichuan noodles with peppery sauce and dumplings, as well as in Western cuisine such as pasta and pizza. Netizen Xiaokeai Liga shared her experience of cooking minced ZRou pork on the social commerce platform Xiaohongshu, also known as Little Red Book. She said the flavor of beans could still be detected, so users should not be stingy in adding seasoning to the plantbased meat. To taste like traditional meat, it has to be fried, and I made fried meat steak with a black pepper flavor, which tasted good, she posted. Beyond Meat holds a tasting event in Shanghai last month, at which a variety of foods made from plantbased meat was on offer. CHINA DAILY Startups financed Li Dong, chef at the Jing Yaa Tang restaurant in Beijing, which boasts a Michelin star, is considering creating a vegetarian menu using plantbased meat. He uses ZRou products to make dishes. Plantbased meat products are more suitable for panfrying or deepfrying at high temperatures to produce an authentic flavor, Li said. They are not that suitable for boiling, because the flavor of beans can be detected, he added. Li said plantbased meat can be made into a range of creative dishes by chefs specializing in Chinese cuisine, which is rich in flavor that can mask the taste of beans. China has a long history of making and eating meat substitutes made from soybeans, which are known as vegetarian meat in traditional Chinese cuisine. While meat substitutes are nothing new to Chinese customers, plantbased meat startups are relatively new arrivals in the countrymany of them founded only last year and collaborating with catering brands on a large scale this year. Most entrepreneurs specializing in plantbased meat do not have their own facilities and are collaborating with traditional vegetarian meat factories. In Beijing last month, Mexican restaurant Q Mex Bar Grill launched a vegan menu in collaboration with Zhen Meat, a Chinese plantbased meat maker founded in the city in August last year. According to Beijing Daily, the restaurants purchasing costs for Zhen Meats products are about the same as those for regular frozen beef. They are also three to four times lower than those charged by international brands Beyond Meat and Impossible Foods. Mainly using protein from peas, Zhen Meat focuses chiefly on Chinese cuisine. For MidAutumn Festival, it launched a plantbased meat mooncake, while two new products, plantbased fried pork and cray tail, were introduced in June. Customized and innovative products are the highlight for Chinese plantbased meat startups. Starfield, a Chinese company producing such meat in Shenzhen, Guangdong province, is popular for its customized items made in collaboration with restaurants featuring different styles of cuisine. Such items range from plantbased, strongsmelling preserved bean curd, a popular snack in Hunan province, to Chinesestyle barbeque. In October, Starfield collaborated with fried chicken fast food chain Dicos to launch a plantbased chicken burger in the latters , restaurants nationwide. The burgers cost  yuan , about the same as a regular fried chicken burger at Dicos. Starfields cofounder Liu Shuman said that on the first five days, more than , of the burgers were sold. Liu used to run a WeChat account to popularize knowledge and information about vegetarian diets. She also ran a vegetarian restaurant in Dali, Yunan province, in , but the business failed to attract enough diners. I think that in running a restaurant, I failed to fulfill my goal of making a large social impact on vegetarian diets, Liu said. However, when I learned about plantbased meat, I realized this could provide an opportunity to start changing peoples diets. Liu joined Starfield in October last year, and the first product was launched later that month. She said Starfields research and development department comprises more than  experts, including scientists specializing in vegetable protein and flavors, senior food engineers and chefs devoted to Western and Chinese cuisine. One of our aims is to make plantbased meat more delicious, she said. We use molecular sensory technology to imitate the flavor of chicken or beef, she said, adding that the main ingredients of the meat include soybeans, coconut oil, red beets and wheat. Liu feels that the development of plantbased meat products is still in its infancy and that there is plenty of room to improve products currently on the market. She believes there are two research and development goals for such products. One is to imitate a certain type of meat, while the other is to create products with a more authentic meatlike experience for customers. Starfield has attracted three rounds of financing within a year, receiving more than  million yuan in one of them during September. According to Liu, the company is also building its own production factory. I think the attraction of the Chinese market is that it has the speed of a rocket. For example, it takes a product from an international plantbased meat producer nine to  years to reach a major catering brand, but for Starfield, it only took about half a year for our first product to reach a major brand, she said. Starfield products are sold in more than , restaurants in China, and the company is aiming to collaborate with over  percent of all major catering brands by . The potential of the Chinese market is huge and we have already made some inroads to vegetarian diets. We are not obsessed with vegan or vegetarian, but aim to provide the public with a meatless choice, Liu said. Starfield is working mostly with restaurants. However, Liu said that when customers start to notice plantbased meat is on the menu and want to try to cook it at home or buy some readytoeat products, then it will be time to enter the retail market. Tomacado, a restaurant chain in Beijing, makes meatballs in three flavors using plantbased meat and pairs them with strawberries and pineapples. CHINA DAILY Meatballs launched According to Kong Jie, who owns Tomacado, a restaurant chain in Beijing, the pandemic has reminded people of the importance of sustainable development. With this in mind, on March , her team decided to introduce plantbased meatballs to the menu to mark Arbor Day, urging diners to eat less meat to help reduce carbon emissions. The meatballs are produced in collaboration with Starfield. We launched the meatballs in three flavors and paired them with strawberry and pineapple to represent the spring, with the aim of bringing more joy and hope to our customers, Kong said. She added that the meatballs have been relatively popular, with nearly half the customers ordering them on launch day. Our customers are mostly female office workers, who are willing to embrace sustainable development, lowcarbon environmental protection and modern technology. They have taken to the new product quite well, she said. Kong thinks the catering industry is moving in a more healthy, sustainable direction. CHINA DAILY Plantbased meat in China has a new role on the dining table. It still needs perfecting in many respects, including safety, stabilization and flavors. As restaurateurs, we should observe and think from the customers viewpoint and try to push technical improvements for diners, she said.