Macao marks st return anniversary amid epidemic control
2020/12/20 16:35
Macao SAR Chief Executive Ho Iatseng attends a?reception?to mark the st anniversary of Macaos return to the motherland on Dec , .  MACAO  Chinas Macao Special Administrative Region held a series of events on Sunday to mark the st anniversary of Macaos return to the motherland and the establishment of the Macao SAR with epidemic control measures. At around  am Sunday on the Golden Lotus Square, the national flag of the Peoples Republic of China and the flag of the Macao SAR were raised to the national anthem in front of an audience of around  people wearing face masks. The Peoples Liberation Army Garrison in Macao also held a flagraising ceremony in the morning. A reception was held subsequently at the ChinaPortuguesespeaking Countries Commercial and Trade Service Platform Complex, with over  attendees including government officials and others. Macao SAR Chief Executive Ho Iatseng said at the reception that during the past year, which had been an extremely difficult and extraordinary one, Macao had implemented strict prevention and control policies on COVID, leaving no deaths and achieving high recovery rates. Macao would further its epidemic control efforts in the coming year while adopting active fiscal policies and timely measures to push for economic recovery, provide targeted support for small and mediumsized enterprises, ensure employment, and achieve pluralistic development of the local economy, Ho noted. He also said that the SAR would further participate in building the GuangdongHong KongMacao Greater Bay Area and the Belt and Road Initiative in a practical and orderly manner. Efforts would be made to continuously enhance Macaos role of facilitating the countrys domestic circulation and linking the domestic and international dual circulation, he added. China has unveiled its dual circulation development pattern, where internal and external markets can reinforce each other, with the domestic market as the mainstay. Also on Sunday, the Macao Post and Telecommunications Bureau offered to the public a commemorative postmarking service, at a temporary counter at Macao Posts Senado Square headquarters. Commemorative envelopes to mark the anniversary were also available for purchase. An exhibition showcasing , potted chrysanthemums is also open to the public until Jan , . However, after careful assessment, the government announced earlier this month that it will not organize the fireworks show in celebration of the return anniversary to avoid crowding and reduce pertinent risks.