Swedish king criticizes countrys COVID pandemic strategy in speech
2020/12/18 16:15
A person waring a protective mask collects coronavirus self tests from people in cars at a testing site in the car park of Svagertorp railway station, amid the coronavirus disease COVID outbreak, in Malmo, Sweden, Nov , .  STOCKHOLM  Swedens King Carl XVI Gustaf has criticized the Swedish governments handling of the COVID pandemic, Swedish Television reported on Thursday. I believe we have failed. We have a high number of deaths and that is terrible, the king said in an annual review known as the year with the Swedish Royal Family, which will be broadcast on Swedish Television next week. Its been an awful year, the king said in the program, recalling the grief and the frustration among many families and also many business owners who are on their knees and may lose their companies. The Swedish people have suffered enormously under difficult circumstances, he said. His son Prince Carl Philip and daughterinlaw Princess Sofia tested positive for COVID last month after displaying flulike symptoms. The King also said he felt for the families who were unable to say farewell to their dying relatives, calling the experience heavy and traumatic. Asked for his response to the kings statement, Swedens state epidemiologist at the Public Health Agency Anders Tegnell said he had no comment. It is deeply regrettable that many people have died but whether or not we have failed is a question. I will have to leave to those who will review all of this in the future, Tegnell said Thursday at a press conference. Swedish Television published the extract from its forthcoming royal review program just two days after the governmentappointed corona commission issued a harsh verdict against Swedens inadequate efforts to protect the elderly. Nearly half of the countrys COVID deaths have occurred in care homes. At a press conference on Thursday, Prime Minister Stefan Lofven conceded that the elderly care system lacked resources in response to the pandemic and said that Sweden will start vaccinating highrisk groups some time between Dec  and Dec . As of Thursday, Sweden registered , COVID cases, with the death toll reaching ,, while , patients have been admitted to ICUs throughout the pandemic in the country, according to the Public Health Agency.