Chinese shadow puppetry
2020/12/18 10:40
During the th FiveYear Plan period, the biohealth industry in Zhongguancun Science Park proliferated. As of , Zhongguancun is home to more than , companies in the biological health field, with an industrial scale of . billion yuan  . billion, a yearonyear increase of . percent. These enterprises research and development expenditures reached . billion yuan, a fouryear compound annual growth rate of more than  percent. Meanwhile, patent applications in such fields amount to ,, a fouryear compound annual growth rate of . percent. Independent innovation enters the harvest season A yearold man with fractured bones had successful orthopedic surgery this September. The assisting doctor was an orthopedic surgical robot independently developed by Tianzhihang called Tian Ji. Orthopedic surgery requires exceptionally high precision. The assistance of surgical robots can improve the accuracy, shorten the operation time and realize smaller wounds, less bleeding and faster recovery. Tian Ji orthopedic surgical robot performs surgery for patients. Photo provided to chinadaily.com.cn As a pioneer of domestic surgical robots, TINAVI has developed the only orthopedic surgical robot in the world capable of performing traumatic orthopedics and spine surgery. The robot has completed more than , surgeries in more than  medical institutions across the country, benefiting many patients. In July , TINAVI was listed on the Science and Technology Innovation Board, becoming the first domestically listed surgical robot company. In Zhongguancun, a group of innovative medical device RD companies C including Sinovation, Remebot and Shurui C is also making steady progress on the journey of domestic substitution of highend medical devices. In addition to intelligent surgical robots, the development of innovative drugs is another eyecatching one. For a long time, the anticancer drugs marketed in China were primarily imports, but a new anticancer drug born in Zhongguancun successfully addresses this situation. After more than , days and nights of research and development, BeiGenes selfdeveloped BTK inhibitor zanubrutinib was approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration to be listed on the US market as Chinas first selfdeveloped anticancer drug in November . As a targeted medicine, Zebutinib can treat a variety of Bcell malignancies, including mantle cell lymphoma, and  percent of the treated patients realized overall remission. A schematic diagram of the crystal structure of Zebutinib and BTK protein complex. Photo provided to chinadaily.com.cn Zhongguancun enterprises have mastered technological leadership in many fields, such as targeted drugs, new combined vaccines, antibody preparation and interventional implant material technology. Huahui Health, which focuses on drugs to treat liver diseases, has developed a new antihepatitis B monoclonal antibody HH with global intellectual property rights and is regarded as the gospel of hepatitis B patients. Bosis Healing independently develops noncrosslinked SIS biological materials, becoming the second company in the world to realize the industrialization and fullline product layout of such materials. Lepu Medical launched a fully degradable stent in , which is Chinas only absorbable stent product in use. By November , Zhongguancun had been approved to produce seven Class I new drugs, and nearly  companies Class I new drugs have entered Phase II clinical trials. A total of  innovative medical devices have been approved, accounting for about onethird of those in China. Hardcore industrial cluster In , Xie Jiangbing, the founder of Eyebright, settled in Zhongguancun and devoted himself to the RD of intraocular lenses, a biological material required for eye surgery. After four years of exploration, Eyebright has created a domestic soft folding intraocular lens with independent intellectual property rights. The product was recognized internationally as a thirdgeneration aspheric technology and quickly entered highend medical devices with its high quality and low price, bringing light and hope to countless cataract patients. Eyebright thirdgeneration proming aspheric toric intraocular lens. Photo provided to chinadaily.com.cn There are south and north biohealth industry clusters in Zhongguancun the southern highend industrial base with Yizhuang and Daxing biomedical bases as the core, and the northern RD and innovation center with Zhongguancun Life Science Park as the center. In the national biomedical park appraisal by the Biological Center of the Ministry of Science and Technology, the Zhongguancun Science Park has ranked first in the country for many years in terms of comprehensive competitiveness. From laboratory to market, it takes considerable effort for a drug to finally reach patients. Although many companies have RD capabilities, they lack development and production capabilities. JOINN Biologics is a CDMO company specializing in the development of biological drugs. It can provide onestop services for new drug RD companies from cell line construction, feasibility studies, quality testing and pilot trials to commercial production. Now, RD companies only need to provide a molecular sequence, and we can complete the entire process before the launch of a new drug, said Chen Baolu, global chief operating officer of JOINN Biologics. Shuimu Medical has built the first domestic marketoriented professional service platform for the entire chain of medical device testing services, which provides medical device RD companies with nonfunctional testing services. It offers professional services for domestic medical device products under research. With  technology transfer service platforms,  open laboratories,  biohealth field incubators and six biomedicine characteristic parks, the Zhongguancun biohealth industry provides companies settled in the park with comprehensive services, including incubation, transformation, RD, pilot and OEM. Innovation empowers smart medical system In the field of smart medical care, Zhongguancun has also made effective explorations in telemedicine, AI diagnosis, medical voice input, disease risk prediction and contactless services. InferVision is one of the earliest companies in China to apply artificial intelligence to the field of medical imaging. Having obtained qualifications for market access in major medical markets, it is also the only AI medical company in the world with the four major certifications of China NMPA, EU CE, Japan PMDA and US FDA. During the outbreak of COVID, InferVision took the lead in launching an AI product for the disease in China C the pneumonia intelligent auxiliary screening and epidemic monitoring system, which was applied on the frontlines of the battle in Wuhan. Since then, this A.I. product has landed in more than  domestic hospitals to fight the epidemic and entered hospitals in more than  countries, including nations in North America, Europe and Asia. InferVisions Intelligent auxiliary screening and epidemic monitoring system interface for COVID Photo provided to chinadaliy.com.cn Unisounds Intelligent Voice Electronic Medical Record System presents another example of crossborder integration. The system was brought to the frontline by the first batch of medical staff in Shanghai to support Wuhan this February, bringing convenience to medical staff wearing thick masks, rubber gloves and heavy protective clothing. Subsequently, Unisound successively launched a range of AI products such as epidemic prevention robots, contactless smart elevators and intelligent online education solutions, which were applied in Beijing, Shanghai, Hubei, Shandong, Fujian, Guangxi, Sichuan and other places. As of November , Zhongguancun had obtained four Class III medical device registration certificates in AI medicine, ranking first in the country. During the th FiveYear Plan period, the biohealth companies in the Zhongguancun Science Park will make further breakthroughs in technology products, adding more prosperity to the park.