Singers from across the world flock to Jincheng for final contest concert
2020/12/18 8:34
Ten young artists from seven countries perform at the iSing concert in Jincheng on Dec .Photo provided to China Daily Renowned artist Tian Haojiang sang lyrics inspired by Tang Dynasty  poems as he kickstarted the iSing International Young Artists Concert in Jincheng city in the southeast of Shanxi province, on Dec . The iSing concert is Chinas first event for young singers from across the world. The event aims to promote international cultural exchanges and help traditional Chinese culture go global. Tian is one of the founders. He is a native of Jincheng and he said he was glad to be in the city again. The last time I was in Jincheng was  years ago when I sang at a solo concert here, Tian said. Fifteen years has passed and I found Im still emotionally attached to this city, although great changes have taken place. With  young artists from seven countries including China, the United States, Russia and Mexico singing awardwinning songs by composers from different countries, the concert in Jincheng was the final of the monthslong event. Over the past seven months, the event involved the participation of  young composers from  countries. Fourteen composers from eight countries have won different awards. As required by the events organizers, the songs have been written based on Tang Dynasty poems. However, it was not an easy job for the international artists to sing in China as the world is still being challenged by the COVID pandemic. The foreign artists arrived in China in early November. After two weeks of quarantine, they performed at a concert in Suzhou, Jiangsu province, on Nov . The artists said they were happy in China, where the virus is well under control. Only in China can we take off our masks and sing as loudly as we can, one of the artists said. After the Jincheng concert, the artists visited local attractions including Huangcheng Xiangfu to experience Chinese culture by themselves. Huangcheng Xiangfu, which literally means imperial prime ministers residence, is located in Huangcheng village of Yangcheng county in Jincheng. It was the residence of Chen Tingjing, a renowned politician of the Qing Dynasty . Covering , square meters and consisting of  courtyards and  rooms, the site is the largest ancient residential complex in Jincheng. Xie Yan contributed to this story.