Pandemicdelayed Expo  Dubai opens to public
2021/10/1 17:16
Photo taken on Sept ,  shows the opening ceremony of the Expo  Dubai in Dubai, the United Arab Emirates. Postponed due to the COVID pandemic, the Expo  Dubai will be held from Oct ,  to March , .  DUBAI  Following a yearlong delay due to the COVID pandemic, the muchawaited Expo  Dubai opened its doors to visitors here on Friday. Under the theme of Connecting Minds and Creating the Future, about  exhibitors are vying to present their best at the hectare expo site, about the size of  football pitches, located in the United Arab Emirates tourism and business hub of Dubai. Covering an area of , square meters, the China Pavilion is one of the largest at the expo. Featuring a lanternshaped design, the pavilion is called The Light of China, symbolizing hope and a bright future. The pavilion showcases Chinas newest achievements in information technology, artificial intelligence and space exploration. As the first World Expo held in the Middle East, the sixmonth event is expected to attract some  million visitors. Due to the ongoing impact of the COVID, the expo is being held under strict precautionary measures. Visitors aged  and above are required to present a vaccination certificate or a negative PCR test result before entering the site. Maskwearing and social distancing are also required. The United Arab Emirates has witnessed a decreasing number of COVID cases in recent weeks, with daily new cases remaining under  over the past few days. More than  million vaccine doses have been administered in the country. Photo taken on Sept ,  shows the opening ceremony of the Expo  Dubai in Dubai, the United Arab Emirates. Postponed due to the COVID pandemic, the Expo  Dubai will be held from Oct ,  to March , .  Photo taken on Sept ,  shows the opening ceremony of the Expo  Dubai in Dubai, the United Arab Emirates. Postponed due to the COVID pandemic, the Expo  Dubai will be held from Oct ,  to March , .  Photo taken on Sept ,  shows the opening ceremony of the Expo  Dubai in Dubai, the United Arab Emirates. Postponed due to the COVID pandemic, the Expo  Dubai will be held from Oct ,  to March , .  Photo taken on Sept ,  shows the opening ceremony of the Expo  Dubai in Dubai, the United Arab Emirates. Postponed due to the COVID pandemic, the Expo  Dubai will be held from Oct ,  to March , .  Photo taken on Sept ,  shows the opening ceremony of the Expo  Dubai in Dubai, the United Arab Emirates. Postponed due to the COVID pandemic, the Expo  Dubai will be held from Oct ,  to March , . 