Prada holds event to highlight ocean sustainability, protection
2020/12/17 10:37
? People wearing protective face masks walk outside Termini train station on the day the government lays out a plan for mass coronavirus disease COVID vaccinations and restrictions over the Christmas period, in Rome, on Dec , .  ROME  Italian authorities approved a national plan for COVID mass vaccination on Wednesday after a meeting between the central government and regional governors. The announcement came from Italys Extraordinary Commissioner for the Coronavirus Emergency Domenico Arcuri, after the StateRegions Conference, which comprises cabinet ministers and governors of the  Italian regions, approved the mass vaccination program. The plan will begin with population groups considered at highest risk for COVID, such as medical staff and the elderly, and will later be expanded to the general public, Arcuris office said, adding that the vaccination will be free and not compulsory. The vaccination campaign will start with the first ,, doses of the COVID vaccine distributed by pharmaceutical company Pfizer, Arcuri said in a statement. Italy will receive the vaccines through a centralized procurement system of the European Union, according to the authorization of the European Medicines Agency EMA. If everything goes as expected, the first doses will be given to citizens in Italy immediately after Christmas, the commissioner said. In the following days, the first session of mass vaccination will involve ... health and welfare workers, the staff of public and private hospitals, guests and staff of nursing homes, he added. The stateregions conference also approved the distribution plan for the first . million doses across the regions, based on their COVID situation. The second batch of ,, doses will arrive in Italy in the following weeks, according to the commissioners office. On Wednesday, Italy registered , new daily cases, bringing the total infections to ,, and with  new deaths reported, the nationwide death toll amounted to ,, according to the Health Ministry. Active infections in the country dropped by , to , in the last  hours, while recoveries grew by , to ,,.