Xi Focus The Chinese way of fighting coronavirus for safety, growth
2021/9/30 10:55
Deliveryman Li Yang R passes a package to a resident at a residential community in Bayan county of Harbin, Northeast Chinas Heilongjiang province, Sept , .  BEIJING  For over a year, the ravaging pandemic has put policymakers worldwide under the same but unprecedented test how to manage the intricate balance between safeguarding public health and mitigating the economic impacts. Once the worst hit by the coronavirus but now one of the very first to have contained the epidemic and restarted the economy, China has had a clear and proven solution for the dilemma. Under the leadership of the Communist Party of China CPC Central Committee with Xi Jinping at its core, the country has walked a fine line between virus control and economic reopening, saved lives at all costs, fostered opportunities from the crisis, opened its door wider despite strict COVID containment, and coordinated nearterm tasks and longterm goals. Efficient control It took China only six weeks this summer to contain a round of COVID resurgence attributable to the Delta variant, which first emerged in the airport of Nanjing in eastern China and quickly spread to multiple other cities. Such quick and effective responses have been an essential part of the Chinese way to tame the virus. Back in , Wuhan, capital of Hubei province, closed outbound traffic for  days from Jan. ,  to stem the spread of the virus. Xi, general secretary of the CPC Central Committee, said making the decision required enormous political courage. But time calls for resolute action. Otherwise, there would be trouble, he said. Thanks to strict and effective control measures, the virus spread in China was contained in just over a month. In around two months, the daily increase in domestic coronavirus cases fell to single digits. And within approximately three months, a decisive victory was secured in the antiCOVID battle in Wuhan and the whole of Hubei. Since then, only sporadic outbreaks occurred in China, and they were all quickly brought under control thanks to accumulated experience and targeted measures. Xi urged making the best strategic choices while weighing up the pros and cons. The remarks provide significant guidance in balancing virus control and resumption of economic activities. Chinas targeted COVID prevention and control measures have proved effective. Domestically, authorities quickly clamped down on local flareups with measures like mass nucleic acid testing and targeted lockdowns, which always led to a quick and distinct downward trend in new infections while minimizing the impact on peoples daily lives. In September, high schools, primary schools, and kindergartens in most regions started the new semester on time, and crossprovincial travel also resumed in most areas. China managed to maintain a fair number of international flights while strictly containing the spread of COVID by introducing a reward and suspension mechanism. A flight suspension will be carried out if the number of passengers testing positive on the flight reaches a certain number. The country currently sees more than  international passenger flights and around , international cargo flights every week, even though it suspended more than  inbound passenger flights since the reward and suspension mechanism was introduced in June last year. The country has so far reported more than , confirmed COVID cases and around , deaths. In comparison, the United States has recorded over  million COVID cases, with about , deaths, according to the latest data. Despite some criticism that China has invested too much in epidemic prevention and control, the country has achieved remarkable results at a relatively low cost. China was the worlds only major economy to post positive growth last year. Its GDP expanded . percent year on year in the first half H of , putting the average H growth for the past two years at . percent, said the National Bureau of Statistics. Partly due to the need to cope with unusual circumstances, the country raised its deficittoGDP ratio in . Still, the overall deficit as a share of GDP in  for China was lower than the average level for advanced economies, according to a report released by the International Monetary Fund in April this year. China has gradually found a balance between preventing epidemics and promoting development, two seemingly conflicting goals. An elderly COVID patient who is about to be discharged from a healthcare center salutes medical workers in Wuhan, Central Chinas Hubei province, March , .  People first, life first On May , International Nurses Day, yearold Qu Wanfang, accompanied by his family, expressed his gratitude in person to the medical staff of Taihe Hospital in Shiyan city, Hubei province. Qu was diagnosed with COVID in February last year. Six critically ill notices were issued by the hospital to his family. Thanks to the combination of traditional Chinese medicine and Western medicine, psychological counseling, and nutritional support, he survived after  days of treatment by a special team of nine medical workers. Whatever was available to save his life was used, said Luo Jie, the hospitals president. What is people first? So many people worked together to save a single patient. This, in essence, embodies doing whatever it takes to save lives, said Xi during his deliberations with fellow deputies from Inner Mongolia autonomous region at the th National Peoples Congress on May , . In Hubei, more than , elderly COVID patients over  years old like Qu recovered, among whom the oldest was . The per capita treatment cost of a COVID patient in China is , yuan, and the treatment cost for a severe patient even exceeds , yuan. By the end of June, . billion yuan of medical expenses had been settled for hospitalized COVID patients nationwide, of which . billion yuan was covered by medical insurance. More than . billion COVID vaccine doses have been administered free of charge across the country so far. Regardless of cost, everything makes way for life. This is the embodiment of the peopleoriented thinking of traditional Chinese culture and highlights the peoplecentered governance philosophy of the Communist Party of China, said Wang Wen, executive dean of the Chongyang Institute for Financial Studies, Renmin University of China. People are seen at the Medical Equipment and Healthcare Products exhibition area during the third China International Import Expo CIIE in Shanghai, East China, Nov , .  Turning challenges into opportunity Crises and opportunities always exist side by side. Once overcome, a crisis is an opportunity, Xi said when speaking with local officials of Zhejiang province, Chinas eastern economic powerhouse, in April . Since the COVID outbreak, a slew of technologies have been developed in Chinas battle against the coronavirus. These include a reagent testing kit capable of screening coronavirus in  minutes. The public health crisis has triggered Chinas fast action to address weak links in medical science and technology. Fixedasset investment in China only increased by . percent year on year in , but that in the health and social work sector soared by . percent. In the first eight months of , the valueadded output of the pharmaceutical manufacturing industry increased by  percent year on year, much higher than the average level of the overall manufacturing sector. While striking a hard blow to traditional industries, the health crisis has stimulated an accelerated growth of the digital economy and emerging industries. Seizing the opportunity, the Chinese government has encouraged new infrastructure construction. A total of . million G base stations have been built. Emerging industries such as intelligent manufacturing, unmanned logistics, online consumption, and medical and health care have shown strong growth momentum. A crisis in the economy could sometimes be a good opportunity to boost economic transformation and upgrading. Seizing the rise of the new economy can create new vitality in the crisis, said Ji Weidong, dean of the China Institute for SocioLegal Studies affiliated with Shanghai Jiao Tong University. Foreign nationals register for COVID vaccination at a vaccination site in Beijing, capital of China, April , .  Chinas contribution to the world As China, a major country with . billion people, holds a strong line of defense against COVID, it makes significant contributions to the global fight against the virus. There is ample proof that by taking the lead in bringing the virus under control and resuming work and production, China plays its role as the largest supplier of global antipandemic materials and promotes worldwide antipandemic cooperation and economic recovery. China has also made a solemn commitment to making COVID vaccines a global public good and promoting vaccine accessibility and affordability in developing countries. China has provided more than . billion vaccine doses to more than  countries and international organizations and medical supplies to more than  countries and  international organizations. It has supplied more than  billion masks, . billion protective suits, and . billion nucleic acid testing kits globally. In addition to donating  million U.S. dollars to COVAX, China will donate  million additional vaccine doses to other developing countries this year. China has been making unremitting efforts to rally global consensus on COVID responses and promoting the building of a community of common health for humanity. The current pandemic may appear overwhelming, but humanity will surely overcome it and prevail, said Xi in his statement delivered via video at the general debate of the th session of the United Nations General Assembly on September . To date, China has built or is building bottling bases for bulk vaccines in  countries, building local vaccine production centers, and providing technical support for countries that need vaccine cooperation. China has twice invited WHO experts to China for origins tracing research on the principles of science, openness, and transparency. The experts went to all the places they wanted to go and met all the people they wanted to meet. The conclusions and recommendations of the ChinaWHO joint study report have been recognized by the international community and the scientific community. Only by rejecting the practice of forming small circles or zerosum games and adopting the concept of one big family and winwin cooperation can we jointly take the road of peaceful coexistence and mutual benefit, said Ruan Zongze, executive vice president of the China Institute of International Studies. Despite the difficulties of hosting exhibition activities due to the pandemic, China has set up a series of open cooperation platforms such as the China International Fair for Trade in Services and the China International Consumer Products Expo to share opportunities and jointly create a better global future. China has not become closed, but more open. Despite the disruptions of COVID, China has, so far, signed more than  cooperation documents on Belt and Road cooperation with  countries and  international organizations. In the first eight months of this year, more than , ChinaEurope freight trains went to over  cities in  European countries. A farmer uses a traditional method to thresh rice in a field in Zigui county, Hubei province. MEI XUEFEIXINHUA Longterm strategy undisrupted In addition to the urgent task of combating COVID, China also sticks to its longterm strategy to achieve national rejuvenation. On March , , Xi stressed overcoming the impact of COVID to clinch a complete victory in the fight against poverty at a symposium on securing a decisive victory in poverty alleviation. Xi said that lifting all rural residents living below the current poverty line out of poverty by  was a solemn promise made by the CPC Central Committee, and it must be fulfilled on time. He called for continuous efforts on poverty alleviation, saying it is a tough battle and greater significance must be attached to it in the final push. Several months after the symposium, China achieved the feat of removing all remaining counties from the countrys poverty list. On Nov , , the last nine impoverished counties, all in Southwest Chinas Guizhou province, eliminated absolute poverty. It means that all  registered poor counties in China have shaken off poverty. On Feb , , Xi announced that China secured a complete victory in its fight against poverty while addressing a grand gathering in the Great Hall of the People in Beijing to mark Chinas poverty alleviation accomplishments and honor model poverty fighters. On July , , Xi declared that China realized the first centenary goal of building a moderately prosperous society in all respects at a grand gathering to celebrate the th anniversary of the CPCs founding. Longterm development planning is always on the agenda of Chinese authorities even as the country confronts severe tests from the epidemic. In March , at a critical moment of leading the Chinese people to fight the epidemic, Xi personally led the formulation of the CPC Central Committees proposals for the th FiveYear Plan  for National Economic and Social Development and the LongRange Objectives Through the Year . One year later, Chinas top legislative body approved the Outline of the th FiveYear Plan  for National Economic and Social Development and the LongRange Objectives Through the Year , a roadmap of the countrys new journey toward socialist modernization. The fact that China has included its experiences and reflection of epidemic control into the plan shows the Partys strategic determination to coordinate the present task and the longterm goal, said Liu Qiao, dean of Guanghua School of Management, Peking University. Indeed, history has proven that China can ensure the success of development and security at the same time and is determined to achieve national rejuvenation. The Xiongan New Area construction is at full throttle, and the Hainan free trade port construction is in full swing. The Pudong New Area in Shanghai is on the way to becoming a pioneer area for socialist modernization. Chinas eastern Zhejiang province is exploring effective ways to promote common prosperity while new plans have been released to boost the GuangdongHong KongMacao Greater Bay Area development. The image China presents to the world today is one of a thriving nation that is advancing with unstoppable momentum toward rejuvenation, said Xi when addressing the ceremony celebrating the CPC centenary.