LatAm to see growth in , but below prepandemic levels, warns UN agency
2020/12/17 0:00
Many African countries that had initially controlled the spread of COVID, with some even flattening the infection curve, are now struggling to control subsequent waves of the pandemic, according to latest health figures. The resurgence comes even as experts warn of increased cases due to Christmas and New Year revelry that feature massive travel from urban centers to rural areas for festive gatherings. Against that backdrop, the Africa Centers for Disease Control and Prevention is urging countries to adapt or adopt best practices, strategies, guidelines and recommendations proposed by the World Health Organization and other health agencies to limit coronavirus transmissions. Measures taken need to strike a balance between saving lives and minimizing the impact of the pandemic on the economy and social wellbeing of citizens, according to the agencies. In his weekly virtual briefing on Thursday, Dr John Nkengasong, the director of the Africa CDC, urged governments to increase their surveillance capabilities, especially in remote areas. Nkengasong said governments should ensure that people wear masks consistently, maintain social distancing and practice good hygiene as they travel in rural areas. He warned that failure to observe the health protocols adequately will lead to steep increases in the number of new cases in January. The director also highlighted Africa CDCs commitments to support member states in fighting the second wave of the pandemic as well as ensuring that the continent accesses vaccines. We hope to get rapid access to vaccines so that we can use a combination of health measures and timely massive vaccination to bring down the infection curve, Nkengasong said. As part of latest efforts to contain the second wave of infection, especially during the festive season, South Africa, the hardesthit country in the continent, on Monday announced restrictions on alcohol sales, bans on large public events and a tighter curfew. South African President Cyril Ramaphosa said the decision had been dictated by the increased cases of infections and deaths over the past one week. The country recorded a  percent daily average increase in new cases compared to the previous week, with the number of new cases rising from a daily average of about , to over ,. Daily average coronavirus deaths also jumped over the same period, from just over  deaths a day to over  deaths. If we do not do things differently this festive season, we will greet the new year not with joy, but with sorrow. Many of our friends, relatives and coworkers will be infected, some will get severely ill and some, tragically, will die, Ramaphosa warned. The president said most of the new infections are among young people aged  years, attributing the massive spike to social gatherings and parties. In many of these gatherings, social distancing is not being observed, venues are crowded and not adequately ventilated, hand sanitizers are not readily available, and people are not wearing masks, he said. Ramaphosa said South Africa has completed all the necessary processes to ensure its participation in the WHOs COVID global vaccine access facility. As part of this facility, it is expected that South Africa will receive initial vaccines to cover  percent of our population in the early part of next year, he said. In Kenya, where new cases are also recording highs, the Council of Governors has been urging President Uhuru Kenyatta to issue a cessation of movement in and out of the regions believed to be coronavirus epicenters, to limit any spread of the virus during the festive season. The country is facing a crisis because many public health workers are on strike, complaining that their colleagues are dying from COVID due to a lack of protective gear and health insurance. Some doctors who were scheduled to begin their strike on Dec  also postponed the move to allow for negotiations with the government. Meanwhile, in an interview with the Kenya Television Network, Dr Collins Tabu, the head of immunization at the countrys health ministry, on Thursday said that through the WHOled vaccine facility, Kenya is assured of getting coronavirus vaccines to cover  million people. edithmutethyachinadaily.com.cn