Latest on the COVID outbreak
2020/12/17 0:00
Many more Americans are doing their holiday shopping online this year due to the pandemic, and many of those goods are being shipped from China. The Port of Los Angeles processed a record , twentyfoot equivalent units, or TEUs, in October, an increase of . percent over October last year, the port said in a statement. Propelled by replenishment of inventories and retailers preparing for upcoming holidays, October marked the busiest month in the Ports year history, it said. At the port, shipping containers carrying Chinese imports are stacked like Legos in piles six high. Truckers jam the parking lots, waiting hours to pick up goods, which are then dispatched across the continent, The New York Times reported early this month. Gene Seroka, the ports executive director, told the Times Were going through a time that truly is unprecedented. This ordering and replenishment is bigger than anything weve seen, and now it coincides with holidays. While the ports November processing number was lower at , TEUs, that still was  percent higher than November last year, according to Seroka, who delivered a virtual monthly update to media on Tuesday. About  miles south of Los Angeles, the Port of Long Beach also continued to see burgeoning cargo in November, with , TEUs, a . percent yearonyear jump. For every three and a half containers that are imported into Los Angeles from abroad, only one container leaves filled with US exports, Seroka said in the release, sounding a note of concern about the US trade deficit. In November, China reported a record trade surplus of . billion, as exports surged more than  percent. Exports to the United States jumped  percent to nearly  billion, another record. Chinas rising exports are occurring despite the yuan hovering near multiyear highs against the US dollar. The Chinese currency has notched six straight months of gains, its longest such run since late . Chinas exports were supported by overseas demand for personal protective equipment and electronics products for people working from home amid the pandemic, as well as seasonal Christmas demand, analysts at Nomura Securities said in a note. We believe Chinas export growth could remain elevated for another several months due to the worsening COVID situation overseas, the note said. Strong sales to households of refrigerators, toasters and microwaves have helped recharge Chinese manufacturing, powering demand for metals such as steel, copper and aluminum after a slump early in the year. Overall, Chinas quick economic recovery and its dominance as a source for products that Americans have turned to during the pandemic have outweighed the dampening effect of US President Donald Trumps tariffs, Mary E. Lovely, a senior fellow at the Peterson Institute, told the Times. At the Los Angeles port, the increased volume has helped the local economy and workers, but has also caused a backlog, with sometimes a dozen or more ships waiting in the harbor. Seroka said on Tuesday that there were  ships at anchor with an estimated , TEUs onboard, facing twoday processing delays. It is unusual to see this kind of import activity this late in the year, he said. But as we know,  has been anything but normal. Black Friday shoppers also were content to stay home this year, but it didnt mean they were being Grinches. Instead of putting on masks and contending with the hordes looking for bargains at all hours of the morning, they went online, which has been the longterm trend anyway. Online spending on Black Fridaylast month jumped nearly  percent to hit a record  billion, while on Cyber Monday, four days after Thanksgiving, online sales reached . billion, the largest US onlineshopping day ever, according to Adobe Analytics. Likely adding to the seasonal buying is some retail therapy amid the COVID outbreak, which has claimed more than , lives, and such purchases include yuletide decorations, for which China has been a regular source. An ABC News report in December  said the city of Yiwu, in East Chinas Zhejiang province, produced nearly twothirds of the worlds Christmas decorations. Between September  and August , around  workshops and factories in the city made  billion worth of Christmas products, according to Hangzhou Customs. Meanwhile,  percent of respondents in a survey said they would spend more online during the holidays this year, according to a report from consultancy McKinsey Co. Seroka, the Los Angeles port director, said he is working with several toy manufacturers facing lastminute delays leading up to Dec , Christmas Day. Ive responded by personally reaching out to toy executives to get those gifts under the tree before Christmas, he said, adding that the port has seen unprecedented volume so close to the holiday. Were essentially in a triage situation. Jay Foreman, CEO of the toy company Basic Fun, told the New York Times, Everybody realized we dont need less stuff from Asia and China, we need more stuff. Reuters contributed to this story. hengweilichinadailyusa.com A production line worker in Nantong, Jiangsu province, checks medical gloves on Friday made for export to the United States. XU HUIFOR CHINA DAILY