Xi hails ties with Chile, Tanzania
2020/12/16 19:06
Health officials speak to the need for coronavirus prevention and control at a news conference in Dalian, Liaoning province, on Wednesday. Zhang Xiaominchinadaily.com.cn More than , people in Dalian, Liaoning province, have been tested for the coronavirus after the city reported four new asymptomatic cases of COVID on Tuesday. As of  pm on Wednesday, results were all negative, but more remained to be returned, an official with the citys health commission said at a news conference on Wednesday. According to Zhao Lian, deputy director of the Dalian Health Commission,  people have been identified as having had close contact or secondary contact with the infected individuals. The  were quarantined for medical observation and their nucleic acid test results have all been negative. Those who may have had contact with the four asymptomatic individuals were also quarantined for observation. Their nucleic acid test results were also all negative, she said. The testing was carried out in the communities where the four people live. As of  pm on Wednesday, a total of , people had been tested. Of those, , have been found negative so far, she added. Zhao said the four new asymptomatic cases of COVID were found in the same team of workers engaged in unloading of imported cold food for Dalian Port Yidu Cold Chain Co in Dalian Jinpu New Area. On Dec , they were given routine nucleic acid tests and the results were all negative. Under to the rule that employees in the imported cold food sector should be tested weekly, they took another test on Dec  and the results came back positive, Zhao said. They were transferred to the citys designated COVID hospital  Sixth Peoples Hospital of Dalian  and found to have asymptomatic infections. Zhao reminded workers engaged in the imported cold food industry to wear masks, gloves and proper work clothes when on duty. Provincial and municipal officials have placed great emphasis on epidemic prevention and control. An emergency headquarters on the frontline was established quickly under the citys emergency plan for autumn and winter COVID. A special team has been set up, with  working groups to handle epidemiological investigations, disinfection and nucleic acid testing and related tasks. The team has been directed to take strict and timely steps for prevention and control.