US holiday shopping keeps cargoes flowing from China
2020/12/16 13:11
? Employees make Christmas products at Fuye toy factory in Yiwu, Zhejiang province, China on Sept , .  Many more Americans are doing their holiday shopping online this year due to the pandemic  and many of those goods are being shipped from China. The Port of Los Angeles processed a record , twentyfoot equivalent units TEUs in October, an increase of . percent over October , the port said in a release. Propelled by replenishment of inventories and retailers preparing for upcoming holidays, October marked the busiest month in the Ports year history, the statement said. At the port, shipping containers carrying Chinese imports are stacked like Legos in piles six high. Truckers jam the parking lots, waiting hours to pick up goods, which are then dispatched across the continent, was how The New York Times described the scene in early December. Were going through a time that truly is unprecedented, Gene Seroka, the ports executive director, told the Times. This ordering and replenishment is bigger than anything weve seen, and now it coincides with holidays. While Novembers port numbers were lower, , TEUs  they still were  percent higher than November , according to Seroka, who delivered a virtual monthly update to California media on Tuesday. About  miles south of LA, the Port of Long Beach also continued to see burgeoning cargo numbers in November with , TEUs, a . percent jump over a year ago. For every three and a half containers that are imported into Los Angeles from abroad, only one container leaves filled with US exports, Seroka said in the release, sounding a note of concern about the US trade deficit. This November, China reported a record trade surplus of . billion, as exports surged more than  percent. Exports to the United States jumped  percent to nearly  billion, another record. Chinas rising exports are occurring despite the yuan hovering near multiyear highs against the US dollar. The Chinese currency has notched six straight months of gains, its longest such run since late . Chinas exports were supported by overseas demand for personal protective equipment and electronics products for people working from home amid the pandemic, as well as seasonal Christmas demand, analysts at Nomura Securities said in a note. We believe Chinas export growth could remain elevated for another several months due to the worsening COVID situation overseas, the note said. Strong sales of refrigerators, toasters and microwaves to households have helped recharge Chinese manufacturing, powering demand for metals such as steel, copper and aluminum after a slump early in the year. Overall, Chinas quick economic recovery and its dominance as a source for products that Americans have turned to during the pandemic have outweighed the dampening effect of Trumps tariffs, Mary E. Lovely, a senior fellow at the Peterson Institute, told the Times. At the LA port, the increased volume has helped the local economy and workers but also caused a backlog, with sometimes a dozen or more ships waiting in the harbor. Seroka said Tuesday that there were  ships at anchor with an estimated , TEUs onboard, facing twoday processing delays. It is unusual to see this kind of import activity this late in the year, Seroka said. But as we know,  has been anything but normal. Black Friday shoppers also were content to stay home this year, but it didnt mean they were being Grinches. Instead of putting on masks and contending with the hordes looking for doorbuster sales at all hours of the morning, they went online, which had been the longterm trend anyway. Online spending on Black Friday last month jumped nearly  percent to hit a record  billion, while on Cyber Monday, three days after Thanksgiving, online sales reached . billion, the largest US onlineshopping day ever, according to Adobe Analytics. With a major snowstorm forecast for the New York metropolitan region Wednesday, nine days before Christmas, there probably will be more clicks filling up online shopping carts. Likely adding to the Christmasseason buying is some retail therapy in a country where the COVID outbreak has claimed more than , lives, and that includes yuletide decorations, of which China has been a regular source, so much so that President Donald Trump temporarily delayed tariffs on Christmas ornaments and tree lights last year. A December  report on ABC News said that the city of Yiwu, in East Chinas Zhejiang province, an inland city of . million people, produced nearly twothirds of the Christmas decorations consumed worldwide. Between September  and August , some  workshops and factories around the city made  billion worth of Christmas products, according to Hangzhou Customs. With the coronavirus vaccine distribution underway in the US, peoples spirits may get a boost, which could lead to more holiday spending. A report from McKinsey  Co found that  percent of respondents said they would spend more online during the holidays this year. Seroka, the LA port director, said Tuesday that he is working with several toy manufacturers facing lastminute delays leading up to Christmas Day, Dec . Ive responded by personally reaching out to toy executives to get those gifts under the tree before Christmas, he said, adding that the port has seen an unprecedented volume so close to the holiday. Were essentially in a triage situation. Everybody realized we dont need less stuff from Asia and China, we need more stuff, Jay Foreman, CEO of the toy company Basic Fun!, told the Times. Seroka also said that crews on seagoing vessels should be given priority for coronavirus vaccines. Its important to prioritize the longshore workers and other folks whove worked every day to bring goods to American families, he said. Reuters contributed to this story.