Moderna vaccine approval process to begin
2020/12/16 12:10
? A syringe and a bottle reading Vaccine Covid next to the Moderna biotech company logo taken on Nov , .  A second COVID vaccine may be available in the US as soon as next week as the Food and Drug Administration said Tuesday that Modernas vaccine is highly effective and will go through the approval process starting Thursday. Modernas vaccine will go through the same approval process as Pfizers. The findings from Moderna and the FDA will be presented to an independent panel Thursday. The second major US coronavirus vaccine could be shipped by this weekend if the panel and then the FDA approve its use. The federal government is paying Moderna much as . billion for  million doses. The US government also is paying for the Pfizer COVID vaccine now being given to millions of Americans. But states must absorb other costs that will run into the millions of dollars, and many of them are basically broke. Based just on the use of Pfizers vaccine, Ohio estimates that vaccinerelated costs could run more than  million. Virginia officials put vaccinedistribution costs at  million. New York says its vaccination effort could cost as much as  billion. The pandemic has crushed state tax revenues, so states are looking to Congress to provide additional funding  at least . billion  to cover a large part of the rollout costs for giving the vaccine. The Association of State and Territorial Health Officials and the Association of Immunization Managers have been asking Congress to allocate at least that much money. These funds are urgently needed to expand and strengthen federal, state, local, territorial, and tribal capacity for a timely, comprehensive, and equitable vaccine distribution campaign, the groups wrote in October. Negotiations in Congress over vaccine distribution funding have been tied to stalled talks over providing economic relief to millions of Americans who have suffered as a result of the COVID crisis. Along with the costs of the vaccine, the federal government is paying for syringes, needles, face masks and shields, and dry ice. But the states must pay for hiring medical workers, setting up vaccination clinics, ensuring warehouse storage and refrigeration for the vaccines, which must maintain a certain temperature, establishing security, providing community outreach and education and public campaigns to encourage people to get the shots. Some states also are concerned about having enough gloves and gowns to protect healthcare workers as well as people getting vaccinated. State tax revenues are significantly below prepandemic levels and covering vaccine distribution costs will come at the expense of other areas. We dont want to cut education and healthcare, but thats what it would mean for us, said Robert Mujica, New York states budget director. He said the federal government should cover most, if not all, distribution costs given the magnitude of the pandemic. This is no different than any other national emergency, so the federal government should put up the resources to do it, Mujica said. But officials in several states say they will spend whatever is needed to get residents vaccinated. I think it should be part of the federal governments responsibility, but make no mistake, were going to do it, said Aubrey Layne, Virginias finance secretary. We have to put the welfare and health of our citizens first. During an address in Wilmington, Delaware, on Tuesday night, Presidentelect Joe Biden urged Congress to rapidly fund distribution. We need Congress to finish the bipartisan work underway now or millions of Americans may wait months longer  months longer  than they otherwise would have to get their vaccinations, Biden said. The latest plan by Congress, part of a  billion rescue bill put forward by a bipartisan group of lawmakers, would allocate  billion for distribution. Dr Rachel Levine, Pennsylvanias health secretary and president of the Association of State and Territorial Health Officers, told a Senate hearing on Dec  that states need . billion for the vaccination program. This will not be a shortterm operation, she said, adding that states also would face a challenge in almost competing with each other for resources, as they did in the search for protective equipment in the spring. It would be helpful if the federal government coordinated that and we didnt have to bid against our sister states, she said.