US reports over .m child COVID cases
2020/12/16 6:47
A child arrives in a school bus before attending class at PS  on the first day of a return to class during the COVID pandemic in the Manhattan borough of New York City, New York, Dec , .  WASHINGTON  Nearly ,, children in the United States have been diagnosed with COVID since the onset of the pandemic, representing . percent of the caseload nationwide, according to a new joint report from the American Academy of Pediatrics AAP and the Childrens Hospital Association. A total of , new child COVID cases were reported over the past week from Dec  to , the highest weekly increase since the pandemic began, said the report published Thursday. There was a percent increase in child COVID cases over the two weeks from Nov  to Dec , it said. The overall rate was , cases per , children in the population, said the report. Children accounted for . percent to . percent of total reported hospitalizations, and  percent to . percent of all COVID deaths, it said. Out of the  states, New York City, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico and Guam which provided age distribution of reported COVID cases,  states reported over , child cases,  states said at least  percent of their cases were children, whereas  states reported more than , cases per , children, it said. At this time, it appears that severe illness due to COVID is rare among children. However, there is an urgent need to collect more data on longerterm impacts of the pandemic on children, including ways the virus may harm the longterm physical health of infected children, as well as its emotional and mental health effects, the report said. In her latest statement, AAP President Sally Goza urged vaccine makers to include younger children in their trials as it becomes safe to do so, to make sure that children of all ages and diverse populations can return safely to school in the fall. How long that COVID tunnel will be depends on Americans practicing the public health measures that have been proven to reduce the spread of the virus social distance, wear masks, avoid crowds, wash hands, and get the vaccine when it becomes available, she added. The United States on Monday started its COVID vaccine rollout nationwide. The country has so far registered more than . million cases with over , related deaths, according to the realtime count kept by Johns Hopkins University.