Panda Pack learning project helps children
2020/12/16 0:57
Children show happy faces when receiving new backpacks at their school in Rangoon in Myanmar last year. Photo provided to chinadaily.com.cn by China Foundation for Poverty Alleviation Panda Pack Project, launched in China to improve the basic learning conditions for primary school pupils in countries along the Belt and Road Initiative region, has benefited , children by the end of last month, according to an official of Chinas top antipoverty agency. Since the project launched in February , it has invested . million yuan , million to provide sufficient learning supplies to primary school students in more than  countries in Asia and Africa, said Su Guoxia, spokesperson for the State Council Leading Group Office of Poverty Alleviation and Development. The project strengthened the friendship and connectivity between China and beneficiary countries, Su said. She explained the package on Tuesday during the Dialogue on Chinas Poverty Reduction Experience, an online subforum of the International Forum on Sharing Poverty Reduction Experience. Colaunched by China Foundation for Poverty Alleviation and Alibaba Philanthropy, the package is a public welfare activity without fiscal support, Su said. Given the increasing need of sanitary supplies to combat COVID this year, the pack adds facial masks and disinfectants to the regular supplies in addition to school bags, stationery, and other daily necessities. Pupils hold the panda dolls at Simmano Primary School in Vientiane, Laos, last month. The dolls are delivered with other learning supplies in the Panda Pack to express kindness from China.?Photo provided to chinadaily.com.cn by China Foundation for Poverty Alleviation The project is part of the foundations efforts to help poverty reduction in countries along the Belt and Road Initiative region. By the end of last year, the foundation has invested  million yuan in poverty reduction projects in  countries, which involved , people. According to the World Bank, China has lifted around  million people out of extreme poverty and destitution from  to , accounting for more than  percent of the worlds total during that period. Chinas experience will serve as an example for the rest of the world, Vladimir Norov, secretarygeneral of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization, said at the forum.