US seems unable to stop societal breakdown
2020/12/15 13:56
A member of the news media walks along the West Wing Driveway while wearing a protective face mask at the White House in Washington, US, Dec , .  The COVID pandemic is like a mirror, and what do the American people see when they look at it? According to a survey report from American think tank Pew Research Center,  percent of Americans said the country was more divided than before the outbreak. Analysts in the US pointed out that political polarization and societal breakdown in the country are at their worst since the end of the Civil War and the US is facing the darkest moment in its modern political history. Due to the presidential election and pandemic, political polarization, an inherent structural problem in the US, has dramatically magnified its adverse effects, directly causing serious dilemmas in social governance. The American political system as a vetocracy, or rule by veto, is obvious. The term coined by American political scientist Francis Fukuyama describes a situation in which veto players use their power to veto things not in their interest and block the government from serving the public interest, which will finally lead to political paralysis. The longstanding polarized conflicts between the Democratic and Republican political parties in the US have become an obstacle in solving many major issues such as job creation, tax law system, medical reform, and immigration policy, causing political disorder and public policy uncertainties and affecting the effectiveness of national governance. Practice has indicated that the system of checks and balances designed by American pioneers who drew up the constitution of the US upon its founding is not a panacea. Before leaving office, George Washington, the first president of the US, warned of the dangers of partisan divisions, which split politics and tore society apart. Although more than  years have passed, the US has not yet found a countermeasure. Due to the rise of social media, the phenomenon of polarization in US politics has spread from the countrys political circle to the bottom of society, and party conflicts have increasingly been manifested in the divide among people. A recent article published on a Spanish news website pointed out that in recent years, the dichotomy between winning and losing, friends and foes, and supporting me and opposing me has always dominated American politics. Polarization has touched every aspect of American social life, and is affecting family, friendship, love, marriage, communities, workplaces, schools and even the medical field, said Stephen Stathis, a history expert with the Congressional Research Service of the Library of Congress in the US However, if the problem of societal breakdown remains unresolved, a small leak will sink a great ship as the US The New York Times published an article titled Will the Coronavirus Kill Whats Left of Americans Faith in Washington? several months ago. Survey data indicated that the number of Americans who trust the federal government reached one of the lowest points since the measure anticoronavirus measure began and the pandemic appears to be eroding their faith even more, according to the article. There is an old saying The water that keeps a ship afloat can also upset it. The US failed to pool strong synergy in the fight against the pandemic and more than , Americans have died of COVID, which leads to rising public anger. Some US politicians viewed the pandemic as an opportunity to seize power and partisan interests, instead of making the health and safety of Americans their primary task, which only aggravated deeprooted contradictions. American groups with different political stances resorted to protests to take their frustration out, which even turned into violent conflicts. The current US is like a gunpowder keg, said an article published on the website of LExpress, a weekly French newspaper. The pandemic would have been an occasion for Americans to put aside their differences and rally around the flag, but it has served to deepen polarization, said Francis Fukuyama in an article titled The Wages of American Political Decay. The US has fallen into a vicious circle of obvious escalation of partisan conflicts and societal breakdown. Why is it difficult for the US system to address inadequacies concerning governance? Will the American societys ability to correct itself suffice to reverse the trend of parochialism, xenophobia and hatred? These questions are worth thinking of. It will be difficult for the US society to stop worsening societal breakdown without a clear understanding of reality and correct solution to the issue. Obviously, the US is still on the way to finding answers. ?