Japan, S. Korea leaders on back foot
2020/12/15 9:59
Passersby wearing protective face masks walk on the street at Yokohamas China town in Yokohama, south of Tokyo, on Dec , .  Cases surge hits new PMs poll ratings, while strains follow clamps in Seoul TOKYOSEOULJapan and South Korea grappled with surging coronavirus cases and growing public frustration on Monday as Japans prime minister suspended a contentious travel subsidy program while South Korea ordered schools to close from Tuesday in the capital Seoul. Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga late on Monday further restricted a travel subsidy program in a bid to contain mounting coronavirus infections, as his approval rating plummeted to about  percent from about  percent in the three months over the handling of the pandemic. The government has decided to suspend the Go To Travel from Dec  to Jan  nationwide, local media reported on Monday. Suga also announced plans to compensate bars that cooperate with earlyclosure requests and provide special allowances for medical workers. Media had widely reported earlier that the suspension would cover only the hardesthit cities and regions such as the capital, Tokyo, and Nagoya, in central Japan. Tokyo, the Japanese city hardest hit by the virus, confirmed  new infections on Sunday, official figures showed. South Korea ordered schools to close from Tuesday in Seoul and surrounding areas as it battles its worst outbreak since the pandemic began, surpassing the previous peak in February. Schools in the capital region would move classes online until the end of the month, in the latest ratcheting up of social distancing measures which so far have failed to reverse the spike in infections. The school closures mark a step toward the imposition of Phase  social distancing rules, a move that would essentially lock down Asias fourthlargest economy. Prime Minister Chung Syekyun said such a step required careful review, as the government comes under mounting pressure to do more to stem the rise in infections. The Korea Disease Control and Prevention Agency on Monday reported  new cases, down from the record daily increase from a day earlier. A woman undergoes a coronavirus disease COVID test at a testing site in Seoul, on Dec , .  Biggest financial risk South Korean financiers picked a prolonged pandemic as the biggest financial risk for the economy, a central bank survey showed on Monday. According to the Bank of Korea survey, the highest number of respondents selected the possible prolongation of the pandemic as the biggest risk facing the countrys financial system. It was followed by policy uncertainty under a new United States administration, weakened corporate earnings and the reduced household income resulting from increased unemployment. Globally, more than . million people had been reported to be infected by the novel coronavirus and ,, had died as of Monday morning, according to a Reuters tally. In Europe, Spains health minister said on Sunday that the country should achieve herd immunity by the end of summer  if enough people are vaccinated by then. Salvador Illa said a vaccination program will start in January and by the end of the summer more than two thirds of the population should be vaccinated. However, Illa cautioned Spaniards against dropping their guard during the Christmas period. Italy on Sunday eclipsed Britain to become the nation with the highest coronavirus death toll in Europe. Italy registered  deaths in one day, one of its lowest oneday death counts in about a month. Still, those latest deaths pushed Italys official toll up to ,, according to a tally by Johns Hopkins University. In France, a further , people tested positive on Sunday, the lowest daily tally for the latest sevenday period, while more patients were admitted to hospital. The development ended a weeklong decline in hospitalization, official data showed. Xinhua  Agencies