Tokyo, Nagoya to possibly be removed from Japanese govtbacked travel campaign amid virus spike
2020/12/14 16:19
A man wearing a protective mask walks past Christmas decorations in a business district amid the coronavirus disease COVID outbreak in Tokyo, Japan, Dec  , .  TOKYO  The Japanese government on Monday may exclude Tokyo and Nagoya as destinations from its subsidized Go To Travel campaign owing to an escalation in COVID cases in both cities. Officials said that following a meeting on the coronavirus response later in the day, the government is expected to make a decision as to whether the two cities will be excluded from the statebacked travel program. The possible move comes as COVID patients designated as being in a serious condition hit a record high of  in Japan on Sunday, official figures showed, with the number of new COVID cases across the country totaling ,, compared to a record , new infections reported on Saturday. Some medical officials now believe Japan is in the grip of a third wave of new infections. Tokyo, the hardest hit by the virus among Japans  prefectures, confirmed  new coronavirus infections on Sunday. This was down from a record  cases reported on Saturday, but marked the highest number of new daily infections for a Sunday, official figures showed. Nagoya, meanwhile, confirmed  new COVID cases, with Aichi Prefecture to which it belongs reporting  new cases of the virus. In a news conference on Monday, Aichi Governor Hideaki Omura said that the central government had informed him about the possibility Nagoya may be removed from the travel program to curb the spread of the novel coronavirus. The central government has proposed that Tokyo be excluded from Go To Travel trips until Dec . The Tokyo metropolitan government, for its part, has gone a step further and is looking to extend the suspension through Jan  to curb the spread of the virus. This would be in twine with the central governments proposal that the capital city of  million also extend its restrictions on establishments that serve alcohol, which currently have been requested to close at  pm until Thursday, until after the New year period in January.