In a year like no other, Chinese economy emerges stronger from unprecedented virus test
2020/12/13 15:58
Skyscrapers reach into the clear sky in Beijings CBD area. Photo by Sheng PengFor China Daily BEIJING  Chinas economy, the first jolted by COVID, has bounced back from epidemic fallout with resilience on effective virus control and targeted stimuli, as a pandemic depression continues to threaten the world. With GDP growth reaching . percent and . percent in the second and third quarters, the worlds secondlargest economy completed the upward leg of a Vshaped recovery from virusinduced lockdowns that sent it into a rare .percent contraction in the first quarter. In its latest Economic Outlook report, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development predicted that China will be the only major economy to record positive performance in  with .percent growth. By the end of , global gross domestic product is projected to reach the prepandemic level, with China expected to account for over a third of world economic expansion, according to the report released on Dec . As a more encouraging sign, Chinas exports jumped . percent year on year in November in US dollar terms, the fastest growth since February , thanks to strong demand for medical goods and electronics. The brisk recovery has not been easy to come by. Refraining from hastily resorting to massive stimulus measures, China adopted a clear and consistent approach containing the virus first with stringent public health measures and then rolling out monetary and fiscal policies to revive economic activities. A visitor tries tea products from the UK during the recent third China International Import Expo in Shanghai.  COVIDFIRST Chinas postCOVID rebound is gathering momentum amid a developed world that remains on shaky ground, Stephen Roach, a senior fellow at Yale University, said in an article published by Singaporebased news network Channel NewsAsia. Roach attributed Chinas quick economic recovery to the deployment of a COVIDfirst strategy where the country insulates its citizens from a virulent pathogenic contagion with public health measures first and then makes judicious use of monetary and fiscal policy to reinforce the postlockdown snapback. This is in sharp contrast with some developed countries where debates focused on using monetary and fiscal policies as frontline countermeasures, rather than taking public health measures to contain the virus in the first place, according to Roach. Indeed, China set virus containment as a top policy priority at the beginning of the outbreak, concentrating medical resources and exercising strong epidemic control despite massive economic costs. Factories were shut down, schools were closed and many contactbased services such as entertainment and travel were either fully stopped or shifted online to contain the spread of the disease. Masking, temperature monitoring and health QR code scanning have become new norms in the COVID era in China. When it comes to reopening the economy, China took a targeted and agile approach. Differentiated policies were adopted for economic and social order restoration in different regions, with areas with lowrisk of COVID encouraged to return to normalcy first. Meanwhile, China seemed to be able to perform a delicate balancing act between virus containment and economic recovery thanks to improved testing capacity and tracing. Employees work on Baojun RS cars at a final assembly plant operated by General Motors Co and its local jointventure partners in Liuzhou, Guangxi Zhuang autonomous region.  TARGETED POLICY MIX The countrys fast recovery rests partly with the extraordinary macroeconomic policy mix of raising the deficit, tax relief, cuts in lending rates and banks reserve requirements. Unlike its European and US counterparts, China stayed away from using a deluge of stimulus policies but implemented more targeted countercyclical adjustments, said Xu Hongcai, deputy director of Economic Policy Commission of the China Association of Policy Science. Compared with the trillionyuan about  billion stimulus package China adopted to cope with the  financial crisis, this years measures were gentle, said Zhang Yansheng, chief researcher of the China Center for International Economic Exchanges. To maintain stable liquidity while avoiding money flooding the market, Chinas central bank put more focus on enabling structural policy tools, including relending and rediscount programs. Chinas financial institutions saved enterprises . trillion yuan during the first  months, and are expected to save  billion yuan more in November and December. Stabilizing employment has been a macroeconomic policy priority throughout the year, as it closely relates to peoples wellbeing and social stability. Due to relentless job creation efforts, the countrys unemployment rate reached . percent in October, the lowest of the year. Over  million new urban jobs were created during the first  months, meeting Chinas annual target ahead of schedule, according to data from the Ministry of Human Resources and Social Security. An ocean shipping cargo ship unloads cargoes at the container terminal of the Port of Lianyungang, East Chinas Jiangsu province, on July , .  SAFE AND SOUND GROWTH AHEAD For small and mediumsized businesses  the main drivers of job creation  debt and uncertainties remain major challenges. Xu said he expects macroeconomic policies to continue to focus on protecting market entities and boosting employment next year, which is crucial to stabilizing households income expectations and increasing their willingness to buy. Extraordinary measures should be phased out in  instead of an abrupt exit, Xu said. In its thirdquarter monetary policy report, Chinas central bank pledged to make its prudent monetary policy more targeted and flexible to adapt better to the needs of highquality development and put more focus on the efficiency of financial services to support the real economy. Morgan Stanley predicted that policymakers will likely normalize credit growth and its fiscal stance next year with a full recovery in the labor market and deployment of COVID vaccines, according to its November report. Noting that  will be an especially important year for China in advancing modernization, a meeting of the Political Bureau of the Communist Party of China Central Committee on Friday called for sound and precise implementation of macro policies, keeping the economy running within a reasonable range and adhering to the strategy of expanding domestic demand next year. Reforms on both supply and demand sides should be carried out to achieve a dynamic equilibrium on a higher level, in which demand and supply can boost each other, the meeting said. Chinas overall economic efficiency has improved in recent years due to supplyside structural reforms. As the country will deepen reforms on both supply and demand sides in years to come, the economy will see greater growth potential, Zhang said.