Global COVID deaths surpass .m Johns Hopkins University
2020/12/11 11:02
? In this file photo illustration taken on Nov , , shows a syringe and a bottle reading Covid Vaccine next to the Pfizer company logo.  A US government advisory panel approved emergency use of Pfizers coronavirus vaccine Thursday, passing the final decision to vaccinate millions of Americans to the Food and Drug Administration. The FDA could grant its emergency use authorization, which is a quicker version of full FDA approval, at any time. The panels approval came as the coronavirus outbreak in the US set a record Wednesday , deaths from COVID, the most ever, breaking a record of , set last week, according to Johns Hopkins University data. The  vote with one abstention by the independent nongovernmental experts in vaccine development, infectious diseases and medical statistics came after a daylong public hearing on the safety and efficacy of the vaccine from Pfizer and its German partner BioNTech. The vote concluded that the vaccine appears safe and effective for emergency use in adults and teenagers age  and older. Some panelists said that the recommendation should be for people  years of age and older. Panelists also raised some concerns over side effects and reactions. The Pfizer vaccine already has been given to people in Bahrain and the UK, where it was approved on Dec  Canada approved it on Wednesday. Authorization of Pfizers vaccine is expected to be followed soon by one for Modernas vaccine, which uses similar technology and also has shown promise in clinical trials. Operation Warp Speed, the Trump administrations multibilliondollar program to fasttrack vaccine development, preordered  million doses of Pfizers vaccine in July and heavily backed the development and manufacturing of Modernas vaccine. The federal government has said an initial shipment of . million doses will leave warehouses within  hours of FDA approval. About half of those doses will be sent across the country, and the other half will be reserved for the initial recipients to receive their second dose about three weeks later. The US also reported , new coronavirus cases Wednesday, the secondworst day on record. The number of infections in a week set a record of almost . million,  new cases per minute. At the current pace, the US death toll from the entire pandemic could reach , in just a few days, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Newly released data from the Health and Human Services Department show at least  hospitals were at full capacity last week. In one third of all US hospitals, more than  percent of all ICU beds were occupied, according to the data. Health officials are predicting all the numbers will go higher as the predicted postThanksgiving surge has already led to widespread infections and recordsetting hospitalizations and deaths. New infections are coming so quickly that hospitals are running out of beds, prompting stayathome orders in some places and mask mandates in  states. Agencies contributed to this story.