Italy traces virus back to December last year, new study reports
2020/12/11 7:11
Passengers wearing protective face masks walk at Fiumicino Airport in Rome, Italy on June , .  Italy has now traced its earliest novel coronavirus case back to early December , researchers said in a new study published by the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, in the latest research suggesting that the disease hit Europe earlier than believed. We identified severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus  SARSCoV RNA in an oropharyngeal back of the tongue and throat swab specimen collected from a child with suspected measles in early December , Antonella Amendola of the University of Milan and other authors wrote in the CDCs Emerging Infectious Diseases journal. SARSCoV is the respiratory virus that causes COVID, while RNA, or ribonucleic acid, is a nucleic acid present in all living cells. That was about three months before the first identified coronavirus case in Italy, they said in an early release of their article for the February  issue of the journal. This finding expands our knowledge on timing and mapping of novel coronavirus transmission pathways, the Italian authors wrote. COVID symptoms can appear as early as two days after infection or as late as  days, according to the CDC. That could mean the coronavirus was circulating in Italy as early as the end of November , as reported by Bloomberg on Wednesday, which cited the same research. The new study provides further perspective into demystifying the origins of COVID, as other scientific papers have also suggested that the novel coronavirus appeared in the United States in midDecember  and in France in late December, before or around the time the virus was officially identified in China. China reported cases of what was then called pneumonia of unknown causes on Dec . The World Health Organization said it received Chinas official report on the cluster of cases on Jan . In the Italian case, researchers said the boy, who lived in the surrounding area of Milan and had no reported travel history, had a cough and rhinitis on Nov  and was taken to a hospital emergency room with respiratory symptoms and vomiting a week later. These findings, in agreement with other evidence of early COVID spread in Europe, advance the beginning of the outbreak to late autumn , the authors noted. In France, researchers found the virus in a retrospective analysis of a specimen from a patient who was hospitalized on Dec , , weeks before the first cases were confirmed in France, on Jan , . The Italian researchers pointed out, however, that earlier strains also might have been occasionally imported to Italy and other countries in Europe during the late autumn period, but those importations could have been different from the strain that became widespread in Italy during the first months of . Italy was the first Western country severely hit by COVID, with the first known COVID case reported in the town of Codogno, in the Lombardy region, on Feb . However, some evidence suggests that SARSCoV had been circulating unnoticed for several weeks in Lombardy before it was first officially detected, according to the CDC journal article. Italy logged  coronavirusrelated deaths on Wednesday, raising the total to more than , since February, the secondhighest toll in Europe after the UK. Researchers in the country have never stopped their quest for the exact timeline of the COVID epidemic in Italy. Traces in Italy, US Environmental surveillance has unequivocally demonstrated the presence of the virus, at concentrations comparable to those obtained from samples collected at later stages of the pandemic, in the untreated wastewater of the Milan area as early as midDecember , according to the article. Another research article, published on Nov  by the National Cancer Institutes scientific magazine Tumori Journal, shows that . percent of  healthy volunteers participating in a lung cancerscreening trial between September  and March  had developed coronavirus antibodies. Scientists at the US CDC also found evidence of novel coronavirus infection in  of , blood donations collected from residents in nine states across the US as early as midDecember, according to their study published online in the journal Clinical Infectious Diseases on Nov .