Investor event attracts b to Shenzhen
2020/12/10 8:49
? A nurse wearing an N mask adjusts IV equipment hanging outside a COVID patients door in a Stamford Hospital intensive care unit ICU, on April ,  in Stamford, Connecticut.  A registered nurse in Montana has spoken of the toll the pandemic has taken on rural healthcare services. Joey Traywick, , told National Public Radio he arrives at work every morning with an ominous feeling. You start realizing youre kind of going into the heart of the beast, he said. Traywick works in the coronavirus unit at St. Vincent Healthcare in Billings. The facility, which has three COVID units, treats the local population of more than ,, along with critically ill patients from across the state. Traywick has worked in one of the units since February. In recent months, he has given interviews to national and local media, describing how the pandemic has pushed rural healthcare to the limits. Traywick, who has  years experience as a nurse, said he thought Montana would dodge a bullet, with the state not seeing many of the virus effects. Were not overwhelmed, but were in it, he said. Were not dodging the bullet. Were absorbing it, were tolerating it and were able to treat the patients. We do the best we can. Were rural medicine miles  kilometers in any direction, were it. We like to say that we have more cows than people in Montana. In addition to the impact the virus has had on patients, it has affected their caregivers, with Traywick himself experiencing a bout. He said he misjudged just how serious the condition of one of his patients was. By the time he returned to her room, she had died alone. I thought, Im never going to let that happen again, he told NBC News. Theyre not going to pass alone on my unit again. None of them. Since that incident, Traywick said he has held hands with  patients who died. I never thought it would happen here, he said. I never thought we would be anywhere close to where we are now. Im a good nurseand the nurses I work with are good nursesbut we are broken.