Singapore expands Global Innovation Alliance network to Chinas Shenzhen
2020/12/10 7:26
A batch of  million donated medical masks from China arrives at the Liege airport in Belgium on March , , en route to France.  Leaders agree to cooperate on ChinaEU investment, support multilateralism President Xi Jinping and his French counterpart Emmanuel Macron reached broad consensus on Wednesday on bilateral and international issues, and both expressed the hope that negotiations on the ChinaEuropean Union investment agreement will be finished at an early date. They also pledged to promote bilateral ties while speaking by phone on Wednesday night. Xi said increasing instability and uncertainties in todays world require major countries to assume bigger responsibilities. Upholding multilateralism and safeguarding the international system with the United Nations at the core as well as international order underpinned by international law are important items of consensus between China and France, he said. Xi called on the two countries to insist on a consensus to guide bilateral ties, strengthen exchanges and cooperation and maintain close communication and coordination on major international and regional issues. The global and strategic significance of ChinaEU cooperation is growing in prominence given the new circumstances, Xi said. But whatever changes may happen in the international landscape, he said, China will remain committed to firmly advancing the healthy and stable development of ChinaEU ties. He also expressed hope that the EU will adopt a positive policy toward China. Both sides should work together to step up negotiations on the ChinaEU investment agreement and hold highlevel dialogues on the environment and climate change as well as on digital development to bring bilateral ties to a new stage, Xi said. Macron mentioned cooperation between France and China in the fight against COVID, saying his country considers ties with China to be greatly important. France stands ready to work with China to intensify FranceChina and EUChina cooperation, he said, adding that it also wants to continue to strengthen coordination and cooperation with China on major issues such as climate change, public health and cooperation with African countries. He also expressed the hope to visit China at an appropriate time. China and France will use the opportunity of the Beijing Winter Olympics in  and the Paris Olympics in  to strengthen peopletopeople exchanges and cooperation, they agreed. They also agreed that the two countries will jointly uphold multilateralism and work together to cope with climate change.