HK sees  new cases on eve of tougher virus curbs
2020/12/9 21:46
Customers right, behind glass eat in a fast food restaurant as a young girl wearing a face mask walks on the street outside in Hong Kong on December , , two days before new measures, including a ban on evening restaurant dining, aimed at stemming a fourth wave of COVID infections come into effect.  HONG KONG  Hong Kong reported  new COVID infections on Wednesday, bringing the citys tally of confirmed cases , on the eve of tighter social distancing rules. The new cases included  local infections and five imported cases, Chuang Shukkwan, head of the Centre for Health Protections communicable disease branch, said at a media briefing. Of the  new cases,  were untraceable. There were also  people who tested preliminarily positive, Chuang added. An yearold woman, who died on Wednesday afternoon, became the citys th coronavirusrelated fatality, Hospital Authoritys chief manager Sara Ho said at the same briefing. Chuang said  new patients were linked to the dance club cluster, which now has more than  confirmed patients. This growing cluster has also led to new infection groups, such as the one centered around Ho Yuk Ching Willow Lodge, an elderly care home in Tai Kok Tsui. Chuang said that four new patients were residents of the Kwai Shing West Estate Block , which now has a total of  infections. The government would issue a notice of mandatory testing for all people who had been to the block after Nov  and stayed for more than  minutes. A construction worker at the site of the Tseung Kwan O C Lam Tin Tunnel was confirmed infected and five others tested preliminarily positive. All their coworkers will undergo mandatory virus testing, Chuang said. Mandatory testing orders would also be given to the employees of the Yata supermarket in Sha Tin who have been to the first or second floor of their workplace after Nov , as well as people who have visited Kam Fung Court Block C Kam Wai House in Ma On Shan and stayed there for more than two hours after Nov . Starting Thursday, Hong Kong will prohibit dinein services at restaurants after  pm while gyms, sports venues, fitness clubs and massage and beauty salons will also be shut down as the city grapples with the fourth wave of coronavirus cases.