Virus infections rising in almost half of US states
2021/11/18 8:09
A nurse tends to a COVID patient during a tour of SSM Health St. Anthony Hospitals intensive care unit amid the coronavirus disease pandemic in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma, US, on Aug , .  A surge in coronavirus cases has hit at least  states, and hospitalizations also are rising in areas even with high vaccination rates. As winter approaches, federal data shows that the daily case average in the US is now ,, a  percent increase over the past two and a half weeks, according to ABC News. Several states including New York, New Jersey, Colorado, New Mexico and California have approved COVID booster shots for anyone aged  or over in a bid to stop the surge. At least . percent of people aged  and over are fully vaccinated against COVID. But the unvaccinated are still at a greater risk of contracting or dying from the virus, according to the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Vermont, a state where  percent of the population is vaccinated against COVID, reported  percent more coronavirus cases on average over the past two weeks. On Nov , there were  cases in Vermont, the highest case count on record. In Essex County, the county with the lowest vaccination rate in Vermont, there were , cases per , people reported from Nov  to . The US saw its first national increase in hospitalizations in  weeks, ABC News reported. There were at least , patients with COVID in hospitals, an increase of , patients since Nov . Hospitals in New Mexico, Colorado and Idaho said their intensivecare units were filling up with COVID patients. In Colorado,  percent of ICU beds were full as of Nov , and nonemergency surgeries were suspended to handle the crisis. Dan Weaver, vicepresident of communications at the University of Colorado Hospital, said in a statement We have been proactively postponing most nonurgent and nonemergent surgeries. The hospital said that nearly  percent of coronavirus patients in their ICU were not vaccinated as of Nov . Colorado state officials said on Monday that people attending public indoor events in Denver with more than  people must show proof of vaccination. In New Mexico, the sevenday rolling average of COVID cases is , per day, according to data from the state. It has risen  percent on average, over the past two weeks. Mandate extended Governor Michelle Lujan Grisham extended until Dec  a statewide mask mandate that requires masks to be worn inside public spaces, irrespective of a persons vaccination status, CNN reported. New York City also reported a rise in coronavirus cases. The average of daily cases was , as of Sunday,  percent higher than it was two weeks ago, The New York Times reported. According to the citys COVID data web page, . percent of New York City adults are fully vaccinated. New York Health Commissioner Dave Chokshi issued an advisory on Monday for all adults to receive a booster shot, as long as they had their last dose of the Moderna or Pfizer vaccine six months ago. He urged healthcare providers not to turn anyone away who wants the booster. Chokshi tweeted Booster doses can provide one more layer of reassurance, allowing us to breathe a bit easier, either for ourselves or our loved ones, particularly as we gather and travel around the holidays. By Tuesday, , deaths had been reported in the US, data from Johns Hopkins University shows.