Airlines stepping up to plate in vaccine delivery
2020/12/9 8:15
SONG CHENCHINA DAILY Chinas economy is on the road to recovery after the COVID shock in the spring of . Negative growth rates in investment, manufacturing activity, and consumption have reversed course and moved into positive territory, and some indicators, such as exports, have even beaten expectations, registering a positive growth rate of more than  percent in the third quarter of the year. How an economy recovers from an economic shock determines how robust its recovery will be. Back in , the Chinese governments  trillion yuan  billion stimulus package following the global financial crisis fueled a credit boom, which inflated the shadowbanking sector and sent debt levels soaring to alarming levels. To be sure, Chinas overall response salvaged the economy and maintained impressive growth rates. But as investment flooded into infrastructure projects and housing, and onto the balance sheets of large stateowned enterprises, it created even more economic distortions than there had been before the crisis. Overall productivity growth would remain diminished for the next decade. This time around, Chinas recovery is again based on a large stimulus plan, coupled with measures to control the virus so that work and other economic activities can resume. But much of the spending so far has come from the public sector rather than private enterprise. Moreover, recent figures show that Chinas postCOVID rebound has been led by investments in infrastructure and housing, whereas consumption growth has been sluggish and nowhere near the precrisis level. Even though people are safe going about their normal lives, the service sector is still nowhere near a true recovery. Out of an abundance of caution, people are saving more and going out less. This trend could bode ill not just for China but also for the rest of the world, since it may be an indication of what awaits other economies. There also are at least three other reasons for concern. First, while Chinas export figures exceeded expectations this year, they may be more disappointing in the year ahead. In , China acted as a global supplier of last resort, keeping factories open as they were shut down elsewhere. And because part of Chinas current growth is led by exports of critical pandemicrelated goods like face masks to the rest of the world, its positive trade statistics reflect not so much a recovery in global demand as a shift in production to China. This process will reverse whenever global production sites reopen and supply chains start functioning again. A second concern is that the recovery has triggered a broader structural deterioration, following years of economic reorientation away from exports and investment and toward consumption. There has been some progress in this regard in recent years, but the balance is now shifting back toward investment and trade, as supply leads demand in the process of recovery. Chinas macrolevel recovery thus masks microlevel challenges. As of the third quarter of , income growth had not recovered, and household disposable income was contracting. Demand for migrant workers had been hit especially hard, and showed no signs of recovery. And the labor force participation rate remained diminished since falling at the onset of the pandemic. The third cause for concern is that financial risks are looming, and this time they are arising from the real economy. Corporate balance sheets will look substantially worse over time, especially for small and mediumsized enterprises. In the first half of , the gap between corporate borrowing and saving rose to unprecedented heights, reaching more than  trillion yuan. This would take at least one to two years to resolve even under normal circumstances. If cash flows remain depressed for an extended period, risks of bad debt will rise, especially in the transportation, travel and restaurant sectors. Such debts will pose significant threats to financial institutions as the quality of bank assets and thus of loan portfolios deteriorates. Fortunately, although the governments shortterm recovery measures have slowed progress on longerterm reforms, its postpandemic spending spree is more targeted than last time, and thus unlikely to fuel another credit bubble. Among the most notable features of this package is its emphasis on investments in innovation. In order to build new infrastructure, the government is redirecting resources from traditional projects to data centers, artificialintelligence applications, and electricvehicle charging stations, increasing investment in hightech manufacturing and services by nearly  percent over the course of the year. Therefore, we should expect a continued commitment to opening up the economy, particularly in financial services. Chinese policymakers recognize that the domestic financial system needs to become more competitive and more closely integrated with Western institutions and corporations amid heightening geopolitical tensions. Finally, Chinas recent decision to dispense with a national growth target is a welcome development. With less pressure on local governments to churn out high GDP figures, they can focus instead on boosting employment, improving peoples livelihoods, strengthening food and energy security, and creating opportunities for small and mediumsized business. China is a decade wiser than it was when it encountered its first major economic challenge of the post era of reform and openingup. Having matured as an economy and grown more patient, China is less eager to achieve shortterm gains, and more invested in creating opportunities for its people over the long term. The recovery may be slow, but it will follow a path that is smoother and more secure than the route taken last time. The views dont necessarily represent those of China Daily. The author, a professor of Economics at the London School of Economics, is a World Economic Forum Young Global Leader. Project Syndicate