New green awareness changes destiny of skin care products
2020/12/9 7:18
Visitors check out SKII products during an international trade fair in Shanghai. MA JIANFOR CHINA DAILY SKII brand finds fresh purpose, digital market channels to satisfy consumers Despite masks covering part of their faces for protection from the novel coronavirus, beautyand healthconscious female consumers in China are not neglecting skin care and, in fact, preferring environmentally friendly products, which encourages cosmetics firms to innovate the sourcing of raw materials and use digital technologies like artificial intelligence in production. This heightened sensitivity to the environment in the COVID era among consumers has pushed Procter  Gamble to redefine the purpose of its SKII skin care brand. PG has expanded the scope of Change Destiny, its motto for SKII, said Sandeep Seth, chief executive officer of SKII Global. The last six to nine months have shown the world what can happen to the environment in certain circumstances and how big an impact it can have on everyones life, he said. People talk about the new normal because so much has changed. Without disclosing relevant figures, Seth said  was a good year for SKII in China. We exceeded our target. Although sales slumped during the first half of this year due to COVID disruptions, the second half saw a recovery on the back of robust domestic consumption due to limited outbound travel that invariably spurs shopping abroad. Chinas success in combating the epidemic helped push sales of cosmetics and other wellness products among domestic consumers, who would have otherwise bought them overseas during their travels. Chinas quick rebound also helped SKIIs beauty consultants to reestablish contact with their patrons, he said. We tried to reemerge stronger by strengthening supply chain agility, ecommerce and user experiences online and offline. All this helped PG to build SKII into a strong brand. Ecommerce, in particular, took off during the pandemic peak period as it fulfilled consumer desire for contactless shopping. Toward this end, SKII developed the Magic Scan, a contactless and AIenabled skin counseling diagnosis tool. It allows skin scanning without any contact, and can detect freckles and generate highquality analysis for skin management. The brand has also introduced Yumi, an animated figure that serves as a communication bridge connecting retailers and consumers. Online domain experts said we need to leapfrog and bring the latest technologies to the market, so we introduced livestreaming sessions in our ecommerce channels, said Seth. SKII has been researching skin in the context of the pandemic. In particular, it focused on how, with the mask on or while staying at home, consumers can take better care of their skin. Its consultants began offering online training for consumers to compensate for the lack of offline interactions and to ensure online shopping was not considered a poor substitute. During the COVID period, the importance of skin care has gone up even more, said Seth. According to Kantar Worldpanel Chinas analysis, the rising popularity of environmentally friendly cosmetics and healthy products reflects consumers desire for positive change inside out. In a report, the market research firm said the prevention of novel coronavirus has had a major impact on the skin care sector. In the first six months, about  million female consumers have started to use skinrepair products. Dutyfree stores are considered an emerging driver of sectoral growth in China, Seth said. The landscape of domestic retailers is changing with dutyfree stores, especially the Hainan dutyfree island. Its helping the travel retail industry to shape itself for the next six to  months, he said. Consumers are also keen to buy products that underscore sustainable practices in sourcing and manufacturing. According to Who Cares Who Does report from Kantar Worldpanel, the ratio of environment supporters in the total number of consumers has increased to  percent, up  percentage points yearonyear. So, SKII is now using bamboo materialbased packaging. Its new program called NOW invites shoppers to participate in, and donate to, a good cause. A lot of our shoppers are creating, getting more aware and interested in what we can do to create an environment that is sustainable. Thats why we are expanding our brands purpose of Change Destiny from skin and life to include the planet, said Seth.