Chinas foreign trade on more solid ground with exports up nearly  in November
2020/12/8 14:36
Containers are unloaded at Qingdao Port in Shandong province in March. Photo by Yu FangpingFor China Daily BEIJING  Chinas foreign trade continued to pick up in November with notable growth and improved structure, official data showed Monday. The countrys foreign trade expanded . percent yearonyear last month, with exports jumping . percent yearonyear in yuan terms. Imports dipped . percent from a year ago, the General Administration of Customs said. In the first  months, Chinas foreign trade of goods totaled . trillion yuan about . trillion, up . percent yearonyear, accelerating from an increase of .percent in the first  months, the administration said in a statement. The accelerated growth in foreign trade reflects Chinas strong economic resilience, said Zhuang Rui, a researcher with the Academy of China Open Economy Studies under the University of International Business and Economics. General trade, involving longer production chains and better reflecting the countrys manufacturing strength, edged up . percent during the month period, taking a larger share of the total trade of goods. The Association of Southeast Asian Nations remained Chinas largest trading partner during the period, followed by the European Union and the United States. Private companies played a significant role in propelling trade growth, with their foreign trade expanding by . percent in the first  months to account for . percent of the countrys total. Mechanical and electrical products took the lions share of the countrys exports, with their export value reaching . trillion yuan in the first  months, up . percent yearonyear. Textile exports including masks surged  percent yearonyear during the period, while auto exports slipped . percent. Chinas foreign trade has steadily recovered from the woes of the COVID pandemic in recent months thanks to government policies to stabilize the sector. To mitigate the epidemics impact on foreign trade firms, the country has streamlined customs procedures and rolled out incentives for crossborder ecommerce as well as introduced other innovative trade forms. China has shortened the catalog of technologies prohibited or restricted from import, and taken steps to strengthen intellectual property protection. The country has also vowed to set up  demonstration zones to promote imports, where innovative regulatory systems and flexible trade models will be piloted. In its latest effort to open the market and boost trade, China signed the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership agreement, the worlds largest free trade deal, with  ASEAN member countries and Japan, the Republic of Korea, Australia and New Zealand in midNovember. As China actively promotes the negotiations and signing of more free trade agreements, the country will see the scale and quality of foreign trade improve, Zhuang said.