US can put lives before politics by fighting virus with science
2020/12/8 8:10
Anthony Fauci removes his mask as he testifies during a US Senate Hearing during the coronavirus disease outbreak in Washington, DC, US, Sept , .  Anthony Fauci, director of the US National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, on Thursday accepted without hesitation Presidentelect Joe Bidens invitation to serve as his chief medical adviser and be part of his antiCOVID team. Four days ago, Scott Atlas, a controversial member of the White Houses novel coronavirus task force, resigned as pandemic adviser to President Donald Trump after holding that post for  days. These changes indicate that unlike its predecessor the incoming Biden administration will not act as a science denier in the countrys fight against the novel coronavirus. As of this weekend, the virus has claimed more than , lives in the US. Given the Trump administrations failure to break the viruss transmission chainsit has actually given upit is feared that by the time Biden enters the White House, at least , people would have lost their lives. In other words, it is necessary that Biden include Fauci in his pandemiccontrol team. Fauci will not only play a substantial role but also change the former administrations approach toward the pandemic. Although Biden won the election, it should not be forgotten that at least  million US citizens voted for Trump, if not his COVID policy. Given the US strengths in vaccine development and manufacturing of medical supplies, if the people can correct the misinformation about the virus that the outgoing administration tried hard to instill in their minds, the US cannot only save itself, but also contribute tremendously to the worlds fight against a common enemy. It is hoped that the incoming administration will amend the US ties with the World Health Organization as soon as possible and engage the US in international cooperation on pandemic control. It is also hoped that the new administration will introduce necessary measures in a timely manner to bring the country worst hit by the virus back on track by putting lives before politics.