Travel plan ends crossborder woes
2020/12/8 6:53
Travelers approach the Luohu border crossing in Shenzhen, Guangdong province, on Nov , . Photo by Yan CongGetty Images HK residents return after month wait Leung Wingyat, , arrived at the Shenzhen Bay Control Point in Guangdong province on Nov , eager to end a month wait. He was one of the first to take advantage of a newly launched plan allowing Hong Kong residents to return to the city from Guangdong and Macao without undergoing  days of quarantine. A social worker helped Leung, who moved to Shenzhen  years ago after he retired, with his online application for one of the , places available each day under the plan. Leung previously worked at Hong Kong International Airport. Before the pandemic struck, Leung traveled to Hong Kong four or five times a month to meet friends, see doctors and manage his finances. He usually returned to Shenzhen the same day. However, restrictions imposed in February as a result of the pandemic brought an immediate plunge in crossborder travel between Hong Kong and the Chinese mainland. On Feb , the Hong Kong government required all arrivals who had visited the mainland in the previous  days to undergo two weeks of quarantine on entry. On March , the Guangdong authorities said arrivals from outside the mainland, including those from Hong Kong and Macao, must be quarantined for  days. As a result of the restrictions, the round trip between Hong Kong and neighboring Shenzhen was tagged the longest journey in the world, as it took at least  days. In June, Leung began to keep a close eye on the latest crossborder travel measures each day. He was looking forward to the restrictions being relaxed, as one of his insurance contracts needed to be renewed by end of August and the premium had to be paid in Hong Kong. His insurance broker told him that because of the pandemic, the company could grant him a threemonth extension, but he still needed to go to Hong Kong to pay the premium by November, or his contract would be invalidated. A Hong Kong boy protects himself from the virus. Photo by Parker ZhengChina Daily Leung said he was initially confident that the restrictions would be relaxed, but he had heard no good news by September. His confidence dropped every day, and as November drew closer, he felt increasingly anxious. So, you can imagine how excited I was when the Hong Kong government finally announced the new measure early last month, he said. On Nov , the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region government announced that the new plan, Returnhk, would take effect on Nov , with quota of , places available every day. Eligible residents can apply online for a quarantine exemption and choose a return date and border control point. They must also produce a negative nucleic acid test result within three days of arriving in Hong Kong. Leung completed all the preparatory work, but was still worried that the plan would be postponed, as Hong Kong was experiencing a fourth wave of the pandemic. The new infections led to the postponement of the muchanticipated travel bubble between the city and Singapore on Nov , one day before Returnhk was due to start. It was later announced that the bubble, which provides for quarantinefree travel between Hong Kong and Singapore, was being postponed to next year, subject to a review later this month. Leung said Fortunately, Returnhk was not postponed. I was very happy about that and I was able to enter Hong Kong smoothly on the morning of Nov . The new plan helped Leung avoid some financial losses. He planned to stay in Hong Kong for two days before returning to Shenzhen. Although he faced  days isolation in Shenzhen, he said it was good news that, after eight months, the quarantine period had been reduced from  days. He said he hoped the pandemic would end as soon as possible and that travel between Hong Kong and the mainland could return to normal. According to Hong Kongs Constitutional and Mainland Affairs Bureau, around , people have applied to return under the plan between Nov  and Dec . ? Hong Kong residents line up for nucleic acid tests in Tseung Kwan O on Dec , . Photo by Calvin NgChina Daily Good start ? Fung Wingcheong, deputy director of the Hong Kong Federation of Trade Unions Shenzhen consulting service center, said Returnhk is a good start, but it cannot help most crossborder workers and their families. Most of the people benefiting from the plan are those who need to return to Hong Kong urgently to deal with financial or tax issues, or to see doctors, Fung said, adding that it has not solved the problems faced by many thousands of crossborder families, students and commuters. According to the Hong Kong Education Bureau, some , students from the city living on the mainland travel to Hong Kong every school day. Figures from the citys Census and Statistics Department show that more than , people commute between Hong Kong and the mainland for work, with , of them living in the city. In addition, by the end of ,, Hong Kong people age  and older were living in Guangdong, some of whom need to return to Hong Kong regularly to see doctors. Due to the border restrictions, the lives of these people, including their family members, have been seriously disrupted and many have been left in limbo. Before the restrictions were imposed in February, Jodie Yang, a yearold accountant, commuted between Shenzhen and Hong Kong every workday. She lives in the Luohu district of Shenzhen and works for a company in Hong Kongs New Territories. Yang said she was lucky, as her employers allowed her to work in the Shenzhen office temporarily. However, in July, she had to go to Hong Kong to renew her work visa, despite having to find shortterm rental accommodations and undergo  days quarantine. Many people have not been as fortunate as Yang. Fung said his center had received requests for help from Hong Kong residents living in Shenzhen. Residents wear face masks in the citys Mong Kok district on Dec .  Parker ZhengChina Daily These people are  to  years old and did parttime work in Hong Kong, but lost their jobs during the pandemic and are not eligible to apply for Comprehensive Social Security Assistance granted by the Hong Kong government, as they cannot provide a valid residential address in the city, he said. The residents have the option of moving back to Hong Kong, renting apartments and applying for the governments monthly subsidy, Fung said. But this would cost more and add to their burden, as well as that of the government. The optimal solution is that the Hong Kong government should introduce more decisive and stricter measures to thoroughly control the pandemic, Fung added. In late August, the Hong Kong government said a health code system, allowing quarantinefree travel between Hong Kong and Guangdong or Macao, had been drawn up. However, it has yet to take effect, as Hong Kong has been unable to meet the requirements of the mainland and Macao that it must have had no local COVID infections for  consecutive days. Also in late August, twoway travel between the mainland and Macao resumed. Crossborder travelers no longer have to undergo mandatory quarantine in either jurisdiction, as long as they produce a negative nucleic acid test result and a health code showing no abnormalities. Mass testing With Hong Kong witnessing a fourth wave of infections, the prospects of twoway travel between the city and the mainland returning in the short term appear to be diminishing. As of Monday, there had been , confirmed cases of COVID in Hong Kong,  deaths and , patients had recovered. In Shenzhen on Nov , infectious disease expert Zhong Nanshan said it is vital for Hong Kong to organize citywide testing for COVID in order to identify undetected infections. A traveler passes a checkpoint on the border between Hong Kong and the Chinese mainland.  China Daily Some lawmakers and groups in the city have voiced support for this suggestion. The Hong Kong Federation of Trade Unions called for a mandatory mass virus testing program and urged the government to consider introducing a lockdown to contain the outbreak. Some  percent of , respondents to an online survey conducted by the federation from Nov  to Nov  said they support such a program, while  percent said they wanted a day lockdown. Lawyer and lawmaker Junius Ho Kwanyiu said the Hong Kong government should realize that a large number of residents want travel between the city and the mainland to resume. He suggested that to contain the outbreak as soon as possible, the city should introduce mandatory mass testing for the virus and ban people from leaving home before they obtain the results. If such measures result in zero infections, Hong Kong would have the opportunity to restart crossborder travel next month, Ho added. However, at a news conference on Nov , Hong Kong Chief Executive Carrie Lam Cheng Yuetngor said the government had no plan to launch a mandatory mass testing program for the virus. She said such a program was impractical for the city, as related arrangements, including a lockdown, must be put in place together with the testing. If I go through a test today, there is no point if I am still allowed to go out, to go to work or to a restaurant, she said. Lam estimated it would take about four weeks to complete mandatory citywide testing for the virus, adding that it would be hard for the city to survive during this period and people would also find it difficult to comply with a mandatory stayathome order. Plugging loopholes Leung Chichiu, a Hong Kong specialist in respiratory medicine, described the citys pandemic situation as a wildfire, with infection clusters found in different districts at a range of venues, including dance studios, restaurants and resorts. Given the citys limited medical resources, it is not possible at present to conduct largescale, let alone citywide, testing for the virus, he added. Leung, former chairman of the Hong Kong Medical Associations Advisory Committee on Communicable Diseases, said the priority should be using resources to screen highrisk groups and patients with COVID symptoms. The Hong Kong government currently orders mandatory testing for highrisk groups such as nursing and care home employees and those who have visited venues linked with infection clusters. Anyone failing to comply with a mandatory testing notice face a fine of HK, . Those issued a mandatory testing notice faces a fine of HK, .Violators of the notice are given a testing order, with breaches of this liable to a HK, fine and six months imprisonment. Lam, the chief executive, said the government would more than double the fixed penalty of HK, for violations of antivirus regulations, including the ban on gatherings, the mandatory wearing of face masks and the compulsory testing order. Leung said that in addition to stricter social distancing measures and mandatory testing, the authorities should thoroughly review coronavirus prevention and control measures as soon as possible to plug loopholes, adding, The government should learn a lesson. He suggested the authorities review the measures taken for arrivals from outside Hong Kong, along with quarantine exemptions.