Thousands back to NYC classrooms under new rules
2020/12/8 4:46
Schoolteacher Melissa Wong packs up the classroom that she appropriated for virtual teaching just a couple of months earlier on November ,  at Yung Wing School PS  in New York City.  NEW YORK  The K, PreK and K students were back in New York Citys public school classrooms for inperson learning on Monday, tweeted Mayor Bill de Blasio, while urging families to sign their testing consent forms so that the schools can be kept safe and the students healthy. It comes nearly three weeks after the city shut down schools over rising positivity rates. The mayor has decided students can return as long as the positivity rates in the schools remain low. NYCs COVID infection rate on a sevenday average went up to . percent, compared with  percent one day earlier, de Blasio tweeted on Sunday. The rate has been above  percent since Nov , topped  percent for the first time on Nov , and then surpassed  percent on Dec . Three percent is deemed by the municipal government as a threshold for a second wave of the pandemic. Reopening our buildings is paramount to our citys recovery from COVID, said de Blasio on Nov , while announcing the reopening plan for the first time. Thats why we are doubling down on the safety and health measures that work to make inperson learning a reality for so many of our students. By the time students return to buildings on Monday, a consent form for testing will be required for all students and staff, and every school will participate in weekly random testing for  percent of their inperson population. Parents can fill out the consent form online using a New York City Schools Account NYCSA at mystudent.nyc or print and sign the form and bring it to school on their first day back to buildings. Meanwhile, in the case of COVID, the safest place in the community is truly the school, and thats because schools follow basic rules, said New York State Governor Andrew Cuomo in his article posted on the news portal Newsday on Dec . The students and teachers wear masks. They practice social distancing. They frequently wash their hands. Many of the students are serious about doing their part to keep their friends and families safe, said the governor, adding that the infection rate in schools in every part of the state is lower than the surrounding community. NYCs public school system consists of approximately . million students, constituting the largest school district of the country. Those who opted not to return to their campus for inperson learning on Monday were allowed to fulfill their curriculum in the form of remote learning. As of Sunday night, coronavirus deaths added up to , and confirmed cases to , in NYC, according to The City, a project that tracks the spread of confirmed COVID infections and fatalities in New York City, based on information provided by the New York City Department of Health and Mental Hygiene, the governors office, The COVID Tracking Project and the Center for Systems Science and Engineering at Johns Hopkins University.