Latest on the COVID outbreak
2020/12/7 13:35
Here are some of the most striking images taken from around the world over the past week. A photo taken on Nov ,  shows a maskthemed shop in Yokohama, Japan. A maskthemed shop selling various maskrelated products opened on Nov  in Yokohama. The shop is expected to stay open for one month.  Migratory birds are seen by a river in Tonekabon, northern Iran on Nov , .  Mateo Johnson, , and Neah Johnson, , pose for a photo with Santa on December ,  in Seattle, Washington. Known as the Seattle Santa, he is usually booked for private events but is set up this year in a sociallydistanced snow globe for public visits during the COVID pandemic.? A bombsniffing dog is seen with members of the K unit of the Philippine Coast Guard during a bomb threat and hostagetaking response exercise at a pier in Manila, Philippines on Dec , .  Visitors photograph a bronze sculpture of a horses head, looted by invading AngloFrench forces  years ago, at Yuanmingyuan Park in Beijing after its return on Tuesday. Photo by Zou HongChina Daily People wait for the lighting of the Christmas tree at Rockefeller Center amid coronavirus restrictions in New York City on Dec , .  Invigilators hand out test papers to examinees attending the College Scholastic Ability Test in Seongnam City of Gyeonggi Province, South Korea on Dec , . South Korean students took the annual CSAT on Thursday amid a sharp resurgence of COVID infections across the country.  Kajol Dey, a disabled table tennis coach, shows different skills to his students at his coaching camp in Agartala, the capital city of Indias northeastern state Tripura, on Dec , . The International Day of Persons with Disabilities is observed annually on Dec .  Firefighters work to extinguish a fire started by an explosion at the Engen oil refinery in Durban, South Africa on Dec , .  A demonstrator holds an umbrella and a sign reading For your safety you will have no more freedoms during a protest against the Global Security Bill, that rights groups say would make it a crime to circulate an image of a police officers face and infringe journalists freedom in the country, in Paris on Dec , . 