Fauci accepts Bidens offer to be his chief medical adviser
2020/12/7 9:31
? Leaders of the Social Democratic Party PSD react to the publication of the first exit polls of the legislative election, in Bucharest, Romania, on Dec , .  BUCHAREST  Romanias main opposition Social Democratic Party PSD is likely to win the most votes in the countrys quadrennial parliamentary election on Sunday, according to a surprising exit poll jointly launched by poll agencies CURS and Avangarde as voting ended at  pm local time  GMT. The CURSAvangarde exit poll showed that PSD would likely garner . percent and . percent of the votes, respectively, in the election of the Senate and the Chamber of Deputies, over one percentage point more than its main rival  the ruling National Liberal Party PNL. The PNL was in the forefront of most polls before the election, with  percentage points higher than its opponent PSD. According to the exit poll, PNL received . percent and  percent of the votes in the Senate and the Chamber of Deputies, respectively, followed by the USRPLUS Alliance with . and . percent. Other parties, which may enter the new parliament, include the Democratic Union of Hungarians in Romania, the Alliance for Unity of Romanians, the PRO Romania Social Liberal and the Peoples Movement Party. Under special protection measures, Romania held the parliamentary election on Sunday amid the COVID pandemic, with a total of , candidates competing for seats in the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate. In order to enter the parliament, the parties must obtain over  percent of the national votes or over  percent of the votes in at least four constituencies. There are  seats in the current parliament   in the Senate and  in the Chamber of Deputies. According to the data announced by the Central Electoral Bureau BEC, the total number of eligible voters in Romania is over  million, yet the turnout rate in this general election was only . percent, the lowest level in the past  years. The ballot counting is currently underway. It is difficult to predict the final results given possible exit poll errors and the tight race. The first official results are due to be released later on Sunday night. However, no matter which of the two parties gets the best score, the winner is unlikely to win more than  percent of the votes to hold the majority in the future parliament. Therefore, the future government will almost certainly be a coalition one. The PNL has announced that it will negotiate with the USRPLUS alliance to establish a ruling coalition after the election, though it has not received a positive response from the latter so far. The election took place amid the worsened pandemic situation in the country, with the number of confirmed COVID cases surpassing half a million on Friday. Therefore, wearing face masks and maintaining social distance are rules that voters must follow in the election.