US COVID cases hit over . mln, California to enter new stayathome order
2020/12/6 15:19
? Mike Harwig wears a mask reading We Mean Business during a rally at the County Administration Building in San Diego, California, on Nov , .  WASHINGTON  More than . million people in the United States have contracted COVID so far, and the vast region of California will enter a new stayathome order on Sunday night. The number of confirmed COVID cases in the country has hit ,, as of  pm EST on Saturday GMT, and its death toll reached over ,, according to data updated by Johns Hopkins University. Daily infections in the country set a new record high of nearly , cases on Friday, according to the Associated Press. The vast region of the US state of California, including Southern California and parts of Central California, will enter a new stayathome order on Sunday night, as many parts of the state have hit the  percent or lower threshold for intensive care unit ICU capacity amid COVID surge, local health authorities said Saturday. Based on the latest ICU data, the county Southern California region which includes Los Angeles County, and San Joaquin Valley region in Central California, have dropped below  percent ICU capacity, said the California Department of Public Health in a statement. It noted that the regional stayathome order will take effect in those two regions at  pm Sunday local time GMT and will remain in effect for at least three weeks. The two regions are home to around  million people in the most populous state in the United States with a population of around  million. In response to the recent rapidly increasing number of new cases and hospitalizations from the virus, California Governor Gavin Newsom on Thursday announced plans for the regional stayathome order to contain the pandemic based on hospital capacity, which is designed to be triggered when fewer than  percent of beds are available in ICU for a region. In its latest Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report, the CDC cautioned that the United States is experiencing high levels of COVID transmission. Noting that COVID pandemic control requires a multipronged application of evidencebased strategies, the CDC highlighted a series of measures including universal face mask use, physical distancing and avoiding nonessential indoor spaces. Compelling evidence now supports the benefits of cloth face masks for both source control to protect others and, to a lesser extent, protection of the wearer, it said. A communitylevel plan for distribution of face masks to specific populations, such as those who might experience barriers to access, should be developed, the CDC added.