Global COVID responses Zero COVID Case Policy vs. Coexisting with COVID Policy
2020/12/4 22:56
Editors note How come the metropolises around the world with concentrated medical resources are so vulnerable to the COVID pandemic? Why China has managed to control the outbreak so quickly? Why Western countries and Japan are seeing a resurgence in the coronavirus outbreak? Professor Zhou Muzhi, president of Cloud River Urban Research Institute, offers his interpretation by comparing the COVID responses adopted by different countries around the world. On Jan. , , Wuhan and its surrounding cities like Ezhou and Huanggang announced the suspension of all public transportation such as bus, subway and ferry, temporary cancellation of all flights and trains departing from Wuhan, and temporary closure of all highway entrances to slow the spread of the new virus. The announcement shocked the world. On Jan. , Hubei province launched the level I public health emergency response, with other parts of China following suit until all provinces, autonomous regions and municipalities were in the highest level for a public health emergency by Jan. . At the press conference of the Joint Prevention and Control Mechanism of the State Council held on Feb. , the new infectious disease was named as the Novel Coronavirus Pneumonia NCP. Later the World Health Organization WHO renamed the disease as COVID on Feb. . As the first big city to confront the COVID outbreak, Wuhan saw a surge in coronavirus infections that crippled its medical system. As the virus continued to spread around the world, many cities saw a heavy blow to their medical services. On March , the WHO declared COVID a pandemic. In a study of the medical system overwhelmed by the pandemic, I on April  published an article titled COVID Why is medical system in metropolises so vulnerable? Hereafter referred to as the April article . The article explains why metropolises are so vulnerable to the COVID pandemic and how effective Wuhan was in response to the new disease. It was published on China.com.cn and reposted by over  media outlets like people.com.cn, xinhuanet.com and gmw.cn. On April , the English version of the article was published on China.org.cn  and later reposted by English media outlets both at home and abroad including the websites of the State Council Information Office of China and China Daily. On May , the Japanese version was published on japanese.china.org.cn. The article analyzes the good practices and lessons learned from Wuhans COVID response as well as major concerns and measures that should be taken by the medical system amid the pandemic. It serves as a reference for cities around the world in their battle against the novel coronavirus. After six months, I write this article to explore different measures and effectiveness of the global COVID responses based on the April article with some statistical updates, new diagrams and endnotes. .  ranking on health care radiation of Chinese cities As part of the China Integrated City Index, Cloud River Urban Research Institute has released the  ranking on health care radiation based on a research of  cities at prefecture level and above across China. The top  are Beijing, Shanghai, Guangzhou, Chengdu, Hangzhou, Wuhan, Jinan, Zhengzhou, Nanjing and Taiyuan. The following  are Tianjin, Shenyang, Changsha, Xian, Kunming, Qingdao, Nanning, Changchun, Chongqing, and Shijiazhuang. And the next  are Urumqi, Shenzhen, Dalian, Fuzhou, Lanzhou, Nanchang, Guiyang, Suzhou, Ningbo and Wenzhou. Please note that Wuhan, the first city to confront COVID, ranked sixth. Jointly developed by Cloud River Urban Research Institute and the Development Planning Department of the National Development and Reform Commission, China Integrated City Index is a system that evaluates growth performance of cities across the country. The institute has been publishing the city index annually since . The index measures urban development in three dimensions the environment, society and economy. Under each dimension lies many indicators that support its three subdimensions at different layers. The health care radiation is among those indicators. All of its indicators are supported by  data sets, which come from statistical data, satellite remote sensing data, and internet data. China Integrated City Index is a multimodal index to analyze and measure a citys development through statistical resources of different fields. The radiation index measures a citys capacity in providing goods and services in certain areas. A high radiation score means the city has the capacity to sell its goods and services, while a low radiation score means that it needs to purchase certain goods and services from other places. Evaluating a citys health care radiation mainly focuses on the number of physicians and the Agrade hospitals. The top  cities account for  of the certified physicians,  of hospital beds and  of Agrade hospitals in the country. Chinas medical resources, especially the best hospitals, are mainly concentrated in cities higher in the ranking, which serve local residents as well as people from all around China. The questions raised in the April article are Why cities like Wuhan, equipped with one of the top medical resources in China, could be so vulnerable to the COVID outbreak and even overwhelmed by the influx of patients? What should cities do to prepare for future epidemics? Chart  List of top  Chinese cities by health care radiation in  Source Cloud River Urban Research Institute . A test for the health care system Wuhan was the first to confront the COVID outbreak. The city climbed one place to the sixth in the  health care radiation ranking, as it boasts  Agrade hospitals, nearly , physicians, , nurses and , beds. It is hard to expect that a city with such strong health care capacity could be overwhelmed by the coronavirus epidemic. Other metropolises like New York and Milan are equally vulnerable to the pandemic. Tokyo, which declared?a?state?of?emergency on April , was also facing a breakdown of its medical system. The novel coronavirus is indeed a test for the health care system in all global cities. In the April article, I believe that three reasons are attributed to the breakdown of the cities medical system.  Overloaded hospitals One feature of the COVID epidemic is the exponential growth of infections. Especially during the early stage of the outbreak, the surge in infections and social panic have driven a lot of people, whether they were infected or not, to seek testing and treatment in hospitals. This has caused disorder, leaving those who are critically ill unable to receive efficient and quality care. It is also a reason for its high fatality rate. Moreover, the overcrowded emergency rooms, with confirmed cases, suspected patients as well as their families, can also lead to many hospitalacquired infections HAIs. Table  A comparison of medical resources in China, European countries, the US and Japan in  Sources China City Statistical Yearbook by the National Bureau of Statistics, OECD.Stat, Kaiser Family Foundation, Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare in Japan As is seen from Table , the density of physicians in the US, Japan and China are only ., . and  per , people respectively, much lower than that in Germany ., Italy  and Spain . Wuhan, with a large concentration of medical resources, has . physicians per , people, which is much higher than the national average. But the citys medical system was still overstretched by the outbreak. By May , the day before the April articles Japanese version was published, . of the COVID deaths in China had happened in Wuhan, which is believed to be caused by the overloaded hospitals. Just like in Wuhan, medical workers in the US are also concentrated in big cities. The New York state has . physicians per , people, but it is still not enough to avoid a massive breakdown in its medical system. Italy, one of the hardesthit countries in the pandemic, has a relatively high density of physicians, counting  per , people, but the country still suffers seriously overloaded hospitals and a breakdown in its health care system. In the Lombardy region where Milan is located, the number of infections has quickly risen from , on March , to over , on March , and to over , by the end of March. Many patients with critical conditions could not be treated in time due to overcrowded emergency rooms. By May , a total of , people in Italy had tested positive for COVID, and the death toll was ,, driving the fatality rate to . Japans Tokyo has . physicians per , people, lower than the level in Wuhan and the New York State. Therefore, the Japanese government has been trying to avoid overcrowded emergency rooms as a key part of its COVID response. The government has established a pretesting approval procedure to limit the number of testing and advised residents not to go to hospital during the pandemic to reduce hospitalization . Japans measures are so far effective to reduce the number of HAIs and lower the fatality rate as the medical resources are mostly given to those with critical conditions. By May , Tokyos fatality rate was ., compared to . in New York State. Table  A comparison of numbers of COVID confirmed cases, deaths, and death rates in China, European countries, the US and Japan Note Chinas number of COVID infections in this table does not include those are asymptomatic. Sources Worldometer, Kaiser Family Foundation, stopcovid.metro.tokyo.lg.jp, website of the Health Commission of Hubei Province Table  compares statistics between May  and Oct. , showing the COVID infections, death toll, fatality rate and the number of deaths per , people in China, Japan, the US and major European countries, as well as cities like Wuhan, Tokyo and New York. By May , Spain had . deaths per , infections, Italy had ., France ., the US ., and Japan only .. In this sense, Japan successfully controlled the number of deaths in the first outbreak after it avoided a breakdown in its medical system. From the statistics by May , Frances COVID fatality rate was up to ., and the U.K., Italy, and Spain also recorded doubledigit fatality rate, while the rate in China and Japan were only . and . At the same time, the global average COVID fatality rate was up to ., which dealt a heavy blow to the human society. However, from May  to Oct. , those countries and cities had seen a significant drop in COVID fatality rate. During that period, China had zero COVID death cases, while Japan controlled the rate at .. France and Spain which previously had very high fatality rate managed to lower it under . Even the US which had over , COVID deaths also lowered the rate under .. The reduction was attributable to less crowded emergency rooms compared to the early stage of the COVID outbreak. Though there is no specific medicine that can cure the disease, each country has, to some extent, found ways to treat their patients, which is also key to lowering the rate. Moreover, mass testing is another important reason. In a period of five months, the global fatality rate lowered to .. It seems that the new virus is becoming less intimidating. Actually, the rate varies widely between different age groups. Chances of a relatively younger person dying from coronavirus is much lower than that of a relatively older person. For example, Japans fatality rate in August was .. By different age groups, the rate for people who are  or younger is only ., but the figure ghastly spiked to . for those who are  or older. In his address to the Economic Club of New York on Oct. , the US President Donald Trump said that . of the infected under the age of  can survive, but the seniors who had underlying conditions have higher risks. Therefore, protecting the highrisk groups through improving the prevention and control system is key to lowering the fatality rate.  A drop in the number of health care workers A drop in the number of medical staff caused by infections is another feature in this pandemic. In the early stage of the outbreak, countries lacked knowledge of the coronavirus transmission, and medical staff faced a huge risk of infection due to the shortage of protective resources such as masks, protective clothing, and negative pressure wards. Those factors made testing, sampling, intubation, and other medical practices that are inherently at risk of exposure even more dangerous. As a result, countries have seen a significant decrease in the number of medical staff caused by infections, which also overstretched the medical system. Infections not only happen in the treatment process. In this March, the extensive isolation and infection resulted from a dinner party attended by trainee doctors from Keio University Hospital also dealt a major blow to the already scarce medical workforce in Tokyo. According to the International Council of Nurses ICN, data reported by  countries showed that at least , health care workers had been tested positive for COVID as of May . By May , Spain had , health care workers infected accounting for  of the countrys total infections and Italy had , medical staff tested positive for coronavirus, among which  physicians and  nurses died of the disease. By Sept. , ICN said nearly  million health care workers might have infected with the novel coronavirus. From January to June,  hospitals in Tokyo have reported HAIs which caused  infections among physicians, nurses and patients, and  of them had died of the disease. Those infections accounted for  of the total number of people who had coronavirus in Tokyo at that time, and the number of deaths resulted from such infections accounted for  of the total COVID death toll in the same period. HAIs could not only weaken the medical system, but also lead to new infections among those who have underlying conditions, resulting in a higher infection fatality rate. Even until October, HAIs were still frequently reported in Tokyo. For example, a hospital in Adachi confirmed on Oct.  that  patients and  staff have infected with coronavirus. A hospital in Nerima also reported  new infections, in which  were patients. The supertransmissible coronavirus has severely threatened the safety of medical staff and weakened medical capabilities, resulting in the collapse of the medical system. Therefore, it is critical to avoid HAIs during the fight against COVID.  A serious shortage of hospital beds Since the COVID outbreak, countries have experienced a shortage of medical supplies such as face masks, protective clothing, disinfectant, test kits, ventilators, extracorporeal membrane oxygenation ECMO machines, and especially, hospital beds. COVID patients are required to be treated under quarantine to curb the spread of the supertransmissible coronavirus, and severe cases should be treated in intensive care units ICUs, but hospitals have been in serious shortage of beds in general. There are up to . hospital beds per , people in Japan, the highest in the world. For Tokyo, a city with a total of , hospital beds, the figure is .. Even so, it already saw a severe shortage of hospital beds during the first COVID outbreak. In contrast to Tokyo, for every , people, Italy has a high number of doctors but only . beds, the US has only . beds, and New York has only ., which is even lower than the national average. Obviously, inadequate hospital beds have become a bottleneck that restricts medical institutions from receiving patients and hinders timely treatment. The figure in China is ., a quarter of that of Japan but higher than that of the US and Italy. Wuhan, in particular, has , beds, or . beds per , people, almost as high as that of Tokyo, but it still suffered from a serious shortage of hospital beds in the early stage of the outbreak. Another problem is that not all hospital beds are qualified for receiving COVID patients for isolation, and the scramble for medical resources has made the bed shortage even more prominent.  Lockdown policy On Jan. , , Wuhan in Hubei province suspended public transportation, closed airports, train stations and other routes leaving it, and asked people not to go outside the city, beginning the socalled lockdown. On Jan. , the next day, the whole province activated the firstlevel response mechanism for major public health emergencies according to the Response Plan for Public Health Emergencies in Hubei province. The response level specifies the degree of various measures to be taken in the identified infected area, and the firstlevel response requires to suspend work, classes and traffic to avoid any possible personnel flow and close contact. As the upperlevel regulation of the Response Plan for Public Health Emergencies of various provinces, municipalities and autonomous regions, the National Response Plan for Public Health Emergencies was formulated based on the experience of combating SARS, and was announced on June , , as one of the nations responses to public health emergencies. Subsequently, other provinces, municipalities and autonomous regions also activated the firstlevel response mechanism. As of Jan. , after the Tibet Autonomous Region activated it, all regions in the entire country had implemented the firstlevel response mechanism. Chart  Numbers of daily new COVID confirmed cases and deaths during Wuhans lockdown Note  There is no data for Jan. , the day when the city began the lockdown, as well as data for Feb. . The number of confirmed cases surged on Feb. , presumably because it was added up by the figures of the previous day. Source The official website of the Health Commission of Hubei province. Chart  shows the numbers of new confirmed COVID cases and deaths in Wuhan every day from Jan. , days before the lockdown, to Apr. , the day when the lockdown was lifted. On Feb. ,  days after the lockdown, Wuhan finally began to see a decline in its daily number of new cases after overcoming various difficulties caused by an unknown virus outbreak, such as the collapse of medical system. On Mar. ,  days after the lockdown, the figure was brought down to zero for the first time. Although a case was confirmed on Mar. , the figure remained to be zero for  consecutive days until the lockdown was lifted on Apr. . It was undoubtedly a powerful move to lock down the city by cutting off traffic, suspending work, production and classes, and putting in place other measures strictly restricting personnel flow and close contact. Wuhan finally managed to fight back the novel coronavirus after  days of lockdown. China saw the effects of its strict restriction measures throughout the country soon, and its new confirmed cases were quickly brought under control. On Feb. , Gansu province took the lead in lowering the response level from the first level to the third and resuming everyday production and life conditionally. Other regions also lowered their response levels from the first to the third since then. On June , as Hubei province lowered the level from the first to the third, the response levels across the country were brought down to the third. China has successfully addressed the first wave of COVID thanks to the strict lockdown rules that brought the number of infected cases down to zero. After that, various parts of China flexibly adjusted their response levels based on local epidemic situations. For example, Beijing raised its response level from the third to the second on June  due to a cluster of cases, and strengthened its epidemic prevention and control. As the epidemic was brought under control, Beijing lowered its response level back to the third on July .  Quick dispatch of medics In response to the serious shortage of medical personnel in Wuhan and their drop in number, the Chinese government quickly mobilized a large number of medical staff from all over the country to assist Wuhan. On Jan. , , the second day after the lockdown, the Shanghai medical team to assist Wuhan arrived in the city first. It was made up of  doctors and nurses from the respiratory departments, infectious disease departments, hospital infection management departments and intensive care medicine departments of  hospitals in Shanghai. Eventually,  medical teams involving , medical workers were dispatched to Wuhan and other parts of Hubei province. The Joint Prevention and Control Mechanism of the State Council introduced at a press conference on Mar.  that it usually takes no more than two hours from the time a medical institution receives an order to the time a medical team is set up, and takes no more than  hours from the assembly of medical team members to their arrival in Wuhan. The emergency assistance quickly alleviated the pressure on Wuhan in medical terms and effectively saved the citys medical system from collapsing. It is certain that whether a country can offer its affected area rapid and effective assistance or not is one of the keys to winning over the epidemic, but not all countries are equipped with such capabilities. Judging from the situation in New York and Tokyo, even developed countries with relatively abundant medical resources would find it difficult to mobilize a sufficient number of medical staff to offer assistance in time. What is even more worrying are those developing countries with a severe shortage of medical resources. Leaving Africa aside, even the neighboring Asian developing countries with large populations, like India and Indonesia, have only . doctors and . doctors, and . beds and one bed in medical facilities, per thousand people, respectively. In such countries with scarce medical resources and insufficient capabilities to offer national assistance, the scramble for medical resources caused by epidemic outbreaks may be extremely severe. Therefore, it is extremely urgent to organize global assistance. The problem is that most developed countries are also suffering from the COVID pandemic and can spare no time to take care of others. At this moment, Chinas medical assistance to other countries is particularly valuable.  Rapid construction of makeshift hospitals Wuhan rushbuilt the Huoshenshan Hospital and the Leishenshan Hospital for severe cases under national support. The two hospitals with high isolation levels are equipped with specialized treatment equipment, and , beds and , beds, respectively. The Huoshenshan Hospital opened on Feb. ,  days after the lockdown, and the Leishenshan Hospital was put into use on Feb. . The city also converted stadiums into  makeshift hospitals for treating mild cases, and quickly provided , beds with antibacterial and epidemic prevention levels up to those of firstclass hospitals in China. The move channeled mild cases, helping to concentrate highend medical resources on severe cases, and alleviated the scramble for medical resources. The experience of Wuhanbuilding Huoshenshan, Leishenshan and temporary treatment centers to address bed shortageis worthy of reference and learning for the world. During the first wave of the COVID pandemic, Japan required some confirmed patients to stay at home for quarantine due to insufficient beds, which was actually an extremely dangerous practice. First, it put the family members of the patients at risk and might lead to infections in clusters within the families. Second, patients could not get effective and professional treatment, and without timely update on health conditions, they might not be able to receive swift referral for treatment when the conditions deteriorated. Fortunately, the practice was largely halted later, and Japan now has also transformed facilities like hotels into isolation wards for patients with mild symptoms, in an effort to channel mild cases and relieve the pressure on hospitals. A more serious problem in Tokyo is the shortage of ICUs. By , Japan had merely . ICU beds per , people, and there was a huge gap compared with the  in the US,  in Germany, . in France, . in Italy, and . in Spain. Tokyo, which had the largest number of infected cases in Japan, had only  ICU beds, or only . per , people, when the first outbreak took place. Through various efforts, Tokyo addressed the serious shortage of ICU beds and survived the first wave. However, as the second wave arrives in autumn and winter, there will be a shortage again. A proper solution to it is a key to avoiding a potential collapse of its medical system amid an outbreak. The countries have adopted a variety of measures to address bed shortage during the outbreaks, with the US even sending naval hospital ships to assistand South Korea taking the emergency importation of a hospital as a new option. Faced with a desperate shortage of beds amid the outbreak, South Korea imported an entire Huoshenshan Hospital in slabs from the Broad Group in China. The prefabricated stainlesssteel slabs made up negative pressure isolation wards in South Korea. Equipped with fresh air systems and ozone technologies, the wards have the highest level of protection against cross infection. The project took only two days locally before the wards were put into use. . Is there a tradeoff between protecting economy and protecting peoples lives? In the responding policies taken by countries around the world to contain the pandemic, the focal point is how to strike a balance between public health and the economic impact. Through rigorous lockdown measures, China successfully contained COVID. China is currently trying hard to maintain the zero COVID case situation. Chinas COVID response can be called the Zero COVID Case Policy. On the contrary, most Western countries reopened economy when there were still infections, although they had placed various restrictions on peoples activities, such as imposing lockdowns or declaring a state of emergency. The measures taken by those countries can be called the Coexisting with COVID Policy. The second part of the article will compare the Zero COVID Case Policy and the Coexisting with COVID Policy and verify an efficient route to fight against the disease.  China Prioritizing COVID response In the aftermath of  SARS, the Chinese government formulated the Regulation on the Urgent Handling of Public Health Emergencies, the National Response Plan for Public Emergencies, and the National Response Plan for Public Health Emergencies, on the basis of the Law of the Peoples Republic of China on Prevention and Treatment of Infectious Diseases. In , the Emergency Response Law of the Peoples Republic of China was announced, further systemizing the abovementioned law, regulation and response plans. On Jan. , before Wuhan was put into a lockdown, Chinas National Health Commission released a statement to classify the novel coronavirus pneumonia as a category B infectious disease under the law on prevention and control of infectious diseases but take preventive and control measures of category A infectious diseases, meaning that the fight against COVID had been launched. It is exactly because the law, regulation and response plans mentioned above were put into place after the SARS epidemic that China could swiftly impose lockdowns, activate the toplevel public health emergency response and take other mandatory measures to curb the novel coronavirus. With a priority placed on epidemic response, mitigation measures would not be altered willfully, regardless of the economic impact. In fact, despite cries for the resumption of production and schools as soon as possible across China, the Chinese government stuck to the requirements for reopening, such as only when there were no new cases. According to Chart , China has done whatever it took in economic terms to prevent the spread of COVID, and then resumed normal economic activities soon. Seen in the longer span of time, lockdowns and level II public health emergency response were like strong medicine, but a good therapy to keep the situation under control. It is difficult to keep new case numbers at zero. Therefore, once a new infection case was spotted, China would implement strict restrictions and largescale COVID testing in the area to prevent the spread of the virus. Chart  Numbers of daily new COVID confirmed cases and deaths in China Note The number of infection cases in China marked in the chart does not include numbers of asymptomatic cases and imported cases. Source Chinas National Health Commission Report and Western countries responses On March ,  days after Wuhans lockdown, British epidemiologist Neil Ferguson and other scientists published Report  Impact of nonpharmaceutical interventions NPIs to reduce COVID mortality and healthcare demand. The report predicted that the novel coronavirus would infect eight out of  people, with , deaths in the U.K. over the next four months, if measures were not in place. Even with mitigation measures, such as isolating infected people, home quarantining, and restricting senior people to their homes, there would be still , deaths in the country. With strict lockdown rules, the death toll could be limited to ,. Ferguson told the Science and Technology Committee that the move to balance economy and COVID response while tolerating the spread of the virus to some extent was wrong, noting that lockdown was the only option. On March , one week after the report was published, the British government announced a nationwide lockdown, prohibiting residents from going out if not necessary and closing schools and most businesses. The report projected at most . million deaths in the US In the light of the report, US President Trump extended the federal social distancing guidelines, which originally expired on March , to April  . British journal Nature published a report titled The effect of largescale anticontagion policies on the COVID pandemic on June . The report analyzed the effect of policies rolled out by six countriesChina, South Korea, Italy, Iran, France and the US The report estimated that in more than three months from January to April , those six countries protected hundreds of millions of people from getting infected, through  travel restrictions,  social distancing through the cancellations of events and suspensions of educational, commercial and religious activities,  quarantines and lockdowns, and  additional policies such as emergency declarations. Despite obvious effect, lockdown measures have met a lot of resistance among many people who thought they limited human activities and wrought damage on social and economic activities. Many countries began to lift lockdowns prematurely, after the spread of COVID slowed.  Zero COVID Case Policy vs. Coexisting with COVID Policy Wuhans lockdown was lifted after it met very rigorous requirements. It was only after Wuhan had reported no new cases for the past  days that the lockdown was lifted. I think that is the radical Zero COVID Case Policy. The Chinese government issued riskgrading criteria on Feb. , classifying counties, cities and districts that report no cases or no new cases in the past  days as lowrisk areas. After successfully containing the first outbreak, China still went all out to maintain the zero case situation across the country. Once a new case was confirmed, strict restrictions and largescale testing would be implemented immediately to block the spread of COVID. For example, after three asymptomatic cases were confirmed in Qingdao of Shandong province on Oct. , the city tested its entire population and traced people moving out of the city. By Oct. , more than  million people had been tested. Contrary to China, European countries and the US lifted lockdown restrictions very soon, because they were eager to reduce the impact of COVID on their economy. A study by the Germanybased IFO Institute for Economic Research and the Helmholtz Centre for Infection Research was released on May .The study said keeping the Rt the effective reproduction number, refering