China not yet prepared to let  Max fly again
2020/12/4 9:45
A man wearing a protective mask is seen inside the Shanghai Stock Exchange building at the Pudong financial district in Shanghai, Feb , .  Economic rebound, prospect of thaw in US ties whet global players appetite A strong rebound in Chinas economy combined with hope for improved relations with the United States is spurring renewed interest among global investors for stocks trading on the Chinese mainland. The investors are betting that Chinese stocks will extend their bull run and that corporate earnings on the Chinese mainland next year will be boosted by a global economic recovery and a more predictable relationship between China and the United States. Shares on the benchmark Shanghai Stock Exchange have climbed . percent over the past year, boosted by the economys early recovery from the coronavirus pandemic. In its China outlook report, Goldman Sachs saidChina will deliver one of the strongest and fastest macro recoveries in  among major economies globally. The New Yorkbased investment bank forecasts a rebound in Chinese corporate profits and recommends staying overweight on Chinese equities. The investment term refers to a brokerage recommendation to buy more shares. Morgan Stanley also remains overweight China, forecasting solid earnings growth amid the backdrop of a strong, broadbased global recovery and a potentially more predictable trade environment. Investors may perceive the Presidentelect Joe Biden administration as a better outcome to USChina tensions or relations, at least from the trade and tariff standpoint, Kinger Lau, Goldmans chief China equity strategist, told the South China Morning Post. Main drivers Xing Ziqiang, chief economist with Morgan Stanley China, predicts that Chinas GDP growth will be nearly  percent next year, and the main drivers will be consumption and investment in the manufacturing and export sectors. Morgan Stanley identified several industries that will benefit from Chinas focus on innovation, technology localization and consumption upgrades. They include highend manufacturing, healthcare, biotech, defense and aerospace. Chinas factory sector activity grew at its fastest pace in a decade in November, according to a business survey released on Tuesday. The Caixin China General Manufacturing Purchasing Managers Index rose to . last month, compared with . in October, said the report by media Caixin. A reading above  indicates economic expansion, below  indicates contraction. Manufacturing continued to recover and the economy increasingly returned to normality as fallout from the domestic COVID epidemic faded, wrote Wang Zhe, senior economist at Caixin Insight Group. Qin Peijing, an analyst at Citic Securities, told the South China Morning Post Chinas recovery is secure, and good expectations about the economies overseas will strengthen on the progress on the vaccines. Chinas benchmark CSI  Index is expected to rise around  percent in , Morgan Stanley predicts. Goldman forecasts a  percent gain in the index, while UBS expects an increase of about  percent. Chinese regulators have been courting foreign investors with accelerated moves to open up Chinas capital markets. Fund giants including BlackRock, JPMorgan and Vanguard have boosted their exposure to Chinese equities this year, according to Citic Securities. International appetite for access to Chinese financial markets is at an alltime high, said Justin Chan, head of Greater China, Global Markets, at HSBC. Paul Colwell, head of the advisory portfolio group for Asia at insurance brokerage Willis Towers Watson, told CNBC on Monday For investors ...they need to have more of their investment portfolios allocated into China. Agencies contributed to this story.