The most remarkable achievement of our times
2021/9/28 10:00
A visitor right checks out cosmetic contact lenses at a booth during the China Joy exhibition on July , . Photo by HU YIYIFOR CHINA DAILY Chinas cosmetic contact lens market is rapidly growing, with domestic players on the rise as consumers pay increasing attention to appearance. Lu Yiyi, a yearold white collar worker in Beijing, has a small drawer specifically used to store her cosmetic contact lenses. The dozens of boxes of lenses are carefully categorized by color, brand and diameter. Apart from US, European, Japanese and South Korean brands, domestic brands are gradually taking a share in Lus assortment. I have begun to turn to domestic cosmetic contact lens companies as I find such Chinese products are improving, she said. Lu is among the millions of cosmetic contact lenses consumers in China. Data from Beijingbased investment company Cyanhill Capital showed that in , Chinas sales revenue of cosmetic contact lenses totaled  billion yuan . billion, with a compound annual growth rate of  percent between  and . Compared with the  percent market penetration rate in some developed countries, Chinas penetration rate for cosmetic contact lenses was merely . percent, demonstrating its huge growth potential. Intelligent information platform MobTech estimated that by , Chinas cosmetic contact lens market will reach  billion yuan. China is expected to become the top cosmetic contact lens market by that year. Industry experts said that cosmetic contact lenses not only solve the problem of myopia, but also visually enlarge eyes and make them appear brighter. In the pandemic era, when people have to wear face masks and eyes are often the only part of faces visible, females place more importance on eye makeup and the wearing of cosmetic contact lenses. Amid this trend, domestic brands are gaining increasing popularity. During last years Double Eleven shopping festival, the Tmall flagship store of Shanghaibased cosmetic contact lens company Moody, which was founded in January , sold nearly  million yuan worth of cosmetic contact lenses. In , its gross merchandise volume surpassed  million yuan. Less than one year after opening shop, the GMV of Beijingbased cosmetics contact lens company Cofancy also surpassed  million yuan. Its bestselling product set a record of , unit sales in just one minute during last years Double Eleven shopping spree. Due to their increasing popularity, investors are also favoring homegrown brands. In May , Cofancy received an investment of over  million yuan. Five months later, Shantou, Guangdong provincebased Kilala announced an investment of nearly  million yuan. In February, Moody completed two rounds of investment, with a total amount of  million yuan. In March, Shanghaibased iNLOOK completed an investment worth of  million yuan. Industry experts said that just like homegrown cosmetics brands, domestic cosmetic contact lens companies are good at taking advantage of marketing strategies to quickly grab market share. They invite key opinion leaders on online content platforms, such as Xiaohongshu, Douyin and Bilibili, to recommend cosmetic contact lenses to consumers. The KOL sharing cultivates user consumption habits and sense of beauty, encouraging them to buy products. Brands also invite celebrities to be spokespersons of cosmetic contact lenses as these wellknown cultural figures help direct online traffic to products, and fans tend to trust their idols choices. Meanwhile, they use intellectual property and cobranding to build up brand cachet. From artists such as Claude Monet and Alphonse Maria Mucha to cartoon characters Pretty Guardian Sailor Moon and Chibi Maruko, companies put the IPs on the cosmetic contact lenses packages to attract consumers. Moody teamed up with South Korean popular IP Line Friends, while iNLOOK cooperated with Hello Kitty, winning the hearts of consumers. However, behind innovative marketing strategies are rising costs. Chen Yu, founder of iNLOOK, said during an interview with online finance media Caijingtuya that the gross profit rate of OEM players is around  percent. Consumers are paying over half the price for KOLs, spokespersons and IPs, market insiders said.