Boeing raises year forecast for China aircraft demand despite pandemic
2020/12/4 8:10
People visit the recent ART fair, which took place from Nov  to  at the Shanghai Exhibition Center, during the second Shanghai International Art Trade Month.?Photo provided to China Daily Exhibition venues were filled to capacity and artworks flew off the shelves at the recently concluded Shanghai International Art Trade Month. Boasting healthy sales and hordes of visitors attending its host of art fairs and exhibitions, the second Shanghai International Art Trade Month illustrated that consumers appetite for art has hardly been dampened by the pandemic. Founded by Shanghais Xuhui district in , the SIATM is aimed at developing Shanghai into a global center for art trade and cultural industries. Though the SIATM has yet to announce the total trade volume during the event, preliminary signs have painted the event as a success. For example, C Galleria, which was holding a solo exhibition of US artist Kelly Beeman, had within the first two hours of its preview sold all but one oil painting and a watercolor piece. Based in Los Angeles and Hong Kong, C Galleria was attending the ART fair, which took place from Nov  to  at the Shanghai Exhibition Center. A total of  galleries and institutions from  countries took part in this fair. Beemans works were especially popular with young visitors who constantly gathered in front of the paintings to take pictures. Many could also be found discussing the prices of the artworks. We were overwhelmed by peoples enthusiasm at ART, says Conan Lou, a representative of the gallery. However, the popularity of Keemans works with collectors in Shanghai was not unexpected, Lou says. A visitor views an artwork at the ART fair.?Photo provided to China Daily Two years ago, we introduced the artist to Shanghai in a commercial event, and since then she has made some successful collaborations with luxury brands, too. This is why so many people are familiar with her work and came especially for them at the fair, he explains. On Nov , during the VIP preview of ART, which has been the leading art fair in Shanghai for eight consecutive years, security personnel had to constantly remind visitors to maintain social distancing and wear masks as the exhibition area was packed to capacity. Many of the artworks at the fair also had red dots affixed to them, indicating that they were already sold. Another gallery in attendance at the SIATM was Matthew Liu Fine Arts, which has been participating in ART and the West Bund Art Design fair for three consecutive years. While ART was much about buying, the West Bund event provided a better setting for galleries to present their academic profiles, says Liu, the founder of the gallery. One of the main events of the SIATM, West Bund Art  Design, took place from Nov  to . This is the seventh year the art fair has taken place at the West Bund area in Xuhui district. The fair, which showcased more than , artworks from more than  galleries around the world, made  million yuan . million worth of sales on its opening day. For the first time this year, an online exhibition was introduced at West Bund Art  Design because of the pandemic. According to organizers, the online exhibition garnered more than a million page views during the event. This year, the pandemic has forced many overseas art fairs to be canceled or postponed. The momentum of the international art market, which was held back by the pandemic, has been released in Shanghai, says Liu, who sold five art works within the first two hours of the fairs preview. Chinas art collectors are quite a unique group of people, Liu tells China Daily. They are very young, often in their s. Ive seen a lot of young Chinese collectors aged around , and few of them aged  or above, he says. They are very open to international trends and eager to learn. They are ready to accept all kinds of art, be it video or new media. While a booming community of private museums and art institutions has been aggressively buying art to shore up their collections, Chinas young whitecollars have also been getting in on the action. Among them is Jin Yi, a public relations manager. Ive been buying a painting every year. These paintings cost around , yuan, no more than buying a luxury bag, she says. I enjoy having my life surrounded by art. Besides, if any one of these artists become famous by the time my yearold daughter grows up, I will be able to pass on to her a valuable asset.