Shenzhen reports one new asymptomatic COVID case
2020/12/3 11:02
A woman rides an electric scooter wearing a protective mask, amid the continuous spread of the coronavirus disease COVID pandemic, along Standvagen in Stockholm, Sweden, Nov , .  Swedens public health authority has made another policy Uturn amid growing evidence that the nation faces a dangerous winter with the novel coronavirus pandemic. Contradicting earlier advice, the agency now says children who live with somebody infected by the coronavirus should stay at home and not go to school or nursery. It comes as the latest data showed the nation is now fighting a second wave in the pandemic and critics argue that Sweden has underestimated the potential for asymptomatic transmission of COVID. Last month Swedish Prime Minister Stefan Lofven was forced to change strategy, implementing new measures that also include a ban on public gatherings of more than eight people. Also last month, State epidemiologist Anders Tegnell, who has advocated the countrys liberal approach to the outbreak, admitted that Sweden has seen no signs of herd immunity slowing the spread of COVID as new infection numbers soar. The highprofile scientist had claimed that Sweden would fare better than other countries in the second wave after building up a higher level of immunity. But Tegnell now says it is still not clear to what extent transmission rates are reduced when more people have been exposed to the virus. In an interview with Bloomberg on Tuesday, Tegnell said it is very hard to understand. He said Its obvious that it does slow down transmission, but its been difficult to understand how large that effect is and how it should be weighed against other factors that speed up transmission. That balance may have been different than I and many others believed. Swedens main ruling party, the Social Democrats, saw a significant decline in support in a fresh poll, adding to signs that voters are worried about the nations COVID strategy. In total, , people have died with COVID in the country, one of the highest per capita death rates in Europe, and a higher rate than neighbors Norway, Denmark and Finland. Sweden reported  deaths with COVID in the two weeks to Friday. Observers say the government is now sidelining the controversial Tegnell. Theres certainly a split, and Im pretty sure that many in the government have rather lost faith in the public health agency, said Nicholas Aylott, an associate politics professor at Stockholms Sodertorn University, quoted by the Daily Telegraph. By some counts, weve now got exactly the same level of spread of the virus that we had in the spring, and thats about as clear a refutation of Tegnells strategy as you could wish for. Joacim Rocklov, an epidemiologist at the Umea university, told the Financial Times the country had suffered a systemic failure, in large part due to it underplaying the risks of asymptomatic transmission. Theres been no testing of asymptomatic people, not even those returning from holidays abroad. Its a mistake, he said. Rocklov said it looked like Sweden was now changing strategy. People are realizing that it has been dangerous guesswork over the second wave being less severe. Its starting to change public opinion.