Shenzhen reports one new asymptomatic COVID case
2020/12/3 10:09
A man wearing a protective face mask buys alcohol at a liquor store as South Africa lifts a lockdown lasting two months, to try to revive the economy amid the spread of the coronavirus disease COVID, in Soweto, South Africa, June , .  The COVID pandemic has severely affected Africas economy and is likely to exacerbate its internal economic problems such as the low growth, high debt dilemma if proper measures are not taken, a report by the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences said. The Annual Report on Development in Africa  was coreleased by the Institute of WestAsian and African Studies of the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences, the ChinaAfrica Institute, and the Social Sciences Academic Press China. The report said Africa is not yet the worst affected region in terms of the number of confirmed coronavirus cases, but given the vulnerability of African economies and their dependence on the outside world, the pandemic will have a profound impact on African economies far greater than the  global financial crisis. Nearly  percent of COVID cases are in  countries, whose economic aggregate accounts for about  percent of that of the whole continent, the report said. Hao Rui, general manager of the research and development department of the ChinaAfrica Development Fund and an author of the report, said that in the past few years, Africas economy has shown significant fluctuations and even declines, with growth at less than  percent on average and its foreign debts keep going up. The pandemic aggravated the situation this year. Severe effects Global institutions have all predicted that the pandemic will bring severe effects on Africas economy, and the continents economic growth will continue to decline, Hao said. Moreover, the economic growth rate of African countries is significantly lower than the population growth rate, which means that without appropriate measures, the livelihood of African people will be affected. The pandemic has slowed down world economic growth and led to a sharp drop in commodity prices, which greatly reduced Africas exports of agricultural and mineral resources, including copper and iron ore. The African Union estimates Africa will see a loss of  billion in trade in goods this year, the report said. It added that the disruptions in global supply chains have also inflicted a huge blow to Africas already fragile manufacturing sector. While all business activities have stagnated, African countries fiscal income has been reduced greatly, but their expenses keep growing. The African Union said fighting the epidemic will cost Africa an additional  billion in public spending, and countries have to embark on stimulus packages to save economies ravaged by the pandemic, adding to the fiscal pressures faced by African countries. He Yun, an assistant professor at the School of Public Administration at Hunan University, said that China and Africa need to accelerate innovation to achieve highquality development of economic and trade cooperation.