Equity investors gazing toward China for
2020/12/2 10:47
A man wearing a protective mask is seen inside the Shanghai Stock Exchange building at the Pudong financial district in Shanghai, Feb , .  With the strong rebound of Chinas economy along with hope for improved relations with the United States, global investors are looking to stocks on the Chinese mainland. Investors are betting Chinese stocks will extend their bull run and that mainland corporate earnings in  will be boosted by a global economic recovery and a more predictable SinoAmerican relationship. Chinese mainland stocks already have climbed more than  percent this year due to the economys early recovery from the novel coronavirus pandemic. In its China outlook report, Goldman Sachs said, China will deliver one of the strongest and fastest macro recoveries in  among major economies globally. The New York investment bank forecasts a rebound in Chinese corporate profits and recommends staying overweight Chinese equities. Morgan Stanley also remains overweight China, forecasting solid earnings growth amid the backdrop of a strong, broadbased global recovery and a potentially more predictable trade environment once Presidentelect Joe Biden replaces President Donald Trump in the White House. Investors may perceive the Biden administration as a better outcome to USChina tensions or relations, at least from the trade and tariff standpoint, Kinger Lau, Goldmans chief China equity strategist, told the South China Morning Post SCMP. Xing Ziqiang, chief economist with Morgan Stanley China, predicted that Chinas GDP growth will be nearly  percent next year, and the main drivers will be consumption, investment in manufacturing and exports. Morgan Stanley identified several industries that will benefit from Chinas focus on innovation, technology localization and consumption upgrades. They include highend manufacturing, healthcare, biotech, defense and aerospace. Chinas factory sector activity grew at its fastest pace in a decade in November, according to a business survey released Tuesday. The Caixin China General Manufacturing Purchasing Managers Index PMI rose to . last month, the highest level in a decade and compared with . in October, said the report by media group Caixin. Manufacturing continued to recover and the economy increasingly returned to normality as fallout from the domestic Covid epidemic faded, wrote Wang Zhe, senior economist at Caixin Insight Group. Chinas recovery is secure, and good expectations about the economies overseas will strengthen on the progress on the vaccines, Qin Peijing, an analyst at Citic Securities, told the SCMP. Chinas benchmark CSI Index is expected to rise around  percent in , Morgan Stanley predicts. Goldman forecasts a  percent gain in the index, while UBS expects an increase of about  percent. Chinese regulators have been courting foreign investors with accelerated moves to open up Chinas capital markets. Fund giants including BlackRock, JPMorgan and Vanguard already have boosted their exposure to Chinese equities this year, according to Citic Securities, and foreign inflows will likely accelerate further. International appetite for access to Chinese financial markets is at an alltime high, said Justin Chan, head of Greater China, Global Markets, HSBC. A steady stream of developments, from index inclusion to Stock and Bond Connect schemes, is opening this market like never before, and yieldhungry investors from across the world are piling in. In a survey published last week by HSBC of nearly , top global institutional investors and large corporations,  percent of them said they plan to increase their China portfolios by an average of  percent over the next  months. Among the equity investors,  percent are looking to increase China exposure. For investors to properly position their portfolios for the postCOVID world ahead, in the new world order, they need to have more of their investment portfolios allocated into China, Paul Colwell, head of the advisory portfolio group for Asia at insurance brokerage Willis Towers Watson, told CNBC on Monday. Geopolitical diversification is going to be a much more important portfolio  consideration in the years ahead. Colwell said global investors are weighted only about  percent in Chinese equities. He said they should scale up to  percent over the next decade. The internationalization of RMB will send the average inflow of foreign capital into China between  and  to  billion to  billion, according to Xing of Morgan Stanley China. However, foreign buying could let up next year, as rapid stock valuationexpansion and currency appreciation make the onshore stocks expensive relative to shares trading in Hong Kong, according to New Times Securities, the SCMP reported. Chinese mainland stocks are now more than  percent more expensive than those in Hong Kong. Also a concern for investors is Chinas appreciating currency. Jim Collins, CEO of Excelsior Capital Partners in New York, told China Daily, I am sure that electriccar stocks will keep flying, but I think the biggest factor impacting Chinese stocks in  will be currency. If the RMB continues to strengthen, I think investors will find cheaper plays elsewhere. We like some of the Ashares, but generally its quite expensive, Andrew Gillan of Janus Henderson Investors in Singapore said of the Chinese mainland stock market. Reuters contributed to this story.