Cybersecurity, b market by yearend
2020/12/2 9:59
Former coronavirus patients perform aerobic exercise as part of their recovery therapy at a rehabilitation center in Mexico City on Monday. EDGARD GARRIDOREUTERS With fall in global new infections last week, alarm raised on holiday laxity While last week saw the first decline in newly reported COVID cases globally since September, the World Health Organization, or WHO, warned on Monday against complacency, especially in the upcoming holiday season. The decrease was due to a drop in new cases in Europe thanks to the effectiveness of difficult but necessary measures put in place in recent weeks, WHO DirectorGeneral Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus told a virtual news conference from Geneva. This is welcome news, but it must be interpreted with extreme caution. Gains can easily be lost, and there was still an increase in COVID cases in most other regions of the world, and an increase in deaths, he said. This is no time for complacency, especially with the holiday season approaching in many cultures and countries. Some European Union nations have eased lockdown measures ahead of the Christmas season. In Belgium, all nonessential shops will be allowed to reopen on Tuesday in a responsible fashion. People have to shop alone and can only stay in a shop for a maximum  minutes. France started its easing on Saturday, allowing small businesses to reopen. The perimeter of daily outings for residents has been widened from one to  kilometers. More easings of the restrictions are expected in the middle of this month if infection rates and occupancy rates at hospital intensive care units stay below a set level. Tedros warned people that being with family and friends is not worth the risk for themselves or others. We all need to consider whose life we might be gambling with in the decisions we make, he said. He said people should ask themselves if they need to travel, adding that for many, this is a season for staying home and staying safe. Celebrate with your household avoid gatherings with many different households and families coming together, he said. The WHO chief advised that people should try to meet outdoors if they have to gather with people from a different household and maintain social distancing while wearing a mask. He cautioned those who have to travel to do so with precautions to minimize the risk. The Schengen Area member states, which have open borders within the grouping, are debating whether certain countries should open their ski resorts, which were blamed for contributing to virus spread in early spring. There is no zero risk Maria Van Kerkhove, the WHOs technical lead on COVID, said the UN agency looks at whether people can reduce the opportunities for them to be infected. Right now, there is no zero risk, she said. Mike Ryan, executive director of the WHOs Health Emergencies Programme, said the WHO does not take a stand on whether ski resorts should be opened. Its time for government to look at the risk management, he said. He pointed out that the risk is not skiing itself, but the places where people exchange locations, such as planes, buses, ski lifts and places where people come together in large numbers. On Monday, Tedros also warned against the politicization in the study of the origin of the novel coronavirus from some parts of the world. The US government has for months played a blame game about COVID, accusing both China and the WHO and often using racist and stigmatizing words. I can assure you that WHOs position is very very clear. We need to know the origin of this virus because it can help us to prevent future outbreaks, Tedros said. The agency has already announced a team of international experts for the study.