Chinese shares close lower Monday
2020/12/2 8:50
Residents submit COVID test samples at a testing center in Hang Hau, Tseung Kwan O, Hong Kong, on Tuesday.?CALVIN NGCHINA DAILY More social distancing, COVID testing urged amid latest wave of infections to hit city Hong Kong is rolling out some of its toughest social distancing measures to quell a resurgence of COVID cases, after the city saw an average of  daily confirmed cases last week. The moves include workfromhome practices for the citys nearly , civil servants and shutdowns of major entertainment venues. The special administrative region is also set to at least double the fine for violations of the social distancing rules, while a medical expert suggested expanding COVID testing to cut the transmissions. The city on Tuesday recorded  newly confirmed COVID cases, including  untraceable ones and  related to the citys largest infection cluster, which originated from dance studios and now has more than  confirmed cases. There were also at least  people who preliminarily tested positive for the virus on Tuesday. The citys total number of confirmed cases reached ,, with  related deaths so far. Hong Kong has been hit by a fourth wave of infections since midNovember and more than  confirmed infections have been untraceable in the past week alone. Affected by the deteriorating pandemic, the citys quarantinefree travel bubble with Singapore was deferred to beyond , the Hong Kong government announced on Tuesday. Announcing the latest restrictions on Monday, Chief Executive Carrie Lam Cheng Yuetngor cited health experts warnings that the fourth wave could continue to escalate. The government is set to at least double the current fixed penalty of HK,  for violating the antipandemic measures such as the mandatory wearing of masks in public, mandatory testing orders and bans on gatherings, Lam said. In light of the large number of Hong Kong students expected to return to the city for the Christmas holidays, two hotels were enlisted to serve as quarantine centers, providing about  rooms. Lam again brushed off the feasibility of imposing a mandatory universal testing program, quoting government health experts as saying that the move is not an effective and scientifically based option. Local respiratory specialist Leung Chichiu said that it is necessary to tighten social distancing as it will reduce group gatherings, such as the Sunday gettogethers of foreign domestic workers. He also noted that purely relying on these measures is not enough. The government still needs to strengthen testing services to ensure that all residents who are willing to get tested can do so. Local resident Kuk Tinman said that the government has done a good job in striking a balance between peoples freedom and the need for social distancing to contain the pandemic. It was a selfish minority who were disrupting those efforts. Local residents needed to seriously consider the safety of their family members, she said. Its not that difficult to strictly follow the measures for a little longer. Risking the spread of the virus in the community just to satisfy our own desires, thats rather selfish, said Kuk, adding that she welcomed the move to increase the penalty for violators of the antipandemic measures and impose stricter supervision of overseas arrivals, given the expected wave of overseas Hong Kong students returning to the city.