Vaccine partnership hailed in Indonesia
2020/12/2 7:45
The city of Manzhouli in the Inner Mongolia autonomous region is ready to conduct a second round of coronavirus tests starting on Friday afternoon for more than , residents across the city, the local government said. .com Stricter measures put in place including extensive tracing to prevent further spread The city of Manzhouli, in the Inner Mongolia autonomous region, reported eight positive results in its second round of coronavirus tests, Friday afternoon to Sunday, for its , residents. Seven people were diagnosed as having confirmed symptoms of COVID, and one was diagnosed as asymptomatic, Manzhouli ViceMayor Guo Xiaofang said at a news conference on Tuesday. Epidemiological investigations of the new cases are being conducted, she said, adding that more than , close contacts of the patients have been traced and put under quarantine for medical observation. Manzhouli, the largest rail land port on the ChinaRussia border, has been strictly checking the Russian drivers and reducing the number of Chinese workers at the ports freight yards, and it has also increased disinfection measures to reduce the risk of imported infections. The city has adopted strict measures among the residential communities in three mediumrisk areas for COVID. Special workers have been assigned to provide for the needs of people quarantined in each unit of the residential buildings, said Guo. A passenger wearing mask is seen on a bus in the ChinaRussia border city of Manzhouli in North Chinas Inner Mongolia autonomous region, on April , .  In addition, two professional disinfection teams have finished disinfecting where the patients live and work as well as where people have been isolated, a total area of more than , square meters, said Wang Hongquan, director of the citys disease control and prevention center. It is necessary to wear masks and to go to a hospital immediately if you have symptoms, including fever, physical weakness and dry cough, he said. As of Tuesday, the city had reported  local confirmed cases, two suspected cases and two asymptomatic cases since the first two confirmed cases were reported on Nov . In Shandong province, an asymptomatic coronavirus infection was reported Monday night in Jiaozhou, a countylevel city in Qingdao, the Qingdao health commission said, adding that the man was among those who had received routine nucleic acid tests. A total of  contacts have been found and all were tested. Of those,  results so far came back negative. Coldchain management In response to the new cases and the recent outbreak weeks ago in some domestic cities, such as Tianjin, coldchain food management has been given extra attention, and stricter controls have been placed on related matters like storage and delivery since they were identified as possible sources of infection. Jinan, Shandong province, released a notice on Tuesday that it began using special warehouses to collect imported frozen food that lacks inspection, quarantine and disinfection documentation. Beijing will tighten epidemic prevention in the transportation sector including strengthening the management of airport freight areas and related business units and conducting regular nucleic acid testing workers in freight areas. Zhao Ruixue in Jinan and Du Juan in Beijing contributed to the story.