Hong Kong tightens social distancing rules
2020/12/2 7:23
Photo taken on July ,  shows the Golden Bauhinia Square in Hong Kong, July , .  Hong Kong readopted on Wednesday its social distancing rules for two weeks to quell a resurgence of COVID cases after the city saw an average of  confirmed cases per day last week. The measures, already known to Hong Kong residents from the citys third round of the pandemic in July, include having the citys nearly , civil servants work from home, a ban on gatherings of more than two people and the closure of some entertainment venues. The government will at least double the fine for violations of the social distancing rules. In addition to the tightened social distancing rules, a medical expert has suggested that the government expand its testing ability to cut the transmissions. Hong Kong recorded  newly confirmed COVID cases on Tuesday, including  that are untraceable and  related to the dance studio cluster, which is the citys largest infection cluster and has involved over  confirmed cases. At least  people preliminarily tested positive on Tuesday and the citys confirmed case total reached ,, with  deaths. Hong Kong was hit by its fourth wave of infections since midNovember, and in the past week alone, more than  confirmed cases were untraceable. Because of the deteriorating situation, the Hong Kong government announced on Tuesday it would defer its muchexpected first quarantinefree travel plan with Singapore for the rest of the year at least. Announcing the revised restrictions on Monday, Chief Executive Carrie Lam Cheng Yuetngor quoted four public health advisers as warning that this fourth wave of COVID could continue to escalate. Quarantine centers To cope with that, the government intends to at least double the fixed penalty of HK, for violations of antiCOVID regulations, such as the mandatory wearing of masks in public and testing order, and the ban on gathering, Lam said. In light of the huge number of Hong Kong students expected to return to the city for the Christmas holiday, two hotels were enlisted to serve as quarantine centers, providing about  rooms. However, Lam again brushed off as unfeasible imposing a mandatory universal testing program, quoting the four governments expert advisers as saying its not an effective and scientifically based option. Local respiratory specialist Leung Chichiu said on Tuesday that its necessary to tighten social distancing rules as it will reduce group gatherings. He added, however, that purely relying on these measures is not enough. The government still needs to strengthen the testing service to ensure that all residents who are willing to get tested are able to do so. Local resident Kuk Tinman said the government has done a good job in striking a balance between peoples freedom and the need for social distancing, but a selfish minority have ruined the efforts. She strongly pleaded that residents have more consideration for the safety of their family members. Its not a big deal to discipline ourselves for a little longer. To satisfy ones own desire and spread the virus into community, that is a rather selfish act, Kuk said. She is open to the government increasing the penalty for violators of antiCOVID regulations and imposing stricter supervision on overseas arrivals, given the expected Christmas wave of overseas Hong Kong students returning to the city.