Central govts HK assistance to be unveiled
2020/12/1 15:16
? A bystander wearing a face mask watches as giant Olympic rings, which were temporarily taken down in August for maintenance amid the coronavirus disease COVID outbreak, are reinstalled at the waterfront area at Odaiba Marine Park in Tokyo, Japan Dec , .  TOKYO  A giant set of Olympic rings returned to Tokyos waterfront on Tuesday after maintenance, with officials hoping the symbol will help build enthusiasm for the coronaviruspostponed Games. Promising vaccine trials have boosted Tokyos hopes of holding the Olympics, now scheduled to open July ,  after the pandemic forced the unprecedented decision to delay. The ton interlocking rings were installed in Tokyos Odaiba bay area at the start of the year as the city began the final countdown to the Games, but were towed away in August for maintenance and inspections. They returned Tuesday with a fresh coat of paint and plans to light them up at night. We are working very hard so that we can hold an Olympic Games in which people will feel safe, Tokyo city government official Atsushi Yanashimizu told reporters. With the installation of the Olympic symbol, we would like more people to feel that the event is approaching soon and to feel excited about it. A poll in July showed that just one in four people in Japan wanted to see the Games held in , with most backing either a further delay or a cancellation. There are also reportedly concerns among sponsors, with organisers tightlipped on how many will extend their contracts. Olympic and Japanese officials have said they remain committed to holding the Games next year, and International Olympic Committee head Thomas Bach said in Tokyo last month he was very, very confident that spectators will be able to attend. The rings will stay in place until the end of the Olympics, and will then be replaced by the Paralympics symbol in midAugust. We would like many people to come here and see it and feel the momentum, while being cautious about virus prevention, said Yanashimizu. AFP