Coronavirus pandemic starts from north Italy, says German virologist
2020/12/1 10:53
? People wearing protective face masks walk at a local market, amid the spread of the coronavirus disease COVID, in Istanbul, Turkey November , .  ANKARA  Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan announced on Monday a series of new measures, including full weekend lockdown, to curb the spread of the COVID pandemic. The weekend curfew will start at  p.m. on Fridays and end at  a.m. on Mondays, while overnight lockdown will be imposed from  p.m. to  a.m. every weekday, Erdogan said at a press conference after the cabinet meeting. We take our steps carefully not to turn it into social or economic crisis, Erdogan told reporters, noting the new measures will take effect on Tuesday. Some businesses, including supply chain, production, health and agriculture services, will be exempt from the curfew, he said. Groceries, slaughter houses and supermarkets will offer delivery services within the limited time frame, while cafes and restaurants will continue to be restricted to takeaway services, according to the Turkish President. The kindergartens will be closed, Erdogan noted. Turkey has already introduced distance learning for highergrade students until the end of the year. Turkey has been imposing a partial lockdown for people aged over  and under , but the President on Monday added they will also not be able to use public transportation. The citizens will be asked for their HES Life Fits into Home codes, a mandatory application introduced by the Ministry of Health to show citizens health status, when entering shopping malls. The number of people participating in weddings or funerals will be limited to . Erdogan said Turkey will begin free COVID vaccinations for Turkish citizens in December as the government has purchased  million doses for the initial phase. In midNovember, the Turkish government reimposed partial lockdowns on weekends, closed and allowed only delivery for restaurants and cafes, introduced new working hours for businesses, and suspended all activities of gaming halls, clubs and football fields across the country. The new restrictions have come after a fresh sharp rise in COVID cases and fatalities. Turkey reported on Monday , new coronavirus cases, including , symptomatic patients, as the total number of symptomatic COVID patients in the country increased to ,. The death toll from coronavirus in Turkey rose by  to ,, while the total recoveries climbed to , after , more patients recovered in the last  hours. The rate of pneumonia in COVID patients stands at . percent and the number of seriously ill patients is , in the country. Turkey reported the first COVID case on March .