Britain to change subsidy policy for farming in the postBrexit era
2020/12/1 9:34
A woman holds a pumpkin amongst pumpkins and squashes seen as part of a display, depicting a giant pumpkin wearing a face mask at Sunnyfields Farm, in Southampton, Britain, Oct , .  The amount of state subsidies that farmers in the United Kingdom receive will be more dependent on the contribution they make to the environment under new plans set out by the British government. New policy will transform the way the UK agriculture industry is supported after the Brexit transition period ends on Dec , in the nations most significant change to farming and land management in  years. Wildlife, nature and the climate will benefit from the farming shakeup with subsidy funds paid to restore wild habitats, create new woodlands, boost soils and cut pesticide use. Grants will also be paid from a farming investment fund for equipment and technology such as robots and new infrastructure such as water storage on farms. The new Environmental Land Management ELM system will replace European Union policy, where farmers received taxpayers money based on the amount of land they farm. Once outside the EU, the nation is no longer bound by the EUs Common Agricultural Policy and is free to introduce a new system that it thinks may be more tailored to the interests of English farmers. The . billion pound . billion direct payments that farmers receive every year for simply owning land will be phased out over seven years up to , the government said. The biggest reductions will be in the highest payment bands, with the wealthiest landowners facing the sharpest cuts. Those receiving annual payments over , pounds a year will start with a  percent cut next year, increasing to  percent by . Those receiving under , pounds will begin with a  percent cut next year. The new policy has not been well received by farming and environmental groups, with many stating it lacked the detail to give farmers confidence that postBrexit Britain would support the sector. In a statement, Mark Bridgeman, president of the Country Land and Business Association that represents , rural businesses, said the ELM scheme had the potential to be a genuinely worldleading policy but the transition was fraught with risk. Many farmers will find it hard to see past the drastic cuts to the basic payment scheme, that begins next year. In a speech on Monday at a farming conference, Environment Secretary George Eustice said We want farmers to access public money to help their businesses become more productive and sustainable, whilst taking steps to improve the environment and animal welfare, and deliver climate change outcomes on the land they manage. Rather than the prescriptive, top down rules of the EU era, we want to support the choices that farmers and land managers take.