Denmark backs off order to kill minks infected with virus
2020/12/1 9:08
Photo by Gerelchuluun After keeping novel coronavirus at bay inside its borders for nine months, Mongolia recorded its first local COVID case this month, already surpassing the number of imported cases. Mongolia locked down its capital with a few other provinces, and implemented travel restriction on interprovinces. According to the recent survey run by the Mongolian National Chamber of Commerce and Industry of , companies, , workers have been laid off and  percent of companies have fully paused their business, while only  percent of companies let their employees work from home, with the exception of  sectors, such as hospitals, the military, the police and grocery stores. Urban residents are allowed to go out only to pick up necessities, like groceries. Rules are laxer for the  percent of the population living in Mongolias hinterlands, where breeding livestock, especially goats raised for their extremely soft natural fiber, cashmere, is a way of life. But though life mostly goes on without masking or social distancing, the coronavirus outbreak has presented new challenges for these herders as the price for cashmere plummeted. With climate change already threatening their way of life, herders are troubleshooting how to make it through two crises at once. Photo by Gerelchuluun Banzragch, a yearold herder who lives far from the crowds,  km away from the capital, Ulaanbaatar, in the far west of Mongolia, said he doesnt have the slightest fear of getting infected, but with demand for cashmere dropping, he is concerned. Cashmere prices fell whereas fodder prices increased. There is no grass to eat for livestock. I wonder how many of them can overcome the incoming harsh winter said Banzragch. Cashmere is considered the main source of income for , families, and more than onethird of the population is involved in its production. Mongolia is considered one of the top suppliers for the worlds cashmere, its top nonmineral export, which makes up around . percent of its GDP. In the wake of the pandemic, Mongolias GDP decreased by . percent in the first  months of , according to the National Statistics Bureau. Mining and service sectors  the two biggest money makers in the economy  both contracted, while agriculture was the only sector that boosted Mongolias virushiteconomy by . percent. Because of climate change, , households are migrating with . million herds for a better place this winter, as stated by Mongolian government. But for Banzragch, one of the few herders who remain from the massive migration, and thousands of others are looking for grassy and better pasture at Segs Tsagaan Bogd, Bayankhongor province. There, reliance on the agriculture industry for stimulus is concerning when theres a larger existential threat at play Climate change. When I was young, our valley used to turn yellow in the fall with tall broomgrass that could even block the views of horses. But now there is no grass to touch the livestocks noses and broomgrass barely reaches ankle bones, he said. Nomadic herders travel distance used to be limited to about  km within their province, but now they are migrating hundreds of kilometers and moving from one province to another. Photo by Gerelchuluun But these dual crises also bring opportunities, as herders find new ways to overcome challenges due to the impacts of COVID, climate change and overgrazing. In a community in IkhTamir soum in Arkhangai province, herders are organizing themselves into small community groups, planting and harvesting hay and fodder at communal lands to fight against pasture degradation and desertification, thus intensifying sustainable cashmere production, sorting out cashmere by its color during combing and focusing on animal welfare and proper pasture management to leverage cashmere profits. By introducing the experience of combing yak wool and teaching herders to separate the wool from the dirt and sort it by color, we were able to increase the price of our yak wool from  Mongolia Tughrik  cents to , Mongolia Tughrik  said Altantuya.S, a leader of the Blue Lake herders community in Ikh Tamir soum, Arkhangai province. Theyre also preparing green fodder, aspen leaves and nettle silages in groups to prepare for the winter. Owning to join herders community group, they have been able to reduce the cost of hay and fodder by at least  times each year. We harvested about  tons of green fodder from a hectare land, which means that  households received it, said Nerguibaatar.L, head of the Tamir TavanErdene herders community, in the soum. To the midst of COVID , all attention is directed to one single point amid the pandemic. But life goes on, herders are trying to maintain their sustainable production with these initial steps in pasture management. In the longer term, herders agreed to reduce the number herds to increase the value of their livestock products. Theyre even willing to pay for footprint taxes now if climate change lasts. Photo by Gerelchuluun Whenever the situation is severe, the agriculture sector not only maintains jobs and its products, but also manages to secure the food supply for citizens. During economic crisis in the past, the agricultural sector has always been a balancer. Even at a time when the lockdown is expected to continue, herders are always busy trying to meet the food supply of the population. Narantungalag Enkhtur is a freelance writer based in Mongolia. The opinions expressed here are those of the writer and do not necessarily represent the views of China Daily and China Daily website. If you have a specific expertise and would like to contribute to China Daily, please contact us at opinionchinadaily.com.cn, and commentchinadaily.com.cn.