Minks get reprieve in Danish cull pause
2020/12/1 7:50
Hong Kong has tapped into innovative technologies to supplement its efforts in combating the COVID pandemic, highlighting its resolve to become a regional innovation and technology hub, Alfred Sit Winghang, secretary for innovation and technology, told the fifth Belt and Road Summit in the special administrative region on Monday. He said  projects involving total funding of more than HK million . million have been approved for local universities, research and development centers, research institutes and technology companies so far to conduct RD in the detection, diagnosis and surveillance of the coronavirus. This is to reduce infections and contain the spread of the disease, with  public organizations taking part in the trial of these projects, Sit said at a panel discussion themed Fighting the Coronavirus with Innovative Tech and Thriving in a PostPandemic World  Opportunities in the Greater Bay Area. Two successful examples, he noted, are the reusable sixlayer mask capable of immobilizing bacteria, viruses and other harmful substances, and the wristbands, which, by means of artificial intelligence and big data technologies, can monitor whether a person is staying at a designated quarantine place without infringing ones privacy. At the discussions, held as part of the twoday summit organized by the Hong Kong government and the Hong Kong Trade Development Council, the heads of local technology enterprises shared their contributions and technology solutions inspired by the malaise. Arthur Chan, director and chief executive officer of Compathnion Technology, demonstrated the companys StayHomeSafe ewristband, while Rex Sham, cofounder and chief science officer of Insight Robotics, explained the use of aerial survey and D technologies to help construction companies detect and assess the progress of their projects so as to adhere to social distancing regulations. An air purifier invented by Hong Kongbased NCCO International Company has also been broadly adopted in public spaces across Hong Kong. Sit said while the pandemic has created a string of new normals in peoples lives, the technologies introduced will reshape our future. The allocation of more than HK billion for innovation and technology development in the last few years, as well as the implementation of initiatives, ranging from enhancing the local IT infrastructure to strengthening support for RD, have been gaining momentum in the local IT ecosystem, he said. As a strategic region in the GuangdongHong KongMacao Greater Bay Area, Hong Kong stands a good chance of sustaining the growth momentum by synergizing with other cities in the region, said Sit. In a special address to the summit, Ren Hongbin, vicechairman of the Stateowned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission of the State Council, praised Hong Kong for working to develop itself into a regional innovation pivot. We support SASAC in working with Hong Kong in developing G and AI, and transforming the traditional economies with big data. This will bring Hong Kong a new wave of infrastructure projects with BRI countries and regions in order to provide a new engine for economic development in these places, he said. While ample opportunities are emerging from postpandemic recovery and reconstruction, markets and potential of collaboration on innovative technologies have been flung open by the initiatives of the Bay Area and the Belt and Road, said Ren. Benefit from BRI Chief Executive Carrie Lam Cheng Yuetngor said in her opening address that under the bigger climate of the Belt and Road, Hong Kong suppliers and exporters stand to benefit from the initiative, which will invite plentiful opportunities for business partnership. She said suppliers and exporters have been persistently seeking foreign trade partners to branch out and advance their businesses, which will likely be realized under the initiative. Hong Kong boasts multilingual, multitalented financial and related services professionals, and is widely recognized in financial, trade, logistics, and legal services, said Lam, adding shes confident the SAR would be an ideal partner in BRI projects. How will the initiative move forward and where would economic globalization be heading? The Belt and Road Initiative and globalization will advance in tandem and complement each other, with high quality cooperation making the new type of globalization more open, inclusive, balanced and beneficial to all countries and regions involved, said Xie Feng, commissioner of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of China in the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region. He stressed that both the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Office of the Commissioner are committed to supporting Hong Kong in expanding exchanges and cooperation with the world and serving as a super connector in the BRI. Since the Office of the Commissioner initiated the Mainland plus Hong Kong plus Belt and Road partner countries model as a tripartite cooperation mechanism in , Xie said it has facilitated visits by HKSAR officials and industrial representatives to countries involved in the BRI, and cohosted tripartite meetings and matchmaking events with the Hong Kong business community, foreign consulates and business chambers in Hong Kong. In addition, Chinese embassies and consulates in the partner countries have encouraged Hong Kong businesses to join the economic and trade cooperation zones in the BRI, arranged visits of officials of foreign consular courts, chambers of commerce, businesses, and media in Hong Kong to the Bay Area, he said. jennychinadailyhk.com