Mongolia meets the challenges of COVID, climate change
2020/12/1 1:21
Shoppers wearing protective masks are seen at Hudson Yards on November ,  in New York, United States. Shoppers go out early despite ongoing concerns and limitations due to COVID this year.  Instead of standing on line for hours for Black Friday retail deals, many shoppers stayed home and went online in this pandemicpressured year. Adobe Analytics expects Black Friday and Cyber Monday  to be the two largest online sales days ever in the US. Online sales hit  billion on the day after Thanksgiving, up more than  percent over last year, according to Adobe Analytics, which analyzes website transactions from  of the top  US online retailers. It was the first time that web shoppers outspent inperson giftseekers on Black Friday, making it the secondlargest online spending day in US history, behind last years Cyber Monday. And that record is likely to be broken on this Cyber Monday  the Monday after Thanksgiving  with spending estimated to be between . billion and . billion, around  percent more than last year. US consumers made . billion in purchases through their smartphones a popular shopping method in China, a  percent increase over last year, making up  percent of total online spending. Curbside pickup of merchandise increased  percent, according to Adobe. Black Friday looked a bit different this year, due to the pandemic. Many stores skipped the traditional opening on Thanksgiving night, instead offering some of their best sales online for the past couple of weeks. The changes were made to help prevent shoppers from milling inside stores, potentially spreading the coronavirus. Adobe also noticed a change in what was being bought. New consoles, phones, smart devices and TVs that are traditional Black Friday purchases are sharing online shopping cart space this year with unorthodox Black Friday purchases such as groceries, clothes and alcohol, that would previously have been purchased instore, Taylor Schreiner, a director at Adobe Digital Insights, said in a statement. Topselling electronics included Apple AirPods and Watches, Amazon Echo, and Samsung TVs, Adobe said. Other products in demand were Hot Wheels, hoverboards and Lego sets. Thanksgiving Day itself also was busy online, said Kristin McGrath, an online shopping expert at Ziff Media Group and editor at BlackFriday.com, the New York Post reported. Even in past years weve seen a lot of online shopping on Thanksgiving, she said. This year we saw even more. Gaming consoles, televisions, kitchen equipment, smart speakers and office gear like laptops and printers were on the Christmas lists for families staying at home more this winter, the Post reported. With millions more working from home due to the COVID pandemic, the prospects for online retailers to cash in has grown exponentially. Meanwhile, the number of shoppers who ventured into retail stores on Black Friday dropped  percent, according to Sensormatic Solutions. Foot traffic also was down . percent for the week compared with last year. Due to COVID and social distancing requirements, shoppers were more purposeful in their inperson Black Friday shopping, causing significantly less crowds than weve seen in the past, said Brian Field, senior director of global retail consulting at Sensormatic. This was compounded by retailers not offering as many instore doorbusters and the increasing adoption of ecommerce. On Nov , the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention CDC deemed going shopping in crowded stores just before, on, or after Thanksgiving as a highrisk activity. The National Retail Federation predicted online sales would grow at least  percent for the season, to . billion. The NRF forecasts overall US holiday retail sales will increase between . percent and . percent over   from . billion to . billion. Masked shoppers turned up in smaller numbers at major US retailers including Macys, Walmart and Best Buy on Black Friday as early online deals and concern about the increase in coronavirus cases deterred trips to the local mall. Retailers overhauled the traditionally busy shopping day Walmart opened stores at  am Friday, directing shoppers to turn right upon entering and to proceed along main aisles to shop deals before paying at registers surrounded by plastic barriers. Best Buy opened at  am, employing workers in orange vests to direct traffic. Others offered temperature checks and grabandgo merchandise, including toys, bicycles and kitchen appliances to discourage crowding in store aisles. At Macys New York flagship, Asuncion Peralta, , said she was not afraid to shop because she had COVID antibodies. Ive been waiting for this day for a long time to buy towels and sheets, everything else that I need, said Peralta. These prices are not Black Friday prices. I came here two days ago, and the deals were better. Target employee Seth Schaffer, , from Lufkin, Texas, said shoppers in his store appeared less concerned about taking precautions to prevent the spread of the virus. Deep east Texas isnt the type of place where youll see everyone respecting mask policies or avoiding close contact, he said. Reuters contributed to this story.