Innovative technology key in COVID battle
2020/12/1 1:21
FILE PHOTO Governor Doug Burgum RND speaks to delegates at the Republican State Convention in Grand Forks, North Dakota, US April , . Picture taken April , .  In North Dakota, Republican Governor Doug Burgum has ordered a statewide mask mandate until Dec  to stem a coronavirus outbreak that is battering the state. In South Dakota, despite pleas from doctors and healthcare companies for a mask mandate to stem a raging virus outbreak, Governor Kristi Noem, also a Republican, has repeatedly questioned the effectiveness of masks. Im opposed to a statewide mask mandate, she has said. She has said the best thing people can do to stop the spread of the coronavirus is wash their hands. Noem is among a number of Republican governors in the Midwest and Northern Plains who have largely taken a handsoff approach to the COVID pandemic. North Dakota and South Dakota, with a combined population of just more than . million, have the highest number of cases per capita in the country. North Dakota was recently found to have the highest COVID death rate per capita in the world. North Dakotas statewide death toll from the virus was  as of Friday, according to the states health department. Statewide, there were , active coronavirus cases, a drop of , since the beginning of last week. More than  out of every , residents has now died. One in every  people in North Dakota tested positive in the past week. South Dakota on Friday reported  deaths from COVID, pushing the state to record more deaths in November than all other months of the pandemic combined. The states tally of COVID deaths stands at . The total number of deaths has more than doubled since November began, with  reported this month. The state currently has a death rate of about . deaths per , people, the th highest per capita, according to Johns Hopkins. Burgum, who just won reelection, had been adhering to what he called a light touch of government and encouraged people to voluntarily wear face coverings. He also declined to enforce limits on social gatherings and business occupancies. Health care professionals and community leaders had been pleading with Burgum for months to impose facemask wearing and other restrictions. Last month, on a tour of Bismarck, the state capital, Dr Deborah Birx, the White House coronavirus coordinator, described the states mask use and COVID protocols as the worst she had seen anywhere in the country. On Nov , Burgum relented. Our situation has changed, and we must change with it, he said. Doctors and nurses need our help, and they need it now. Burgums mandate requires residents to wear face coverings at indoor businesses and indoor public settings, as well as outdoor public settings where physical distancing isnt possible. Failure to comply with the mandate is an infraction, with a penalty of up to ,, though its not clear how the order will be enforced. He also has imposed several business restrictions to contain the spread of the coronavirus that has stressed the states hospital capacity. The number of COVID cases is straining the states hospitals. Late last month, the Defense Department sent  Air Force nurses   ICU nurses and  medical surgical nurses  to help the states hospitals in the ongoing fight against the virus. Last week Burgum issued an order allowing infected but asymptomatic nurses to continue to treat COVID patients. That infuriated nurses. Its just wrong for many reasons, said Sherri Miller, a nurse in Bismarck who is the executive director of the North Dakota Nurses Association. How does it work when a COVIDpositive nurse is coming to work and needs to eat and drink and their colleagues need to eat and drink and so forth? And share elevators. In South Dakota, the? largest group representing doctors has said it strongly supports a mask mandate, and several South Dakota cities now require masks to be worn in stores and public buildings. But Noem hasnt changed her position. She has said those who dont wear masks are making a personal decision and deserve respect. She also said she doesnt believe she has the power to issue a mask mandate. In August, Noem welcomed , people to the annual motorcycle rally in the town of Sturgis despite public health warnings. It has since been blamed by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for spreading coronavirus cases across the Midwest. Our people thought We dont need to do all those recommendations that the medical association had given because were so far apart. Were not going to be like New York or Italy or Spain, said Dr Benjamin Aaker, an emergency physician and the president of the South Dakota State Medical Association. They did not realize, Aaker said, that they were still mixing at grocery stores and churches and bars. It just took us longer and now weve caught up to it, and now weve surpassed that, and now were top of the nation in terms of infection rate and death rate.