S.Korea to toughen quarantine measures on worry about rd wave of COVID pandemic
2020/11/30 18:08
? People wearing face masks walk past a poster depicting Mona Lisa with a protective face mask on a shopping street in Seoul, South Korea, on Nov , .  SEOUL  South Korea has decided to toughen quarantine measures amid rising worry about the third wave of COVID pandemic here. Jeong Eunkyeong, chief of the Korea Disease Control and Prevention Agency KDCA, told a press briefing on Monday that the countrys reproduction rate of COVID reached . last week, which indicates one patient can infect . people. Jeong noted that unless the rate falls below , the number of confirmed cases would continue to grow faster, saying the daily caseload could soar to a range of , in the next one or two weeks if the current rate of . is left unchanged. In the latest tally, South Korea reported  more cases of COVID for the past  hours, raising the total number of infections to ,. The daily caseload stayed below  for two straight days, but it was mainly attributable to fewer tests on weekend. The daily number of confirmed COVID cases has grown in triple digits for  days running since Nov. , hovering above  since Nov  except for Nov . It recorded  on Thursday,  on Friday,  on Saturday and  on Sunday respectively. The third pandemic wave was caused by small cluster infections, especially in the Seoul metropolitan area, traceable to small gatherings among families and acquaintances, workplaces, public bathhouses and sports facilities. The government had decided to raise its fivetier socialdistancing guidelines to the thirdhighest Level  from Nov  to Dec  in capital Seoul and its surrounding Gyeonggi province as part of efforts to contain the virus spread. Despite the tightened rules, the resurgence showed no sign of letup, leading the government to toughen quarantine measures. The government decided on Sunday to keep the Seoul metropolitan area under the Level  distancing regulations, but additional restrictions were imposed on gatherings and activities. Sauna and steam room in bathhouses will be banned from midnight Tuesday for one week in the metropolitan area, while nine types of exercises done in groups, such as Zumba dance and aerobics, will be prohibited in indoor sports facilities during the same period in the capital region. Lessons for singing a song and playing wind instruments will be banned in the cited period in the Seoul area, while gyms, public bathhouses, cafes and study rooms in the apartment complex will stop operation. Hotels, party rooms and guesthouses will be prevented from hosting yearend or new year parities to curb the virus spread among young people. Meanwhile, the socialdistancing rules nationwide, except for the Seoul metropolitan area, will be elevated to Level . for two weeks from midnight Tuesday. The local governments can decide to raise the distancing rules to Level  on their own depending on the reported COVID cases. Under the Level  distancing, five entertainment facilities, such as nightclubs, have to suspend business, and karaoke bars have to stop business after  pm local time. Indoor dining is not allowed in coffee shops and cafes, with only delivery and takeout to be permitted. Restaurants are allowed to serve food until  pm, with only delivery and takeout to be available afterward. Limited capacity and a twometer distance between seats are placed at regular facilities, such as concert halls, movie theaters, wedding halls, funeral homes, hair salons, amusement park, department stores and discount outlets. The gathering of over  people is banned, and the spectator capacity for sports events is restricted to  percent. Worship services in religious facilities are allowed to fill up to  percent of seats. The attendance cap in kindergartens, primary schools and middle schools is placed at onethird of the total students, while the cap in high schools is placed at twothirds of students.