Volvo highlights longterm commitment to China
2020/11/30 16:49
SONG CHENCHINA DAILY China is arguably the first and only country in the world to propose intensifying international cooperation in preventing the spread of the coronavirus pandemic around the world, sharing information and experience in combating COVID, and creating a new format of global cooperation to help restore production and the economy in all countries. Chinese President Xi Jinping on all international platforms, for example, at the th BRICS summit and the G summit, every time in his speech draws the attention of world leaders and the international community to the need to address two very important issues related to the fate of humanity. The first important question is a constant call for a joint fight against COVID, because the new challenge that humanity faces can only be defeated by global efforts. The second important issue is the creation of a free, open global economic space to revive the economies of all countries facing a serious crisis due to the pandemic. The emerging industries and models of global cooperation continually proposed by the Chinese leader in the face of the pandemic clearly indicate that China is fighting with a sense of duty to prevent the pandemic from spreading globally. China not only has a special responsibility to its own people, but also fulfills its obligation to provide public health to the entire world. China, which initiated the concept of a community with a shared future for mankind, is successfully implementing it and making a worthy contribution to the cause of public health throughout the world. Since the beginning of the pandemic to this day, China has provided massive medical assistance to many countries in the fight against COVID, and continues to provide this assistance today. Over the past few years, China, in contrast to the United States and some large European countries, has improved its international reputation and its influence on the world stage thanks not only to its free medical care medical masks, medical supplies, but also thanks to the creation of its own vaccines against the new coronavirus and willingness to provide them to other countries. It is well remembered that at the th BRICS Summit, Xi Jinping said China was ready to share the vaccine with other developing countries, and proposed holding a seminar on BRICS traditional medicine. We have created a Vaccine Development and Research Center in China, and we will promote the creation of such a center for the BRICS countries, the Chinese leader said. Speaking at the G summit, which was held online this year, Xi Jinping proposed the creation of a single international mechanism for health codes. All these proposals are, in fact, Chinas real readiness to work together with the world in the fight against the pandemic this also applies to work on joint development and testing of vaccines, as well as the creation of joint factories, and such. Global cooperation in the fight against the pandemic will help to promote and restore the global economy. China offers new ideas in this direction, since the parallel advancement of the fight against COVID and stabilization of the economy today is the highest priority for all countries of the world. Today we see how many countries are closely watching Chinas proposals, showing great interest in them and becoming participants in global projects initiated by China. These are primarily the Belt and Road Initiative and proposals and initiatives related to the creation of free trade zones. The creation of the worlds largest free trade zone in Asia is a prime example of this. The unique Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership agreement has the potential to impact the entire global economy. The creation of free trade zones looks like a promising, effective and mutually beneficial area of global cooperation against the backdrop of the spread of the pandemic and in the postpandemic period. China can assume global leadership in this regard by intensifying its efforts to expand its network of free trade zones around the world to expand its list of partners,for example, with Africa, Latin America and the SCO. This is because the free trade zones created in China itself have proven their profitability and have become the most effective instrument for ensuring economic interaction between China and foreign partners. Chinas free trade zones offer foreign capital tax preferences, simplified customs clearance and investment procedures, and increased access to specific sectors. China has extensive experience in this matter, which can be successfully applied all over the world. China is always ready to step up its steps to create a new geoeconomic space on equal and mutually beneficial terms. At the th BRICS Summit, Xi proposed the creation of a BRICS Partnership for a New Industrial Revolution, and at the G Summit called for promoting healthy growth of the digital economy and jointly creating an environment for digital development that is open, fair, equitable and nondiscriminatory. China continually proposes new ideas and projects, and comes up with various initiatives for the sustainable development of all countries of the world. Beijing, committed to the community with a shared future for mankind, is actively forging international and regional cooperation in the context of a pandemic, and thus is creating a new geoeconomic field with new rules of the game, where all countries have equal rights. The author is director of the international experts club EurAsiaAz, and editorinchief of Azerbaijans news agency Vzglyad.az. The opinions expressed here are those of the writer and do not necessarily represent the views of China Daily and China Daily website.