Macron says video of police beating black man unacceptable and shameful
2020/11/28 18:36
? French President Emmanuel Macron speaks during a visit to a fundraising event in Paris, on Nov , .  PARIS  French President Emmanuel Macron said Friday that footage of several police officers beating up a black music producer was unacceptable and shameful for the country. The images we have all seen of the aggression against Michel Zecler are unacceptable, they are shameful for all of us. France should never allow violence or brutality, no matter who it comes from. France should never let hate or racism prosper, Macron said in a statement on his Facebook account. The three police officers identified in the video have been suspended and taken into custody for further investigation, according to the Paris Prosecutors office. The president also said in the statement that the French government needs to restore public confidence in the police. Zecler told reporters Thursday that he was walking around without a face mask, which was against the countrys COVID safety measures, and hid in his studio to avoid fines when a police car appeared. The police allegedly followed him inside and attacked him. Meanwhile, a new French security law that would restrict publishing police images has sparked protests and rallies in many parts of the country. The laws Article , one of its most controversial sections, forbids the publication of images that allow the identification of onduty police officers with the intent of harming their physical or psychological integrity. The French government says that the provision is aimed at protecting police officers from harassment, threats and violence. However, critics say it threatens to place restrictions on journalists and others reporting on police brutality or other abuses. The bill, passed by the National Assembly, now awaits Senate approval. French Prime Minister Jean Castex said earlier this week that he was going to set up an independent commission to redraft Article  of the law.