Experts say Xis speech at ZGC Forum contributes to solving global issues
2021/9/26 9:23
A man wearing a face mask walks at Zhongguancun Science City in Beijing on May , .  BEIJING  Overseas experts have spoken highly of President Xi Jinpings speech via video at the opening ceremony of the  Zhongguancun Forum ZGC Forum on Friday, saying it has provided Chinas wisdom to resolve important global issues through scitech innovation. They said Xis call for openness, cooperation in science and technology, and addressing the challenges of the times together has pointed out the direction for world economic recovery, provided a way to solve important global problems and boosted the confidence of all countries in promoting the noble cause of peace and development of mankind. Xis speech shows Chinas demonstration to the world that its course towards innovative development remains unchanged and prioritized, said Andrei Ostrovsky, head of the Institute of Far Eastern Studies under the Russian Academy of Sciences, noting that China has made tremendous achievements in such fields as information technology, G and space exploration. China has consistently advocated the creation of an open, fair and nondiscriminatory environment for global scientific and technological cooperation. And it has done a lot for this, Ostrovsky said. Hailing Xis call for greater scientific cooperation a very positive development, Malaysian political observer Azmi Hassan said the Association of Southeast Asian Nations should tap the opportunity and cooperate at all levels with China in science and technology, which otherwise would be quite difficult for smaller nations to develop on their own. Raquel Isamara Leon de la Rosa, professor and researcher of international business at the Meritorious Autonomous University of Puebla in Mexico, said China is growing to become a technologyoriented economy. Such technologies as artificial intelligence, green energy and carbon neutrality showcased at the ZGC Forum have drawn worldwide attention, said the professor. De la Rosas remarks were echoed by Ronnie Lins, director of the ChinaBrazil Center for Research and Business, who said Xis speech has deepened peoples understanding of true multilateralism, stressing it is of great significance to help countries share innovative ideas and methods for global development through providing a platform for discussions about cuttingedge technology and industrial growth trends by hosting forums.