Logistics companies urged to stay vigilant on virus
2020/11/27 11:17
Chinese medical supplies are loaded for shipment to Belgium at Hangzhou International Airport in Zhejiang province in March.  New aviation routes bring more products to and from Europe, helping rejuvenate commerce amid the COVID pandemic BRUSSELSChinas Singles Day, which falls on Nov  each year, is the worlds biggest hour online shopping event. On that day, visitors to Belgian ecommerce website facealacrise.be were invited to explore a myriad of highquality products on offer from Chinese retailers. The COVID pandemic has inarguably changed the world, and the way people shop is no exception. As countries all over Europe have closed nonessential stores to contain the surge of COVID, consumers in increasing numbers have turned to Chinese online shopping websites to purchase the products they want. The logistics backbone behind the upswing in Chinas retail sales is air cargo. Companies operate airfreight services along multiple routes between China and the countries of Europe along the Air Silk Road, an aviation industry initiative inspired by the Chinaproposed Belt and Road Initiative. The underlying aim is to improve connectivity and foster a sustainable aviation economy. Liege Airport in southeastern Belgium is the countrys largest airport in terms of cargo throughput and is one of Europes key air cargo hubs. The BRI has greatly boosted the airports development and business prospects in recent years. On Oct , the QingdaoLiege allcargo regular international route was officially opened. Its the latest addition to airfreight services connecting China with Belgium. The pandemic has forced the suspension of several flights between China and Europe, but Air Silk Road cargo companies at Liege Airport continue to operate at almost full capacity, helping countless small and mediumsized enterprises deliver their products across thousands of miles. Liege Airport expects to be among the few airports in Europe to maintain  percent or higher growth rate in . Its annual cargo volume is projected to exceed  million metric tons for the first time. Luc Partoune, CEO of the airport, attributed this to the rapid development of crossborder ecommerce, adding that it benefited not only the aviation industry but also other industries, and not only China but also the world over. Seizing the business opportunity, Yang Gaijing, an overseas Chinese who has been engaged in the catering industry in Liege for more than  years, launched his logistics company this year and wasted no time in participating in the Singles Day shopping bonanza. Online shopping has huge potential in Europe, and is unlike China, where the market is saturated. Our company will also focus on helping European SMEs export to China in the future, Yang said. Cao Zhongming, Chinas ambassador to Belgium, speaking at the launch of the new Air Silk Road between China and Belgium in September.  Meanwhile, new cargo routes connecting Belgiums OstendBruges International Airport with a few Chinese citiesincluding Shanghai Shijiazhuang, Hebei province and Nanchang, Jiangxi provincewere Gopened in late September. The airports CEO, Marcel Buelens, told Xinhua News Agency at the opening event that he looked forward to closer cooperation between Europe and China and expected his airport to become a hub in this framework. New routes launched in the past several years have enriched the Air Silk Road, whose role is expanding even further during the ongoing COVID pandemic as countries struggle amid economic fallout. The Civil Aviation Administration of China said the country has maintained regular international passenger and cargo flights to  countries and regions during the pandemic. At present, China and BRIinvolved countries and regions operate , cargo flights per week, . times more than before the pandemic. Among the flights shuttling between China and Europe are those on the ZhengzhouLuxembourg international freight route. It was launched in  after Henan Civil Aviation Development and Investment Co Ltd acquired a percent stake in Luxembourgbased Cargolux Airlines International, which operates the biggest allcargo airline in Europe. The airfreight service currently operates up to  flights per week connecting Europe, Asia and the United States, with Zhengzhou at its core. Zhou Lihong, chairwoman of the China Chamber of Commerce to the EU, told Xinhua that airfreight is ideal to guarantee pointtopoint trade exchanges. In contrast to the land and maritime Silk Roads, the Air Silk Road can overcome the infrastructure problems associated with land transportation, as well as the geographical limitations of maritime transportation, Zhou said. The Air Silk Road has also proved its worth by helping save lives during the pandemic. On March , , face masks arrived from China at Liege Airport via the Air Silk Road. This was the first large shipment of personal protective equipment to Belgium since the start of the outbreak. Maggie De Block, former health minister of Belgium, expressed the countrys gratitude to China in a statement. On March , approximately  tons of medical supplies provided by the Chinese government to Greece arrived at Athens International Airport on an Air China flight. Greek Health Minister Vasilis Kikilias conveyed his countrys deepest and warmest thanks and gratitude to China at the handover ceremony. Another batch of medical supplies arrived in Luxembourg one day later via the established ZhengzhouLuxembourg route. The Finnish National Emergency Supply Agency also stated that earlier this year, a total of  medical cargo flights arrived in Finland from China to help the country fight the virus. On April , a large shipment of medical supplies, including a record  tons of medical cargo transported by an Antonov An Mriya, arrived in Poland from China. Back in Liege, the airport has become an anticontagion rescue center in recent months. Large volumes of medical supplies coming from China pass through the Liege hub and are transferred to  European countries, including Italy and France. CAAC figures show that China has provided anticoronavirus assistance to  countries and regions since the outbreak of COVID, delivering more than , tons of medical supplies. Xinhua