Wuhan mailman went the extra mile to help villagers
2020/11/27 9:01
Xiong Guilin asks an elderly villager to sign for a delivery in Wuhan, Hubei province. PHOTOCHINA DAILY Although he is just a mailman in Wuhan, Xiong Guilin went beyond what his job required when the Hubei provincial capital was hit hard by the novel coronavirus earlier this year. When the city was reeling from a hard blow by the coronavirus outbreak, there was no online shop willing to mail books to Wuhan, he said. The city was put under lockdown on Jan . Public transport stopped, as did express deliveries and retail businesses. But in some of the remote villages in the citys suburban Jiangxia district where he works, children left in their grandparents care by parents who earn a living in other cities needed the books to keep studying at home. So Xiong decided to drive to the citys downtown, over  kilometers from the districts postal station, to buy the books for them. I was afraid. What if I got infected? But I couldnt give up because the seniors and kids needed me, he said. The kids really hankered for books at the time, and we cant discourage them and their desire for knowledge. With over  years work experience in the citys remote areas, the yearold was recently honored as a national model worker on Tuesday at a ceremony attended by President Xi Jinping. In the eight villages he serves, most of the dwellers are childless seniors and leftbehind children. These groups are highly sensitive to the coronavirus and lack supplies to protect their health. Xiong tried every possible way to buy supplies for the seniors and children amid the pandemic. He allocated all the masks and disinfectants and wrote down the villagers names with care. Ive known some of these seniors for about  or even  years. They always come to me when facing any problem, he said. Usually, I write down whatever they want, like rice, salt or cigarettes, and bring them their stuff when I deliver their mail or parcels. I usually buy  or  items a day, but that reached  during the pandemic, he said. I started work at  am and finished around  pm. Its okay for me, as long as the villagers need my help. Xiong said that he and his family lived a very hard life when he was a child, and he received lots of help and care from neighbors and the government. I got help from warmhearted people, and now its my turn to pass down the warmth to those who need my help, he said. My mother also told me to be a good man and do good things to benefit people around me. In the past  years, Xiong has traveled about , kilometers delivering a total of about  metric tons of mail to the villagers. Whatever Ive done is worthwhile because of the villagers trust and recognition, he said.