Intl publishers eye Chinas market for childrens books
2020/11/27 7:17
A passenger wearing mask is seen on a bus in the ChinaRussia border city of Manzhouli in North Chinas Inner Mongolia autonomous region, on April , .  The coronavirus clusters that have sprung up in communities in Manzhouli in the Inner Mongolia autonomous region, have been identified as being triggered by imported infection based on the latest research on the virus origins, the local government said. The genetic sequencing on the first two confirmed cases reported in the city on Saturday, a middleaged couple, showed that their type of the novel coronavirus belonged to Branch I of the European L genotype, and the following comparison showed it was highly similar to the strain that spread in Russia, said Wang Wenrui, director of the Inner Mongolia autonomous region disease control and prevention center, on Thursday. It indicated that the latest outbreak in the city was triggered by imported coronavirus infections, Wang said, adding that investigations on other confirmed cases will also be conducted. The city reported nine new confirmed cases of COVID on Thursday, increasing the tally to . It also reported another asymptomatic case and a suspected case, according to the citys health authority. Among the universal screening of the , residents in the city starting from Sunday to Wednesday, we found  positive cases, Guo Xiaofang, deputy mayor of Manzhouli, said at a news conference on Thursday. Among them, there are family members, classmates, teachers and neighbors in the same residential communities, from ages  to , said Wang Hongquan, director of the Manzhouli disease control and prevention center. The cases have obvious characteristics of cluster infections. After the outbreak, Manzhouli has adopted strict measures to control the spread, including locking down six residential communities in two mediumrisk areas for COVID since Saturday evening, and conducting strict inspections on vehicles and travelers in and out of the city, according to the government. Several flights between Manzhouli and other cities, including Beijing, Tianjin, Harbin and Hohhot, have been canceled, Manzhouli Xijiao Airport announced on Saturday. Bus and railway services for passengers were suspended to keep people from gathering and spreading the coronavirus. In addition to the strict measures adopted in Manzhouli due to the recent outbreak, other cities have tightened regular management especially regarding coldchain food, which has been considered the virus source of the recent outbreak in Tianjin. In Beijing, Xinfadi wholesale market, which supplies more than  percent of the capitals agricultural produce, has disposed of all of its coldchain food including seafood and frozen meat, local media reported on Wednesday. According to staff at the market, it will strengthen the management of its cold storage to ensure safety under the current COVID epidemic condition. Largescale nucleic acid testing will be carried out for all workers in the coldchain food industry as well as those who live with them, said officials at a conference on Wednesday. Du Juan in Beijing contributed to the story.