Ode to China Chilean poets works debut in Spanish
2020/11/27 6:40
Students dance with robots during the opening of a science and innovation fair at Chengdu HiTech Xinhua School in Chengdu, Sichuan province, on Nov , . More than  students from  schools took part in the event, which included virtual aviation games and AI programming competitions. LI XIANGYUFOR CHINA DAILY A boy reaches out for the falling snow in the ancient city of Kashgar scenic area in Kashgar, Northwest Chinas Xinjiang Uygur autonomous region, Nov , .  Dozens of early cherry blossoms begin to bloom in Xiangshidian Forest Park in Luoping county, Qujing city, Southwest Chinas Yunnan province, Nov , . .cn Elderly farmers holding photos of themselves take a picture with their photographers standing behind them in the village of Xiawei in Nanchang, Jiangxi province, on Nov . In , volunteers of a public welfare organization in Nanchang started photographing smiling senior citizens in rural areas and giving them free copies.  An inheritor of the Tibetan art thangka  a traditional style of painting on silk or cotton  displays his skill at an exhibition at Prince Kungs Mansion in Beijing on Nov , . JIANG DONGCHINA DAILY The Rainbow Bridge is seen in the morning light in Qingdao, East Chinas Shandong province, Nov , .  Students practice speed skating on ice under the guidance of a teacher at an elementary school in Xingtai city, North Chinas Hebei province, Nov , .  Customs officers take an inventory of seized smuggled cigarettes in Zhoushan, Zhejiang province, on Nov , . The police in Zhoushan, a city consisting of various islands, recently busted a major tobacco smuggling case and detained  suspects. Some , cartons of cigarettes, worth  million yuan . million, were confiscated. ZOU XUNYONGFOR CHINA DAILY An employee demonstrates a wearable AIpowered bionic hand at the JD Global Technology Discovery Conference in Beijing, capital of China, Nov , . The conference, sponsored by JD, a leading ecommerce platform in China, kicked off here on Wednesday under the theme of digital intelligence, interconnection and shaping the future.  A mask is seen on a statues face in Beijing, Nov , . 