Growing overseas readership of Chinese online literature
2020/11/27 0:00
More US airlines and airports are offering preflight COVID tests to travelers on domestic and international flights, in a bid to keep people safe from the virus that has infected more than  million people worldwide and killed over . million in  countries and regions. The move to encourage passengers to get tested before they fly is expanding internationally. At least  countries require proof of a negative coronavirus test before they will allow a traveler to cross their borders, according to travel medicine database Shoreland Travax. In the US, United Airlines, American Airlines and JetBlue are among the carriers offering preflight tests. Tests can also be taken at dedicated hubs at US airports in Alaska, Connecticut, Boston, Florida, Los Angeles, New York, Newark, New Jersey, Texas and San Francisco. In October, Hawaiian and Alaska airlines began testing travelers to Hawaii. But they are not mandatory and not always free. This week United Airlines launched the worlds first free transatlantic COVID testing program by offering free rapid tests to all crew and passengers before they fly. The first flight to offer the coronavirus test took off on Nov  from New York to Londons Heathrow Airport. A spokesman for United Airlines said in a statement Were launching the worlds first free transatlantic COVID testing program. Offered on select flights from Nov  to Dec  on flights from New York and Newark to London England, this pilot program guarantees all customers over two and crew on board test negative before departure. United Airlines has also launched a mailin COVID test for people traveling from Houston to Latin American and Caribbean destinations on Monday. The test, which costs , will be available to customers flying out of George Bush Intercontinental Airport from Dec . The airline will contact customers  days before their flight to provide instructions on how to order the test. Passengers must take it  hours before departure, mail it in, and get results within  hours. In a joint US and UK venture, American Airlines, British Airways and the Oneworld airline alliance have launched an optional coronavirus testing trial on select flights from cities in the US to Heathrow from Nov . The free tests will initially be offered to eligible customers booked on American Airlines Flight AA departing Dallas Fort Worth International Airport to Heathrow British Airways Flight BA departing New Yorks John F. Kennedy International Airport and British Airways Flight BA from Los Angeles to Heathrow. The tests are set to become more widespread. Customers will be tested  hours before, during and after traveling. If they test positive before traveling, they will have to reschedule or cancel their flight. They will then be allowed to rebook. JetBlue is offering home testing kits for travelers to Aruba, as the Caribbean island requires a negative test for travelers to enter. The test is processed in  hours. The US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention urged US residents traveling internationally to get tested three separate times before and after flying. Social distancing is difficult in busy airports and on crowded flights, and  may increase your risk of getting COVID. Testing before and after travel can reduce the risk of spreading COVID, it said. More COVID testing could reopen international travel and remove the need for passengers to quarantine on arrival in their destinations. Airlines have taken a huge hit amid the pandemic, with domestic air travel down by  percent and international travel down by  percent yearonyear, according to industry figures. Most airlines require passengers to wear masks, while staff members are also disinfecting terminals and plane cabins between flights. On flights, HEPA air filtration systems are being used. A study released by the US Department of Defense in October showed that the ventilation systems on aircrafts filter the air enough to stop particles that spread viruses. belindarobinsonchinadailyusa.com Nurse Caren Williams collects a nasal swab sample from a traveler at a COVID testing spot at the Los Angeles International Airport on Monday. JAE C. HONGAP