More scrutiny given over imported goods
2020/11/26 9:01
Oversight intensified over containers upon discovery of virus transmission Disease control and prevention workers collect samples from frozen products in Tianjins Nankai district on Nov .  Daily Along with imported coldchain food, containers that carry imported goods have also been subject to stricter scrutiny in China to prevent COVID outbreaks in the winter, a top epidemiologist said on Wednesday. With the arrival of winter, the transport of goods via containers has posed similar risks of spreading the novel coronavirus as goods transported in cold chain, said Wu Zunyou, a top expert from the Chinese Center for Disease Control and Prevention. Container transport was found to have caused recent outbreaks in Shanghai, revealing a new means of transmission of the novel coronavirus, and authorities have intensified supervision over containers involved in international trade, Wu said at a news conference. Intensified testing will be conducted on containers and goods and engaged workers at ports of entry to minimize risks of the importation of contaminated goods, so that any human infections can be detected at the earliest time and outbreaks can be contained as soon as possible, he said. Imported coldchain food has been a key focus of the governments COVID control and prevention efforts since the arrival of winter after several outbreaksincluding those in Beijing and Qingdao, a port city in Shandong provincethat have either been suspected or confirmed to have been caused by imported coldchain goods contaminated with the novel coronavirus. Mi Feng, spokesman for the National Health Commission, said the risk of importing COVID in China has been increasing since the arrival of winter in the northern hemisphere as the pandemic worsens overseas. The Chinese mainland reported  locally transmitted COVID cases over the past  days, . times as many as the number reported in the previous  days, he said. Meanwhile, more areas in China have reported imported coldchain food that has tested positive for the coronavirus, and contaminated containers have also been identified recently, he said. Earlier this week, health authorities in Shanghai said two confirmed COVID cases that were reported in the city on Nov  and Anhui province on Nov  were infected while cleaning without wearing a mask inside a sealed container carried by an airplane from North America. It was the first report of a novel coronavirus infection being transmitted from containers to people in China. To prevent risks, equipment involved in international trade such as containers has been subject to COVID control and prevention measures equivalent to those applied to coldchain food, according to Wu. Mi said China will continue to step up efforts to prevent importation of the virus focusing on both inbound travelers and goods, including applying preventive sterilization on coldchain food. Over the past half month, customs officers have applied sterilization to more than . million packages of imported coldchain food and other goods such as various containers, said Bi Kexin, head of import and export food safety at the General Administration of Customs.