Better off thanks to China German companies double down on resurgent giant
2020/11/25 9:55
A Fanuc RiC industrial robot is seen at HAHN Automation company in Rheinboellen, Germany, Nov , .  BERLIN  German industrial robotmaker Hahn Automation plans to invest millions of euros in new factories in China over the next three years, keen to capitalise on an economy thats rebounding more rapidly than others from the COVID crisis. Our goal is to make up to  percent of our sales in China by , he told Reuters, up from roughly  percent now. German industry is deepening ties with China, which battled the pandemic with stricter measures than other countries, moved out of a first lockdown earlier and saw demand rebound more quickly. Olaf Kiesewetter, CEO of car sensor supplier UST in Thuringia in eastern Germany, shares the same ambition of making  percent of sales in China. We clearly notice that China has come out of the crisis with force, he told Reuters, adding that China had already become USTs biggest export market outside the European Union a couple of years ago, accounting for  percent of sales. Without China, our business in the third quarter wouldnt have been so good. So there is no doubt that were better off thanks to China. China emerging stronger An employee works on a production line at HAHN Automation company in Rheinboellen, Germany, Nov , .  In terms of top destinations for German exports by value, China overtook France in the first nine months of  and came close to the United States, data from the Federal Statistics Office compiled for Reuters showed. A senior official told Reuters that given the latest trade and growth trends, China was likely to overtake the United States by the end of the year, to become number one. Chinas share of overall German exports rose to nearly  percent in the JanSept period, from roughly  percent a year earlier, according to the data. China is also Germanys top supplier, with its share of German imports rising to more than  percent from below  percent. In the near term, at least, China is looking stronger than many countries in the West. Germany, Europes economic powerhouse, is reeling under a second wave of COVID and its economy is forecast to shrink by a record  percent this year, according to the International Monetary Fund. China is expected to be the only major economy to report growth this year, with a projected expansion rate of . percent. Germany is expected to rebound in , yet its projected growth of . percent still lags the IMFs global forecast of . percent and is around half of Chinas projected . percent. Masks and medical gear The headquarters of HAHN Automation company are seen in Rheinboellen, Germany Nov , .  The disruptions caused by the pandemic are exposing Europes dependencies in certain areas. A new survey from the Berlinbased Mercator Institute for China Studies MERICS, shared exclusively with Reuters, found more than  product categories in which the EU has a critical strategic dependence on imports from China. Europe critically depends on Chinese imports for the pharmaceutical, chemical and electronics sectors, mostly on components produced in technologically less sophisticated areas of the value chain, MERICS researcher Max Zenglein said. Reuters