Xi, Merkel talk about vaccine cooperation
2020/11/25 9:46
A taxi driver wearing a face mask waits for passengers in Tonekabon, Iran, on Nov , .  CAIRO  Amid continuing resurgence of the COVID pandemic in the Middle East, Iran recorded its highest daily infections with , new cases on Tuesday. Meanwhile, Turkey and Algeria also broke new records in daily COVID cases. The total number of COVID cases in Iran surged to ,, while the death toll climbed by  to ,, said Sima Sadat Lari, spokeswoman for the Iranian Ministry of Health and Medical Education. A total of , people in Iran have recovered from the disease, while , others remained in intensive care units, Lari added. Turkey reported a new record high of , daily infections, pushing the total confirmed cases in the country to ,, while the death toll rose by  to , and the tally of recoveries increased by , to ,. Turkey is preparing to hire , new health workers amid the sharp increase of the daily COVID cases, including , nurses, , midwives, , health technicians and other personnel in  fields, Health Minister Fahrettin Koca announced on Tuesday. Algeria recorded , new daily COVID infections, the highest number in the country since the pandemic outbreak in late February, bringing the total COVID cases in the country to ,. It also reported  more deaths and  new recoveries, taking the death toll in Algeria to , and the total recoveries to ,. In Iraq, the health ministry reported , new COVID cases, raising the total nationwide infections to ,. The ministry reported  new deaths from coronavirus, bringing the death toll in Iraq to ,, the highest among Arab countries. It also reported , more recovered cases, raising the total recoveries in Iraq to ,. Israels Ministry of Health reported  new COVID cases on Tuesday, bringing the tally to ,. The number of death cases rose by  to ,, while the overall recoveries surged by  to ,. Earlier on Tuesday, the gradual reopening of schools in Israel continued, with the resumption of the th and th grade classes in the cities and towns with low COVID morbidity. Saudi Arabia reported  new coronavirus cases and  more fatalities from the virus, raising the total infections in the kingdom to , and the death toll to ,. The tally of recoveries increased by  to ,. Morocco confirmed , new COVID cases and  more deaths, taking the tally of infections in the country to , and the death toll to ,. The tally of recoveries rose by , to ,. Jordan announced , new coronavirus infections and  more deaths on Tuesday, pushing the tally of confirmed COVID cases to , and the total deaths from the disease to ,. The total number of recoveries rose by , to ,. The United Arab Emirates UAE confirmed , new COVID cases and five more deaths, bringing the total infections in the UAE to , and the total death count to . The number of recoveries rose by  to ,. Kuwait reported  new COVID cases and two more deaths, raising the tally of infections to , and the death toll to  in the country. The Kuwaiti Health Ministry also announced the recovery of  more patients, taking the total recoveries in the country to ,. The Omani Health Ministry announced  new COVID infections and five more deaths, raising the total confirmed cases in the Sultanate to , and the death toll to ,. Qatar reported  new COVID infections, raising the total number of confirmed cases in the Gulf state to ,. The tally of recoveries rose by  to ,, while the total fatalities remained unchanged at  for the third day running, according to the Qatari Health Ministry. Lebanon recorded , new COVID cases and  more deaths from the virus, taking the total infections in the kingdom to , and the death toll to . The overall recoveries in Lebanon increased by , to ,. Tunisia confirmed , new coronavirus infections and  more deaths, bringing its total COVID cases to , and its death toll to ,. Its total recoveries increased by , to ,. Palestine reported , new COVID cases and  more deaths from the virus, raising the total infections in the Palestinian territories to , and the death toll to .