Germany to start COVID vaccinations by midDecember
2020/11/25 9:30
People wearing face masks sit at the terrace of the Les Quinze Nits restaurant on Real square, after Spains Catalonia region allowed bars, restaurants, gyms and cinemas to reopen from Monday, gradually easing some of the restrictions put in place to tackle the coronavirus disease COVID outbreak, in Barcelona, Spain, Nov , .  MADRID  Spains Health Minister Salvador Illa on Tuesday explained the governments plans to vaccinate the population against COVID in . Speaking at a press conference after the cabinet approved the plan, Illa said the vaccination would be completed in three stages. During the first stage between January and March, around . million people would receive the vaccine, starting with the elderly people and residential care workers, followed by other health workers and dependent people. The minister said that during this period the supply of vaccines would be very limited, but supply would increase progressively in the second stage between March and June, with a significant increase foreseen for the third stage. The governments vaccination strategy divides the population into  groups. People would be vaccinated progressively and in strict order. Illa did not elaborate, saying only that details will be announced in a timely manner. Spain will have enough doses to vaccine around  million people even though the countrys total population is just below  million. Madrid has concluded agreements on the purchase of vaccines from AstraZeneca, Pfizer, Johnson  Johnson, Sanofi GSK, CureVac and Moderna through the European Union vaccine purchase plan. On Sunday Prime Minister Pedro Sanchez explained that vaccinations would be carried out at , points around the country and that the aim was to vaccinate the majority of the population during the first half of . On Tuesday the government published a draft document outlining its plans to limit the number of coronavirus infections during the Christmas holiday period. The document recommends limiting social contacts whenever possible, prohibiting family and social gatherings of more than six people and introducing a  am curfew on both Christmas Eve and New Years Eve. The document also recommends avoiding nonessential travel, although Spains  autonomous communities will be entitled to decide whether or not they close their perimeters over the holiday period.