Germany regrets US withdrawal from Open Skies arms control treaty
2020/11/25 9:02
A woman, wearing a protective face mask, walks past a closed hair and cosmetic shop in a street in Paris during the second national lockdown as the coronavirus disease COVID outbreak continues in France, Nov , .  PARIS  French people will enjoy more freedom in outdoor exercises starting Saturday, and the nationwide coronavirus lockdown could be lifted on Dec  if health conditions are met, President Emmanuel Macron announced Tuesday in a TV address. A new page will open on Saturday, Nov , said Macron. Starting Saturday, outdoor exercises will be allowed for up to three hours a day, and people can go up to  km from their homes. Currently, people can only go out for exercise for one hour and in a radius of one km. Starting Saturday, nonessential shops will also be allowed to reopen until  pm and under strict health conditions, and indoor religious services with  worshippers will be also allowed, according to Macron. Though the COVID pandemic has been easing in France, it is necessary to continue to work at home, and to give up unnecessary travel, said Macron, adding that the virus remains very present. If the situation improves further and the number of COVID infections is brought down to below , per day, the lockdown could be lifted on Dec , with cinemas, theaters and museums allowed to reopen under strict health protocols, he said. But a  pm to  am curfew will still apply to the whole country except on Dec  and , said the president. Restaurants, bars, cafes and gyms would have to stay shut until Jan  to avoid the virus resurgence, he added. Since September, coronavirus infections in France had spiraled to levels much higher than in the first wave of the pandemic, dragging the country into its second nationwide lockdown on Oct . Our efforts have paid off. We have succeeded in slowing the circulation of the virus. We have achieved these results together. Together we have saved lives, Macron said. Also on Tuesday, France reported , new infections in a hour span, taking the total number of cases to ,,. Coronavirusrelated deaths topped ,, after  patients died in hospitals and  others in nursing homes in  hours, health authority data showed. A total of , patients were put on ventilators,  fewer than Mondays ,, consolidating a decline recorded since Nov . Macron warned that the return to normal is not for tomorrow...We must continue our efforts. We still have several weeks ahead of us to meet our target to control the epidemic and stabilize the number of infections around , per day and between , and , patients in resuscitation beds, he said. He added the government and parliament will have to discuss how to make isolation of infected people mandatory. If we want to avoid a new confinement, we must be more restrictive concerning the conditions of isolation. Macron also said that France would begin a coronavirus vaccination program by late December or early January, starting with the elderly and vulnerable people, after authorization from health authorities. Vaccination must be done in a clear, transparent way, by sharing at each stage all the information that we know as well as that we do not know, he said, adding that the vaccination would not be compulsory. We must do everything to avoid a third wave, do everything to avoid a third lockdown, Macron said. As the world is struggling to contain the pandemic, countries including France, China, Russia, the United Kingdom and the United States are racing to find a vaccine. According to the website of the World Health Organization, as of Nov , there were  COVID candidate vaccines being developed worldwide, and  of them were in clinical trials.