COVID nasal spray ready for use in humans
2020/11/25 8:38
Pedestrians wearing face masks walk on a road in Hong Kong, Nov , .  The central government and the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region government have slammed the irresponsible remarks made in the United Kingdoms latest report on the HKSAR. Saying that the UK is the real culprit undermining the one country, two systems principle, they urged British politicians to wake up from colonial nostalgia and stop interfering and applying double standards on Chinas internal affairs. In the report released on Monday, British Secretary of State for Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Affairs Dominic Raab claimed the implementation of the National Security Law in the HKSAR had violated the one country, two systems principle and its high degree of autonomy. At a news conference in Beijing on Tuesday, Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian strongly condemned the unfounded accusations included in the report, stressing that the UK has no right to interfere in Hong Kong affairs. Zhao urged the British side to abandon its colonial thinking. The HKSAR belongs to China and the UK has no right or moral duty to exercise oversight, he said. Earlier on Monday night, the ministrys commissioners office in the HKSAR said the UK reports accusation of China undermining one country, two systems is completely misplaced. It is the UK that has breached its commitment, pushed forward a BNOBritish national overseas visa scheme, unilaterally suspended the fugitive surrender agreement with the HKSAR, chilled bilateral economic cooperation and trade, and meddled with the HKSARs judicial and legal affairs with a threatening tone. It is crystal clear who is the real culprit for undercutting one country, two systems, the office said in an English statement. The office noted that the UK is running counter to the trend of the times by churning out irrelevant reports and passing judgment on Hong Kong. It urged the British side to wake up from its colonial nostalgia and stop all interference in Hong Kong affairs. Chief Executive Carrie Lam Cheng Yuetngor pointed out that the UK report has fully demonstrated the double standards of British politicians. Noting that the UK has robust laws and intelligence organizations to protect national security, Lam said it is hard to imagine that the UK would leave such work to local governments and police. She added that the National Security Law has enabled the HKSAR to fulfill its obligation in safeguarding national security, which has exactly showed the central governments respect for the one country, two systems principle and the HKSARs high degree of autonomy. In a statement on Tuesday, the HKSAR government strongly objected to the sweeping attacks and groundless accusations contained in the UK report. The government urged the UK to respect the aspirations of lawabiding Hong Kong people for stability and prosperity, and appreciate the SARs wellpositioned status to flourish under one country, two systems with the full support of the central government. Rejecting the partial representation of the international communitys stance made in the report about the National Security Law for Hong Kong, the SAR government took note of the fact that more than  countries supported Chinas decision to enact the law at the th session of the United Nations Human Rights Council. Another case of the UKs double standards is its crying foul at Hong Kongs decision to delay its Legislative Council election for a year by citing the pandemic, while also citing the same reason in March to postpone local elections in England for a year.