Ecommerce surges in Southeast Asia
2020/11/25 7:35
Television hostess Rungnapa Nuymuang promotes Chinese products by livestreaming on the Lazada platform in Bangkok, Thailand.  NEWS SERVICE New players eye wide range of opportunities Leading international online marketplace Lazada made the most of the Singles Day shopping extravaganza this month, cashing in on the ecommerce boom in Southeast Asia during the pandemic. This year, the annual Nov  buying bonanza came with the ecommerce industry in the region enjoying rapid growth as the contagion and related lockdowns accelerated the digital shift in consumption. This is in sharp contrast to many other industries, which are reeling from the unprecedented economic pressure caused by COVID. Jessica Liu, copresident and regional head of commercial at Lazada Group, said that in the second quarter of this year, orders on LazMall, Lazadas businesstocustomer virtual shopping platform, more than tripled yearonyear. Alibaba invested in Lazada in  and acquired control of the company. In the past six months, we have seen an increase in new brands and sellers adopting an online retail approach, from food and beverages, to hospitality, recreation and personal services, as leading global and regional brands give their retail mix a digital overhaul, Liu said. Since the pandemic emerged, the number of brands handled by LazMall has tripled to more than , international and local names across the region, according to the company. Many wellknown department stores and malls, including Metro and Robinsons in Singapore and the Siam Center in Thailand, have also hopped on the digital bandwagon to help their tenants set up virtual storefronts through Lazadas platform. In particular, Liu said the grocery sector has experienced exponential growth since the start of the pandemic. For example, when Singapore raised its Disease Outbreak Response System Condition to the secondhighest level of orange on Feb , that weekend, Lazadas grocery arm RedMart saw a threefold rise in the average number of weekly orders. On Nov  this year, Lazada even invited South Korean actor Lee Minho to be its first regional ambassador. It attracted more than  million users during its Singles Day sale, with its sales surpassing  million soon after the promotion began at midnight, less than half the time it took to reach this figure last year, according to the company. The concept of the Singles Day online shopping festival was first promoted by Chinese ecommerce platforms and was introduced to Southeast Asian markets by Lazada in . The company is just one of many in the regions ecommerce industry to benefit from the pandemic. In the first half of this year, the average value of an order throughout the region rose by  percent yearonyear to ., according to a report by ecommerce aggregator iPrice, which is based in Malaysia. The biggest gains percent and  percent respectivelywere made in the Philippines and Singapore, according to the report, which was produced in collaboration with SimilarWeb and App Annie. Shopee, which is based in Singapore, was the mostvisited ecommerce platform in the citystate as of the second quarter, the report said. From the first quarter to the second, the company saw an  percent rise in the number of users, garnering close to an additional  million visitors on average in the second quarter alone. In Indonesia, management consultancy RedSeer forecast that the gross merchandise value, or GMV, of the countrys ecommerce sector would grow by  percent yearonyear to reach  billion this year and would rise to  billion by . Tokopedia, based in Jakarta, the Indonesian capital, and also backed by Alibaba, said in a statement early last month that food and beverage sales have nearly tripled during the pandemic. The company also found that the new normal of working and learning from home triggered a significant rise in sales of books and computers. Lazadas Bangkok office.  Growth market In Vietnam,  percent of consumers said they had done more shopping online in recent months, according to a survey by digital marketing company Criteo. In Thailand, ecommerce solutions company aCommerce reported yearonyear growth in new customers of between  percent and  percent during the pandemic.  The new customers are not only limited to the techsavvy generation, but also comprise the older generation, which you would not have targeted as a customer base as recently as last year, said aCommerce cofounder and group CEO Paul Srivorakul. On its way to becoming Thailands first unicorna startup valued at more than  billionaCommerce operates across Southeast Asia in markets such as Indonesia, Malaysia and Singapore. The way in which ecommerce is conducted has also diversified, Srivorakul said. Brands are not only doing it on emarketplaces, but on brand.comas well, where we can see volume growing two to three times faster than on emarketplaces, he said. Srivorakul added that social commerce is another growth channel, with brands offering their employees, influencers and store associates incentives such as commission to sell to their social networks. Consumers in emerging Southeast Asian markets are conducting more brand research on social media, according to a report by the agency We Are Social, which is based in London, and Hootsuite, a social media management platform. In Vietnam, the Philippines, Indonesia and Malaysia, nearly  percent of internet users turn to social media for more information about brands. The global average is  percent. Liu, from Lazada, said other critical factors driving the digital shift and redefining the ecommerce shopping experience include livestreaming and the use of artificial intelligence and algorithms to provide better shopping services. In June, Lazadas livestreaming service LazLive attracted more than  million views, nearly three times the number for April, Liu said. Compared with last June, this led to more than  times the total GMV generated through livestreaming, she added. The advent of livestreaming can also be a crossborder opportunity to connect China with Southeast Asia. In April, the Guangxi Zhuang autonomous region website reported that Guangxi TUSInnovation Crossborder Ecommerce Co held a livestreaming session on Lazada to sell antipandemic products such as face masks and goggles. The broadcast attracted nearly , views in Southeast Asia. For Rachel Pang, the founder and CEO of online shopping portal Shopavision, increased digital consumption triggered by COVID resulted in a surprising opportunity for her startup, which aims to be Singapores first and only livestreamfocused shopping site. Over the past four years, Ive seen the growth of livestream commerce, as well as the new retail concept in China, said Pang, an observer of digital and business trends and a frequent traveler to China for market research. Livestream commerce can work here in Singapore, just like it did in China. Shopavision started its prelaunch marketing in December and is due to officially introduce its app before the end of this year. During its first livestreaming session with a crab farm in Singapore, Pang said the portal helped sell live seafood on the spot, registering sales totaling , in just two hours, in addition to providing an educative and experiential tour of the farm. More than  livestreaming shows were held during the threemonth prelaunch marketing period, Pang said, generating over , views, more than , in sales and reaching  million people. The platform now has a team of  livestream hosts. But until last year, Pang said nine out of  people she spoke to in Singapore were still unfamiliar with livestreaming. The number of online shoppers has hit a new high during the pandemic, she said. With livestreaming on social media platforms such as Facebook becoming more common, she added that such broadcasts have the potential to drive marketing and sales. Lazadas Liu said that even before the pandemic started, Southeast Asia was undergoing rapid digitalization, and the contagion has accelerated this trend. According to a report by Facebook and the global consultancy Bain  Co,  percent of consumers, or  million people, in the region are expected to have gone digital by the end of this yeara figure previously forecast for . The regions ecommerce GMV grew by  percent annually from  to this year, faster than Chinas compound annual growth rate during the same period, the report said. Liu said, Ecommerce is projected to grow to  billion by , but has a penetration rate of less than  percent among the  million people living in Southeast Asia. She added that this presents huge opportunities for ecommerce companies. However, she said the region faces a number of challenges in developing ecommerce, ranging from the lack of a logistics and payment infrastructure to numerous consumer preferences, as well as crossborder concerns. A livestreaming hostess promotes products during a broadcast at a studio in Shanghai. Photo by HECTOR RETAMALFOR CHINA DAILY Rise in demand Srivorakul, from aCommerce, said logistics infrastructure in markets such as the Philippines and Indonesia is still in its infancy and is expensive. The significant spike in online traffic and ecommerce continues. Business across the entire value chain, from supply chain, logistics, marketing and customer service to ecommerce enablers, is growing significantly, Srivorakul said. As digital marketing is a large part of ecommerce, he said surging demand for online shopping has created several opportunities for such businesses to acquire new customers more easily. Offline shopping will definitely grow back when the pandemic ends, but consumers will not forget the experience they have when doing their shopping online, Srivorakul said. Pang, from Shopavision, who is eager to expand to other Southeast Asian markets such as Malaysia, Indonesia and Thailand, said she hopes to make livestream commerce an integral part of peoples lifestyles in the region, as is the case in China. We are definitely interested in collaborating with Chinese partners and have lots to learn from them, she said.