China vows to expand global free trade area network
2020/11/25 2:03
A Sasquatch statue dressed as a pilgrim with a face mask is seen two days before Thanksgiving on November ,  in Bucks County, Pennsylvania, US.  Millions of Americans are traveling for the Thanksgiving holiday despite a deadly surge in coronavirus cases and a dont do it warning from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention CDC and public health experts. More than  million travelers were screened at US airports on Friday, Saturday and Sunday, according to data from the Transportation Security Administration. Sunday ranked as the singlebusiest day at airport checkpoints since the pandemic began in March, with  million people screened. That was less than half the number for the same time in , but still raised concerns as some travelers wore masks while others didnt. For US airlines, Thanksgiving has been one of the busiest periods of the year. Last year, . million Americans flew on carriers in the runup to the holiday. That generated  billion for the industry out of a total of  billion revenue in . This year, American Airlines has increased flights to accommodate the travel rush. It usually has , flights a day but now has , over the holiday. There is so much community transmission all over the United States that the chances of you encountering somebody that has COVID is actually very, very high, whether its on an airplane, at the airport or at a rest area, said Dr Syra Madad, an infectiousdiseases epidemiologist for New York City hospitals. More than  million Americans will travel by various means for Thanksgiving this year, a drop from  million in , according to the American Automobile Association AAA. Paula Twidale, seniorvice president at AAA, predicts that the majority will go by car. Based on surveys in midOctober, the association was expecting . million people to drive to Thanksgiving gatherings, down from last year. Americans in our research are telling us they are tired of being at home, said Roger Dow, president and CEO of the US Travel Association on a conference call with journalists on Nov . They dont want to give up taking trips and they also want to see their friends and family for the holidays. Amid a worsening pandemic, the US continues to break records with the number of cases and deaths. The death toll from COVID was , on Monday, according to data from Johns Hopkins University. There were , new coronavirus cases on Sunday. That day,  people died. On Friday, there was a record high of , cases, and more than , people are in hospital with the virus. Since last week, the CDC has been urging people not to travel for the holiday nor spend it with people outside their household. Dr Anthony Fauci, director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, sounded the alarm again on Sunday People at airports are going to get us into even more trouble than were in right now. One of the things were really concerned about is that as we get into this Thanksgiving season, youre not going to see an increase until weeks later. Things lag. So, what you dont want to see is another spike in cases, he said on CBS Face the Nation. The CDC advises people still heading to Thanksgiving gatherings to bring your own food, drinks, plates, cups and utensils. Avoid areas where food is being prepared. And use singleuse options, like salad dressing and condiment packets. Airlines and airports are taking extra precautions to help prevent the spread of the coronavirus, including deep cleaning and disinfecting hightouch surfaces in airports and in airplane cabins placing markings on floors to help people remain at least six feet apart and mandating the wearing of face coverings or masks at all times. The Swedish drugmaker AstraZeneca announced on Monday that interim data for its vaccine candidate suggests  percent protection, but the researchers say the figure may be as high as  percent by tweaking the dose. The company, which has been developing the vaccine with the University of Oxford, became the third major vaccine developer this month to announce encouraging early results, following Pfizer and Moderna, whose vaccines are  percent effective.