For Thanksgiving, millions wont stay home in pandemic
2020/11/24 9:52
A UNICEF worker helps an internally displaced girl put on a face mask at a makeshift camp, amid the coronavirus disease COVID outbreak, in Jalalabad, Afghanistan June , .  UNITED NATIONS  The UN Childrens Fund UNICEF is working with more than  partners, including major airlines, shipping lines and logistics associations from around the world, to deliver COVID vaccines to over  countries, as soon as doses become available, the agency said on Monday. Etleva Kadilli, director of UNICEF Supply Division, highlighted the importance of the partnership to ensure capacity for the massive undertaking. As work continues to develop COVID vaccines, UNICEF is stepping up efforts with airlines, freight operators, shipping lines and other logistics associations to deliver lifesaving vaccines as quickly and safely as possible, she said. This invaluable collaboration will go a long way to ensure that enough transport capacity is in place for this historic and mammoth operation. We need all hands on deck as we get ready to deliver COVID vaccine doses, syringes and more personal protective equipment to protect front line workers around the globe, the UNICEF official added. To kickstart preparations, UNICEF along with the Pan American Health Organization PAHO and the International Air Transport Association IATA briefed major global airlines last week on the expected capacity requirements and discussed ways to transport close to  billion doses of COVID vaccine doses next year. This is in addition to the  billion syringes that need to be transported by seafreight. In the coming weeks, UNICEF is also assessing existing transport capacity to identify gaps and future requirements, said the agency. The procurement, delivery and distribution of COVID vaccines is anticipated to be the largest and fastest such operation ever undertaken, it added. UNICEF is leading efforts to procure and deliver vaccines from manufacturers that have agreements with the COVAX Facility. In collaboration with PAHO, UNICEF will coordinate the purchase and delivery for  low and lower middleincome economies as quickly and securely as possible. The efforts build on UNICEFs longstanding efforts with the logistics industry to transport supplies around the world despite restrictions related to the pandemic. Since January, it has delivered over  million US dollars worth of COVID supplies such as masks, gowns, oxygen concentrators and diagnostic test kits to support countries as they respond to the pandemic. As the largest single purchaser of vaccines in the world, UNICEF normally procures more than  billion doses of vaccines annually for routine immunization and outbreak response on behalf of nearly  countries. This unparalleled expertise includes the coordination of thousands of shipments with various cold chain requirements, making the UN agency an expert in supply chain management of temperaturecontrolled products, which is especially needed during this historic undertaking.