Tianjin reports no positive COVID test results in Binhai New Area
2020/11/23 11:16
WASHINGTON  Amid surging COVID cases and an incompetent response by the government, the University of Nebraska Medical Center, a leading US hospital in handling dangerous and unusual diseases, has been nearly overwhelmed, according to a media report. With the countrys only federal quarantine facility and a large biocontainment unit, the hospital in Omaha, Nebraska is believed as the bestprepared hospital in the United States to handle a pandemic, according to the report released Friday by The Atlantic. Its staff began specifically preparing for emerging infections after the SARS outbreak in  and it has detailed pandemic plans as well as experience in handling infectious diseases such as Ebola, said the report. However, the hospital now is on an absolutely catastrophic path, Angela Hewlett, an infectiousdisease specialist, was quoted by The Atlantic as saying. As some , Nebraskans test positive for the virus every day, the hospital has to convert an entire building into a COVID facility with  units in total, of which three provide intensive care and one provides comfort care, said the report. The surging COVID cases have nearly pushed the hospital to its capacity ceiling. With the hospital shortstaffed and beds limited, patients with strokes and other urgent diseases are not getting the normal level of attention, according to the report. Were watching a system breaking in front of us and were helpless to stop it, criticalcare physician Kelly Cawcutt was quoted by the report as saying. Dan Johnson, another criticalcare doctor, said what makes the situation worse is that it was preventable. The coronavirus is not unstoppable but the US administration never mounted a serious effort to stop it and created a situation in which hospitals could not possibly succeed, said the report, adding that on Tuesday, Nebraska Governor Pete Ricketts once again refused to issue a statewide mask mandate. The number of COVID cases in the United States has topped  million with over , deaths, according to a realtime count kept by Johns Hopkins University. We can prepare over and over for a wave of patients, but we cant prepare for a tsunami, Cawcutt was quoted by the report as saying.