Hong Kongs daily COVID infections hit month high
2020/11/22 8:04
Pedestrians wearing face masks wait to cross a road in Hong Kong, South China, Nov , .  HONG KONG  Hong Kong on Saturday reported the highest number of daily new cases of COVID in about three months, with the authorities toughening up measures to fend off a new wave of the coronavirus outbreak. The Center for Health Protection CHP said there were seven new imported cases and  local infections detected on Saturday, including  with unknown origins. Meanwhile, over  people tested positive for COVID primarily. Head of the CHPs Communicable Disease Branch Chuang Shukkwan said the new cases have been rising rapidly in recent days, and warned of a fourth wave of the epidemic outbreak. In the face of the resurgence of COVID cases, the government of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region HKSAR has tightened social distancing measures including banning live performance in bars and nightclubs and suspending inperson learning for grade  primary school students. A child wearing a face mask is seen at a shopping mall in North Point, Hong Kong, South China, Nov , .  To reduce imported cases, the government also raised the threshold for the crew members of flights to obtain exemption of quarantine. Among the new requirements starting Sunday is that they must have a negative testing result within  hours and take another test after arriving in Hong Kong. Data showed crew members of flights accounted for about  percent of all the visitors exempted from quarantine in Hong Kong every day. The exemption policy for other visitors including sailors of cargo ships was also tightened. Pedestrians wearing face masks walk across a road in Hong Kong, South China, Nov , .  HKSAR Chief Executive Carrie Lam has said in a social media post that the situation was fairly severe and pledged more testings to cut transmission chains. Due to the worsening epidemic, the bilateral Air Travel Bubble between Hong Kong and Singapore due to start on Sunday will be postponed for two weeks and the launch time will be subject to the situation of the epidemic.? Pedestrians wearing face masks wait to cross a road in Hung Hom, Hong Kong, South China, Nov , .  Pedestrians wearing face masks walk across a road in Hung Hom, Hong Kong, South China, Nov , . 