US COVID cases surpass m  Johns Hopkins University
2020/11/22 6:18
NEW YORK ?The total number of COVID cases in the United States topped  million on Saturday, according to the Center for Systems Science and Engineering at Johns Hopkins University. US COVID case count rose to ,,, with a total of , deaths, as of  pm local time  GMT, according to the CSSE tally. Texas reported the countrys most cases, standing at ,,, followed by California with ,, cases, and Florida with , cases. Illinois registered , cases and New York confirmed , cases. Other states with over , cases include Georgia, Wisconsin, Ohio, Tennessee, North Carolina, Michigan, Pennsylvania and New Jersey, the CSSE data showed. By far, the United States remains the nation worst hit by the pandemic, with the worlds most cases and deaths, making up more than  percent of the global caseload. US COVID cases hit  million on Nov , and increased by  million within a week. Starting from Nov , the numbers of US daily cases have been surging above the threshold of ,, which has never been seen in past months. On Friday, a total of , new cases were identified across the country, marking the highest daily rise in new cases since the pandemic began, according to data compiled by Johns Hopkins University. In a scientific brief updated on Nov , the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention noted masks are intended to reduce the emission of virusladen droplets, especially for asymptomatic or presymptomatic infected wearers, who are estimated to account for more than  percent of transmissions. As Thanksgiving approaches, the CDC released guidance on holiday celebrations. Given the high risks of exposure to the coronavirus through travel and gathering, the safest way to celebrate Thanksgiving is to celebrate at home with the people one lives with, according to the guidance. Gatherings with family members and friends who live in other locations can increase the chances of getting or spreading COVID or the flu, the agency warned. Some experts recommended alternative holiday plans, including outdoor gathering, virtual dinner party, online shopping and watching parades, sports events from home.