Chinas tourism industry sees strong postpandemic recovery
2021/9/23 16:04
Tourism revenue during the MidAutumn Festival holiday reached . billion yuan about . billion, recovering to . percent of that in . During this years threeday MidAutumn Festival holiday, China witnessed more than  million domestic trips, about . percent of the figure for , highlighting the strong recovery momentum in the countrys tourism sector. According to the Ministry of Culture and Tourism, the tourism revenue during the holiday reached . billion yuan about . billion, recovering to . percent of that in . Chinas tourism industry seems to have adapted to the current situation of regular epidemic prevention and control, with growing market demand and more innovative business models and growth points. In , the international tourism industry was battered by the COVID pandemic, witnessing a sharp decrease of  percent in the number of international tourists worldwide, according to the World Conference on Tourism Cooperation and Development held in Beijing. However, with the rigorous implementation of regular epidemic prevention, Chinas tourism market has gradually recovered since the beginning of this year. Statistics show that in the first half of , the number of domestic tourists in China reached . billion, rising by . percent year on year. The gross revenue of domestic tourism hit . trillion yuan, up . percent from one year earlier. As Chinas tourism market digested the impact of the pandemic, new trends and business models emerged. Themepark tours, shortdistance tours and road trips have become popular in the past MidAutumn Festival holiday. Chinas leading online travel agency Trip.com Group, formerly known as Ctrip, released a report on tourism data during the MidAutumn Festival holiday, which highlighted the strong demand for shortdistance trips. A number of shortdistance tours are offered as bundles with offline social games, such as Jubensha, literally translated as script homicide  a roleplaying murdermystery game that is growing in popularity among young people. The bundle is one of the novel business models emerging in Chinas travel market, said He Jingfu, head of an entertainment company in east Chinas Shandong Province, adding that Jubensha is bringing more possibilities to the tourism industry. Meanwhile, an increasing number of Chinese tourists are being drawn to domestic theme parks, including the newlyopened Universal Beijing Resort and Shanghai Disneyland. The Universal Beijing Resort, currently the largest in scale worldwide, opened to the public on Monday, and was ranked among the top three most popular tourist destinations before this years MidAutumn Festival holiday, according to Trip.com Group. On the Qunar.com, Chinas online travelservice provider, tickets for the resort in the MidAutumn Festival holiday were sold out within  minutes, with the first one gone in a second. The recovery of Chinas cultural tourism market is also bringing more opportunities and benefits to the global tourism industry, aided by various tourism fairs and expos. From Sept  to , the nd China International Cultural Tourism Fair CICTF was held in Shandongs capital city of Jinan, attracting tourism authorities from  countries and more than , exhibitors with over , exhibits. Deals worth  million yuan were inked at the fair, an increase of . percent over the previous one. Among the highlights at such exhibitions are goods from countries along the Belt and Road, including exotic souvenirs that would normally be sold to Chinese tourists abroad. Foreign businesses have been making up for the shortfall in orders by promoting their goods directly in China, thereby tapping directly into Chinas vigorous market. Davor Richard, who hails from Ghana, went through a difficult time this year. His family is running a trade company in Shanghai, selling African tabla, masks, shea butter and other specialties that were popular among Chinese tourists before the pandemic. My business took a serious hit from the pandemic, but now things seem to be picking up again. The Chinese government has organized a lot of fairs just like this one. Customers are contacting us and orders are starting to boom again, said Richard. Also at the fair was Muzaffar Bhat, an Iranian carpet seller, who said that the world is now sharing the fruit of Chinas tourism recovery, with tourism fairs like CICTF springing up again and business opportunities popping up anywhere. While the carpet market is relatively niche, he said the huge scale of Chinese market gives him hope for the future.