Financial support to focus on  sectors
2020/11/20 10:04
? A medical specialist examines patients tests in a laboratory inside a pavilion of the Exhibition of Achievements of National Economy VDNH, which was converted into a temporary hospital for people suffering from the coronavirus disease COVID, in Moscow, on Nov , .  Moscow health officials have expressed confidence in their ability to cope with a rise in coronavirus infections, in a challenge that may be compounded by the arrival of wintry weather in the Russian capital. We are ready for any development in the pandemic, said Valery Vechorko, the chief medical officer of Moscows Filatov Hospital. Regarding the evaluation of the situation as a whole, it is still too early to talk about any stabilization and, as we know, restrictive measures are in effect from Nov  through January . It is possible to presume that, if our citizens wont observe the measures we recommend, we may see an increase in incidence during winter holidays. He stressed the importance of people wearing masks and gloves and maintaining social distancing. On Thursday, Russias coronavirus crisis center reported , new cases with  deaths. The total number of infections surpassed  million in Russia, which has the fifth most cases in the world. Unfortunately, our situation is not a simple one, Russian President Vladimir Putin said in a video conference with Cabinet members on Wednesday, when he assigned Deputy Prime Minister Tatyana Golikova to provide an update on the pandemic. Particular attention As we agreed earlier, we will pay particular attention to the coronavirus situation in Russia. In the conference, Deputy Finance Minister Vladimir Kolychev said a second wave of the coronavirus hitting the country has not depressed businesses activity too much. Although the Kremlin sees no need for new business support measures, authorities have adjusted to the current environment in their policies, Kolychev said. We believe that the fact that economic authorities have adjusted to unexpected developments both in monetary policy and in budget policy has played a certain role and is relatively meaningful, he said. On Wednesday, an oxygen supply line exploded at Kommunarka Hospital, Moscows main coronavirus treatment center. A video posted on social media showed clouds of white steam rising from the hospital, which is treating  coronavirus patients. The RBC news website quoted eyewitnesses as saying that they saw the smoke following a loud bang. In a statement shortly after the explosion, the Moscow Health Department said that an oxygen line was depressurized during installation at a temporary ward that is under construction. The department added that there is no threat to patients or hospital staff. The Mash Telegram channel reported, without citing sources, that one hospital employee was injured but is in a satisfactory condition. It added that  patients from three temporary hospital buildings have been evacuated to the main hospital building. The staterun Tass news agency cited an unnamed source as saying that the hospitals operations were not disrupted by the explosion.