Moscow confident on coping with surge
2020/11/19 10:21
? A man wearing a protective face mask pauses under colorful autumn leaves, amid the coronavirus disease outbreak, in Tokyo, on Nov , .  TOKYOSEOULCoronavirus infections in Tokyo and South Korea hit fresh singleday highs on Wednesday as AsiaPacific countries that fared relatively well in the pandemic encounter setbacks. Thats also true of Australia, where a highly contagious strain of the virus forced a statewide lockdown. Tokyo authorities announced nearly  new cases of the virus on Wednesday, the biggest daily increase in the Japanese capital since the pandemic began, amid a nationwide spike in infections. The Tokyo metropolitan government said there were  new cases on Wednesday, surpassing the citys previous high of  recorded on Aug , during the peak of Japans earlier wave of infections. Tokyo said officials were expected to meet on Thursday to discuss if the city needs to raise the alert to the highest level. South Korea also recorded its largest daily increase in infections in nearly three months as it gets set to tighten rules in the greater Seoul area. The Korea Disease Control and Prevention Agency reported  cases on Wednesday, raising the countrys total to ,. It is the first time the countrys daily caseload exceeded  since late August. In Australia, the premier of South Australia state, Steven Marshall, announced a strict sixday lockdown in an attempt to prevent the spread of the virus. Twentytwo cases have now been linked to a cluster that emerged from an Adelaide hotel used to quarantine travelers. Globally, there were ,, confirmed cases and ,, deaths as of Wednesday afternoon, according to a tally kept by Johns Hopkins University in the United States. Spike in deaths In Britain, the number of coronavirusrelated deaths rose by  to ,, marking the highest daily number of fatalities since May . In a development reported on Tuesday, Englishman Brian Stoodley, , told The Sun newspaper that he suspected he was the first to have been infected with the coronavirus in the United Kingdom in September last year, after a family holiday to Rome. Stoodley of Dorchester, Dorset, told the newspaper A week after returning from Italy I started getting flulike symptomsa cough and breathlessness with a temperature that was creeping up. Im almost  percent that I know I had coronavirus. Ive been saying it to friends and family for months but Ive always been told that I couldnt possibly have had it then, because the first cases were found in China in December that year. He added But the reports now saying it was in Italy in September that year have vindicated me. A study published last week in the scientific magazine Tumori Journal shows that the virus had existed in Italy before it was first detected in China. Xinhua  Agencies