Huanjiang promotes cultural heritage inheritance, protection
2020/11/18 6:40
Listed Chinese internet companies registered a total market value of . trillion yuan . trillion as of Sept , up  percent from a month earlier, according a study from the China Academy of Information and Communications Technology on Oct . During the second quarter this year, total revenue of listed Chinese internet companies stood at . billion yuan. With a yearonyear growth rate of . percent, the revenue growth rate rose . percentage points from the first quarter but dropped  percentage points over the same period last year. In terms of subindustries, companies in online education, internet finance and residential service posted rapid growth. Lets take a look at the top  internet companies. No  Eastmoney Securities Market value . billion yuan A screenshot from the website of Eastmoney Securities.  Eastmoney Securities No  AliHealth Market value . billion yuan The logo of AliHealth.  No  Baidu Market value . billion yuan A staff member wearing a face mask is seen inside a Baidu Apollo selfdriving vehicle at the companys headquarters in Beijing, on May , .  No  NetEase Market value . billion yuan The logo of the Chinese technology company NetEase is seen on an advertisement at a bus stop in Beijing, on May , .  No  Ke.com Market value . billion yuan A mockup of the mobile app of real estate site Ke.com.  No  Pinduoduo Market value . billion yuan The Pinduoduo logo is seen in this photo taken July , .  No  JD Market value . billion yuan A sign of Chinas ecommerce company JD is seen at its shop at a mall in Shanghai, on Oct , .  No  Meituan Dianping Market value . trillion yuan A deliveryman for Meituan Dianping, the countrys largest ondemand service platform, delivers food in Beijing. Photo provided to chinadaily.com.cn No  Tencent Market value . trillion yuan WeChat mascots are displayed inside the Tencent office at the TIT Creativity Industry Zone in Guangzhou, on May , .  No  Alibaba Market value . trillion yuan A logo of Alibaba Group is seen at an exhibition during the World Intelligence Congress in Tianjin, May , . 