In Anhui, acrobats flip, twist and tumble
2020/11/17 12:51
The Fifth Anhui Folk Acrobatic Art Festival kicked off in Linquan county, Anhui province on Monday. Acrobatic troupes from around the country were invited to perform during the opening ceremony. Photo by Zhu Lixinchinadaily.com.cn The Fifth Anhui Folk Acrobatic Art Festival kicked off in Linquan county, Anhui province, on Monday afternoon. It will last until Wednesday. Acrobatic troupes from across the country were invited to perform for  minutes during the opening ceremony. During the festival, residents and visitors will see more performances of the folk art, which has been popular in the county for hundreds of years. Linquan has a long history of acrobatics. More than , of the countys . million residents are engaged in the business, bringing in a combined annual income of more than  million yuan  million, according to the local government. An acrobatic troupe performs during the opening ceremony of the Fifth Anhui Folk Acrobatic Art Festival in Linquan county, Anhui province, on Monday. Photo by Zhu Lixinchinadaily.com.cn A female acrobat performs during the opening ceremony of the Fifth Anhui Folk Acrobatic Art Festival in Linquan county, Anhui province, on Monday. Photo by Zhu Lixinchinadaily.com.cn An acrobatic troupe performs during the opening ceremony of the Fifth Anhui Folk Acrobatic Art Festival in Linquan county, Anhui province, on Monday. Photo by Zhu Lixinchinadaily.com.cn Children from two local acrobatic schools in Linquan perform during the opening ceremony on Monday afternoon. Photo by Zhu Lixinchinadaily.com.cn Residents and visitors watch the performance during the opening ceremony on Monday. They were screened for body temperature and required to wear masks. Photo by Zhu Lixinchinadaily.com.cn Residents and visitors watch the performance during the opening ceremony on Monday. They were screened for body temperature and required to wear masks. Photo by Zhu Lixinchinadaily.com.cn Children from a local acrobatic school in Linquan warm up before their performance in the opening ceremony. Photo by Zhu Lixinchinadaily.com.cn Performers prepare to get on stage for the final part of the opening ceremony. As their act ended, they released the balloons into the sky. Photo by Zhu Lixinchinadaily.com.cn