China maintains as Namibias top export market in September
2020/11/17 7:11
People wearing face masks visit the Ruins of St. Pauls in Macao, Jan , .  Macao will actively participate in the national development plan to contribute to further openingup, while also reviving the coronavirusbattered local economy, Chief Executive of the Macao Special Administrative Region Ho Iatseng said on Monday. In his  Policy Address, Ho highlighted the citys unique role in the nations th FiveYear Plan  and the dual circulation economic strategy. Ho stressed that it was both an opportunity and responsibility for Macao to help connect the Chinese mainland with global markets. At the same time, the city will accelerate its integration with the Chinese mainlands economy, by increasing the efficient and free flow of people, goods and capital, said Ho. To achieve the goal, Macao will promote the GuangdongHong KongMacao Greater Bay Area, a major regional project, in a pragmatic manner, he said. For example, it will be made easier for Macao residents to travel to the mainland and work there. Macao will also continue to take measures to improve peoples livelihoods and social security. For the th consecutive year, the government will distribute a cash bonus of , patacas , to all eligible permanent residents, along with other subsidies for utilities, public transportation and education. However, Ho pointed out that the small city, which relies heavily on revenue from the gaming industry and tourism, is facing a severe economic recession and a large fiscal deficit. By the end of September, Macaos public expenditure had risen  percent yearonyear to . billion patacas, while its public revenue fell  percent yearonyear to . billion patacas due to the impact of the COVID pandemic. The resumption of individual tourism from the mainland to Macao has spurred consumption in the SAR and the market is rebounding, but Ho expects the citys economic growth to remain in negative territory this year. With epidemic prevention and control measures expected to continue, Macao will adjust its overall tourism plan and promote the city as a safe and healthy tourist destination. As of Monday, Macao had been free of local COVID cases for  days and imported cases for  days. Ho also pledged that Macao will continue to improve its legal system and enforcement mechanisms to safeguard national security. The SAR passed its national security legislation in  in accordance with Article  of its Basic Law. The city will also make full use of modern media technologies and internet platforms to enhance publicity on the Constitution, the Basic Law of Macao and raise residents awareness of national security.