New focus areas key to AfricaChina trade and economic ties
2020/11/17 0:02
US Presidentelect Joe Biden waves as he departs church in Wilmington, Delaware, US, November , .  Scientists on Presidentelect Joe Bidens transition team will meet with vaccine makers to get around President Donald Trumps blocking the team from distribution plans for the biggest vaccination effort in US history. Were going to start those consultations this week, Bidens chief of staff, Ron Klain, said Sunday, citing Pfizer and other pharmaceutical companies. He said Bidens experts need a detailed understanding of distribution plans being put together by the Department of Health and Human Services and the Pentagon. In some ways, thats the more critical issue, he said. Its great to have a vaccine, but vaccines dont save lives vaccinations save lives. And that means youve got to get that vaccine into peoples arms all over this country. Its a giant logistical project, Klain said. Trumps refusal to concede the election to Biden has prevented the transition process from formally beginning. The General Services Administration GSA has yet to ascertain the winner of the election, is leaving Biden and his advisers without intelligence briefings and the usual resources given to a presidentelect for a smooth transition. It means those working to develop the vaccinedistribution plan cant share it with those who will take over in January. What we really want to see this week is the GSA issue that ascertainment, Klain said, which would enable Bidens team to meet with public health officials and receive intelligence briefings. Of course, it would be better if we could start working with them, Dr Anthony Fauci, head of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, said Sunday on CNN about working with Bidens transition team. I have been through multiple transitions now, having served six presidents for  years, he said. And its very clear that that transition process that we go through, that time period of measured in several weeks to months, is really important in a smooth handing over of the information. Its almost like passing a baton in a race C you dont want to stop and then give it to somebody, Fauci said of the transition. You want to just essentially keep going. Admiral Brett Giroir, a member of the White House coronavirus task force, said Sunday on ABCs This Week that he wants to share information about the pandemic and that it shouldnt be a political process. He said that while the GSA controls the process, My team, all the docs that work for us, we want to be extremely transparent. This is not a political issue, Giroir said. This is an issue of public health and saving American lives. And I think theres nothing more important than that. The announcement that Bidens scientific advisers on COVID will meet with vaccine manufacturers comes as the number of new coronavirus cases reported in the US was , on Sunday and deaths totaled ,, according to data from Johns Hopkins University. That means the US is adding about  million new cases a week. Dr Michael Osterholm, a member of Bidens COVID advisory group, said Sunday that the country was in a very dangerous period, calling it the most dangerous public health crisis since the  influenza pandemic, which killed an estimated  million worldwide, including some , Americans. My worst fear is we will see what we saw happening in other countries, where people were dying on the streets, he said on NBCs Meet the Press. The health care system is breaking, literally breaking. Pfizer announced Nov  that its vaccine demonstrated more than  percent effectiveness and no serious bad reactions in early trial results. The company plans to ask the US Food and Drug Administration for emergency authorization later this month once it collects more safety data for another week or two. It will manufacture enough doses for  million to  million people. Americans will get it for free. Other vaccine makers are also in the final phase of testing their formulations, and Fauci said he expects those vaccines will also be highly effective. He stressed the arrival of vaccines wont be like flipping a switch to return to normal life. He said Americans will have to keep up preventive measures such as wearing masks, social distancing and washing their hands well into next year. Asked how he thought history would remember the US governments response to the pandemic, Fauci said, Obviously its not going to be a good report, because of the extent of suffering that weve had. He added, however, that the answer was complex, and that many variables were involved in the failure, including the nations flair of independence and the fact that many Americans simply dont want to be told what to do.