The world in photos Nov
2020/11/16 14:57
Here are some of the most striking images taken from around the world over the past week. People pass the Times Square in New York, Nov , . The total number of COVID cases in the United States reached a grim milestone of  million, according to the Center for Systems Science and Engineering at Johns Hopkins University. US COVID case count rose to ,,, with a total of , deaths, as of  pm local time  GMT, according to the CSSE tally.  European Unions chief Brexit negotiator Michel Barnier front centre and members of the EU delegation head for trade talks with Britain in London, on Nov , . Negotiators from Britain and the EU resumed talks on a postBrexit trade deal in London on Monday as significant differences remain between the two sides, a Downing Street statement said Saturday.  A woman wearing a protective face mask makes her way past the Hadrians Library archaeological site, after the Greek government imposed a nationwide lockdown to contain the spread of COVID, in Athens, Greece, Nov , .  Staff members sort goods in a Cainiao overseas warehouse in Guadalajara city in Spain, Nov , . Chinas Singles Day is a shopping event similar to Black Friday in Western countries.  A medical staff member works in a COVID quarantine area of a hospital in Italy, Nov , .  French President Emmanuel Macron, European Council President Charles Michel, Senegals President Macky Sall and International Monetary Fund Managing Director Kristalina Georgieva attend The Paris Peace Forum at The Elysee Palace amid the COVID outbreak, in Paris, Nov , .  A boy plays with a cat in an evacuation center in Quezon City, the Philippines, on Nov , . Typhoon Vamco, the third powerful cyclone to batter the Philippines in  days, made landfall on Wednesday night, unleashing fierce winds and intense rains that triggered landslide, rockslide and flash floods.  A B operated by Qantas flies above Sydney in this handout photo provided to Reuters on Nov , . There will be an event celebrating Qantas th birthday at Sydney Airport in Sydney, Nov , .  People gather outside Congress after Perus interim President Manuel Merino announced his resignation, in Lima, Peru, Nov , .  Igor Dodon, Moldovas president and presidential candidate, and his wife Galina cast their ballots at a polling station during the second round of a presidential election in Chisinau, Moldova, Nov , . 