The world in photos Nov  C
2020/11/16 14:26
A medical staff member treats a patient suffering from the coronavirus disease COVID in the COVID intensive care unit ICU at the United Memorial Medical Center on Nov ,  in Houston, Texas.  WASHINGTON  The total number of COVID cases in the United States surpassed  million on Sunday as states across the country moved to adopt new restrictions to curb the virus which is surging at a daily record speed. The United States recorded ,, cases, with more than , deaths as of  pm Eastern Time on Sunday  GMT Monday, according to the Center for Systems Science and Engineering CSSE at Johns Hopkins University. The latest grim milestone came just six days after the country logged  million cases. At least  states have reported more new infections this past week compared with the previous week, according to the CSSE tally. The United States reported , new COVID cases on Sunday, after an alltime high increase of nearly , new cases on Thursday, according to data updated Friday by the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention CDC. On Friday, California became the countrys second state to surpass  million COVID cases since the start of the pandemic, closely following Texas. A new forecast released by the Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation at the University of Washington on Thursday projected , cumulative COVID deaths across the United States by March , and a peak of daily deaths in midJanuary at , a day. In response to the surge of new infections, governors across the country moved to curb the virus with new restrictions as potential vaccines are months away from widespread distribution. Washington State Governor Jay Inslee on Sunday announced broad new restrictions for the next four weeks, including shutting down indoor service at restaurants and bars, gyms, movie theaters, and museums. Michigan Governor Gretchen Whitmer ordered three weeks of new restrictions on Sunday, including halting inperson classes for high schools and colleges, and prohibiting indoor service at bars and restaurants. Virginia Governor Ralph Northam on Friday announced new restrictions on public and private gatherings, an expanded mask mandate, strengthened enforcement at retail businesses, and an alcohol curfew. These restrictions will take effect at midnight on Monday. Oregon Governor Kate Brown on Friday announced a twoweek long freeze that will close certain businesses and dramatically reduce capacity of indoor spaces. New Mexico Governor Michelle Lujan Grisham announced a statewide shelterinplace order starting Monday for two weeks, including the Thanksgiving holiday weekend. Vermont Governor Phil Scott Friday implemented strict new guidelines for social gatherings, bars and restaurants, as well as sports leagues. Starting Friday, multihousehold gatherings  both inside and outside  are prohibited and all nonschool sports leagues are on pause.