Raising awareness of mental health amid the pandemic
2020/11/16 9:19
Cars line up at Dodger Stadium in Los Angeles for COVID testing on Saturday. DAVID MCNEWGETTY IMAGESAFP Stockpiles of PPE remain woefully low as country faces tidal wave of new infections At the beginning of the COVID pandemic in the United States in March, the country scrambled to find personal protective equipment, or PPE, for healthcare professionals to fight the virus. That pressure is back on again after US recorded , new cases on Friday, a record, according to Johns Hopkins University. Hospitalizations have also soared, with at least  states breaking records. The Governor of Washington state, Jay Inslee, scheduled a news conference for Sunday morning as case numbers soar throughout the Pacific Northwest, for which he will reportedly detail new restrictions. Inslees office said he would discuss actions to combat the crisis but offered no details. The Seattle Times reported that among Inslees announcements would be a ban on indoor service in restaurants and bars and significantly reduced capacity in grocery stores and other retail shops. Early on Sunday, ,, people in the United States had been infected with the coronavirus and at least , had died, Johns Hopkins University said. Although the supply of PPE has improved since spring, the US now finds itself still facing a shortage of gowns, gloves, masks and goggles as most states are dealing with another surge of coronavirus cases. Recent reports from hospitals and nursing homes reveal that the PPE stockpile remains woefully low and the supply chain in the country underdeveloped. Makers of N masks, which filter out at least  percent of very small particles, including viruses, and are regarded as the most effective tool for protection against airborne droplets, are struggling to keep up with demand from hospitals, nursing homes and other healthcare facilities, as well as businesses in other sectors that require them to protect workers and the public, CBS News has reported. M Co, the largest domestic manufacturer of N masks, told CBS that US and global demand for PPE continues to far exceed supply for the entire industry. In Michigan, two out of three health systems reported less than a threeweek supply for one or more types of PPE, with some hospitals reporting less than a sevenday supply of N masks, The Wall Street Journal said. Most critical shortage The most critical medical supply shortage that has been reported in recent weeks is in disposable nitrile gloves,  percent of which are made in China and Malaysia. There are few nitrile glove makers in the US, and ramping up production in the country would be a lengthy process. The US imported . billion masks between March and October, according to official Chinese figures, averaging more than  masks per person in the US. Many nursing homes are short of PPE, posing serious risks to senior citizens, a recent study by the US Public Interest Research Group said. About . million people with longterm medical issues or shortterm rehabilitation needs are residing in the countrys , nursing homes, it said. The study found that  percent of nursing homes had a supply of less than one week of one or more types of PPE in late August. Twenty percent of nursing homes reported that they were out of one or more types of PPE at some point from late May through late August, it said. A recent analysis of PPE supplies by Harvard Business Review concluded that many glaring supplychain deficiencies need to be fixed. The analysis found that the Strategic National Stockpile, or SNS, established by George W Bush in , was illprepared to deal with the pandemic need for PPE because of lack of expertise. The SNSs hardworking employees are doing their best in the crisis, but we found key gaps in expertise, the review said. We believe that the SNSs slow response and lack of effectiveness in the crisis is partly due to a shortage of people who are capable of understanding the current state of play in the supply chain, making decisions, getting rapid authorization, and taking immediate action. Mike Schiller, senior director of supply chains for the Association for Healthcare Resource and Materials Management, said a much more coordinated and strategic effort at regional, state and national levels is needed to deal with shortages of PPE. Schiller said that , hospitals building their own individual surge inventories is impractical and places an increased and unnecessary demand on the already fragile healthcare supply chain. On Saturday on Twitter President Donald Trump called for Congress to pass a big and focused COVID relief bill. Congress must now do a Covid Relief Bill. Needs Democrats support. Make it big and focused. Get it done! Agencies and Xinhua contributed to this story.