A crossroads of culture
2021/9/22 11:13
The Rybnaya Derevnya, or Fishing Village, in Kaliningrad attracts tourists with its reconstructed Germanicstyle buildings and decent restaurants.Photo by Ren QiChina Daily The former capital of East Prussia, Kaliningrad is a unique Russian enclave that is closer to Prague or Vilnius than to Moscow. Its Gothic cathedral, cobbled streets and remains of Jugendstil architecture lurking behind the Soviet era concrete slabs tell a different story. Such an unusual mixture of European and Russian culture and architecture, visible through numerous attractions, exists due to the citys history which includes the heritage of Prussia, Poland, the German Empire, the Soviet Union and modern Russia. Before that, even, for many centuries it was the German province of East Prussia, colonized in the th century by Teutonic Knights they built the city they named Konigsberg Kings Mountain, after Bohemian King Ottokar II who sponsored the conquest. By , the conquest of the Prussian lands had reached its final stage. It was during this time that the German colonists settled in the region. Over the centuries, the indigenous Baltic inhabitantsthe Old Prussiansbecame more Germanic, leaving few traces other than the regions now obsolete name. The Teutonic Order built castles to establish power and control over the surrounding lands, and Konigsberg became home to one of these defensive fortifications, surviving three sieges by the Prussian army in ,  and  and never being captured. During the Seven Years War, in January , the Russian army occupied Konigsberg. East Prussia remained part of the Russian Empire until . The end of the th century is considered to be the peak of Konigsbergs prosperity. The city sustained heavy damage during World War II after being bombed by Britains Royal Air Force in August . When World War II ended, Konigsberg and the northern part of East Prussia were transferred to the Soviet Union in accordance with the Potsdam Agreement. The whole region was renamed after one of the Bolshevik revolutionaries, Mikhail Kalinin, the first Chairman of the Presidium of the Supreme Soviet of the Soviet Union, in . While, in the s, many Sovietera city names commemorating Communist leaders were changed e.g. Leningrad reverting to Saint Petersburg, Kaliningrad retains its preglasnost nomenclature. A statue of philosopher Immanuel Kant in Kaliningrad.Photo by Ren QiChina Daily If its a fascination with political history that brings you here, visit Kaliningrad on May , whentogether with the rest of Russiait celebrates World War II victory with a massive parade along Leninsky Avenue. The region is Russias main military base in the Baltics and the home of the Baltic Fleet, and many locals hail from military families. The captivating scene, best watched from the podium of the Mother Russia statue, which commemorates the inclusion of East Prussia into the Russian Federation in , would have been hard to imagine in  when Hitler was welcomed by the city authorities with a pompous celebration held in the very same place. During Soviet times, Kaliningrad remained a closed territory for tourists due to the large number of military garrisons nearby. But still, a centuriesold German legacy shines through the outward Soviet facade. As you enter the old residential suburbs of Amalienau and Maraunenhof, asphalt gives way to cobblestones, houses become quainter, and even the trees look better groomed than in the city center. Spared by the war, these areas remain largely the same as they were at the beginning of the th century, albeit with different residents. If youve spent some time in Germany, you can easily imagine trams, shops and beer gardens populating the area. Elsewhere in the city, the partially restored old forts are reminiscent of a time when it was run by knights who formed the monastic state of the Teutonic Order and imposed Christianity and the German language on local Baltic tribes with sword and fire. The citys thcentury cathedral, which lay in ruins for  years, underwent a careful Germanfunded reconstruction. The original tomb of the citys most famous resident, philosopher Immanuel Kant, can be found at the outer northeastern corner of the cathedral. Kant is a cult figure in Kaliningradthe local university bears the philosophers name, and, here is a fascinating tidbit Kantgrad was actually a serious suggestion when, back in the s, the authorities pondered a change of the citys name. Konigsberg Cathedral is the most significant preserved building of the former city of Konigsberg.Photo by Ren QiChina Daily Another feature that gives the city a Berlinlike feel is the network of canals and footbridge locks near the cathedral. Facing the imposing gothic structure is a recent additiona collection of vaguely Hanseaticlooking buildings collectively known as the Fishing Village. This is where some of the citys best restaurants and hotels are located. In the city center, the German restaurant called, Tyotka Fischer, churns out all the German classicsa variety of sausages and the old local delicacy, Konigsberg Klopse meatballs in creamy sauce with anchovies. Portions are unashamedly German, toothat is, sufficient to feed a family of threeand there is reasonably priced trademark Fischer beer on tap. The famous Amber Museum is a mustvisit for all tourists. This art depository was inaugurated in , becoming Russias first and only Amber Museum. Located in the center of Kaliningrad on the Verkhneye Lake shore, it is housed in a fortress tower dating from the midnineteenth century. Amber is fossilized resin of ancient conifers that grew more than  million years ago on the territory south of the Scandinavian Peninsula and the adjoining part of the Baltic Sea bed. The museum presents amber samples of different weight, color and clarity. There is the biggest sunstone in Russia, weighing in at . kilograms. A considerable part of the collection includes amber specimens with the inclusion of animals and plant remains that got stuck in the viscous liquid millions of years ago. They are essential for our knowledge about the flora and fauna that lived in the region  to  million years ago. Today the collection of the Kaliningrad Amber Museum houses the main Russian national fund of Baltic amber. A tourist looks at an exhibit at the Kaliningrad Amber Museum.Photo by Ren QiChina Daily Meanwhile, the museum also has a large collection of amber adornments and household items, dating from the Neolithic age  BC to today. In the museum there are artifacts found in the region of Kaliningrad dating back to between the nd and th centuries, a time of intensive trade contact with the Roman Empire. Alexander Yuritsin, a local amber jeweler, is always happy to share with people the advantages of amber. Amber is good for your health. If you cut granite, you have to wear a protective mask and goggles. But when you work with amber, you dont have to take these precautionsit makes you sturdy, young and handsome. Like me, you see? A short trip away from Kaliningrad is Russias Baltic sea resorts. Pieces of amber lifted from the sea floor are sometimes cast by the waves onto the white sand beaches, where they can be collected by hand. Most of the raw amber, however, comes from the vast quarry just outside the town of Yantarny. Kaliningrad is one of Russias main transport hubs it has sea and river ports, an international airport and a welldeveloped network of public transport. Most bus routes are duplicated by trams, trolleybuses or minibuses. It also boasts the only port in the Baltic Sea that never freezes. In , according to a report in The Moscow Times, TripAdvisor ranked Russias Baltic exclave of Kaliningrad as the No  emerging tourism destination in the world. Five Interesting Facts about Kaliningrad . Lithuanian bookworms love it In the th century, Konigsberg became an important center of Lithuanian culture, as the first book ever printed in Lithuanian, the Catechism, was printed here. Of the  copies printed, only two have survived one is stored in the Vilnius University Library in Lithuania, and the other is in the Nicolaus Copernicus University Library in Torun, Poland. . Two towns, one name In  the city was renamed Kaliningrad. However, there was already a town of that name in the Soviet Union in the Moscow Oblast, and the duplication caused plenty of correspondence problems. Letters meant for the former Konigsberg were constantly delivered to the town close to Moscow. The problem was only resolved in , when the Kaliningrad near Moscow was renamed Korolyov. . The sun always shines Kaliningrad Oblast possesses over  percent of the worlds amber. A flawless piece of fossilized resin, otherwise known as the sunstone, amber can fetch its weight in gold. If the gemstone has an insect or lizard trapped inside, the price can reach up to sixdigits. . An old city with shallow roots The city became a part of the Soviet Union after World War II, and the Germans who survived the war were relocated. The city was then repopulated with Russians from other parts of the country. .Little Russia is a big draw Inhabitants of Kaliningrad often call the main part of the country big Russia and their exclave little Russia. Big Russia has a lot to be envious of Kaliningrad is regularly voted the most businessfriendly city in Russia, as well as the most comfortable place for living. What to see . The Museum of the World Ocean is a large museum and research center featuring boats, seaplanes, a submarine and the former expedition vessel Vityaz. Here, youll find a myriad maritime machinery, a wonderful world of underwater creatures and the equipment to observe them. . If you want to see a unique local natural phenomenon, dont miss the Dancing Forest with its unusually twisted trees. . The island of Kant, previously called the island of Kneiphof, is located in the middle of the Pregolya River. Here, theres a park with numerous stone sculptures and the islands only building, a huge Cathedral. The gothicstyle Cathedral, built in , seems more German or Polish than Russian. The Cathedrals museum complex is one of the main sights of Kaliningrad. This is where most tourists head for. Here, you can listen to the organ concerts which are held daily. . The Brandenburg Gate in Kaliningrad is the only gate in the city which continues to fulfil its main transport function. Its sometimes called the Berlin Gate. The first Brandenburg Gate in Kaliningrad appeared in . . If you want to experience the citys Soviet past, visit the Central Market located not far from the Upper Pond and Victory Square. . The Amber Museum was opened in  in the fortress tower located on the shore of the Upper Lake. The building itself is a historical and architectural treasure its tower in NeoGothic style was built in . It contains the impressive pieces of amber that are found in the Baltic Sea area. Dont forget to purchase amber jewelry for your loved ones. Part of the exhibition consists of artworks by artists from France, Latvia, Poland, Lithuania, Russia and other countries. . The Fishing Village is an ethnographic and craft center, and the most popular and interesting place in Kaliningrad. Its construction began in . The center includes restaurants and cafes, souvenir shops and jewelry shops, the river station, and sports and entertainment centers. From the Mayak Tower, you can enjoy a panoramic view over the city. . To see the German heritage of the city, visit the Amalienau district with its picturesque mansions and narrow streets. . The NeoGothic church of the Holy Family in Kaliningrad was built in . Its one of the main Catholic churches in Kaliningrad. In , the church was rebuilt from a very poor condition, and in the same year, the regional philharmonic society helped to open it. In , the church of the Holy Family was recognized as an object of cultural heritage of regional importance.