Russia reports oneday high of , new COVID cases
2020/11/15 7:29
New York Governor Andrew Cuomo exits a  Subway train in Manhattan on the first day of New York Citys phase one reopening during the outbreak of the coronavirus disease COVID in New York City, New York, US, June , .  NEW YORK  New York Governor Andrew Cuomo said on Saturday that COVID vaccines are created by drug companies, not by US president and the government, targeting President Donald Trumps latest tweet saying that the Trump Administration has produced a great and safe VACCINE far ahead of schedule. The president made some comments yesterday and was tweeting today. The president says he created the vaccine  that is not a fact. There is still something called reality and truth, the governor was quoted as saying in an official press release. The federal government did not create the vaccine. Private drug companies, pharma companies are creating the vaccines. He has created problems for the vaccine because the vaccine is only relevant if people will take it, and we want people to take it, he said. The bottom line is the president has been unhappy with New York. He was unhappy with New York the day he took office. He was unhappy that he lost New York. He was unhappy that New Yorkers criticized him. New York is home to media that criticized him, he added. Meanwhile, the governor showed his determination to earn respect and guarantee rights and interests for New York. He also confirmed that his state will set up an independent panel of experts headed by Nobel Prize winner to review the US Food and Drug Administrations FDA approval of vaccines and build confidence for New Yorkers. New York set up such a panel. Seven other states set up such a panel. We are ready now to receive the vaccine and then simultaneous with the FDA approval our panel will be looking at it. So, theres no delay. Were ready now. Send me a vaccine today, I will distribute it this afternoon, said Cuomo. UNTRUE CLAIM Vials with a sticker reading, COVID  Coronavirus vaccine  Injection only and a medical syringe are seen in front of a displayed US flag in this illustration taken October , .  On Friday, the governor refuted Trumps claim about New York States preparation for COVID vaccination, telling CNNs Situation Room that What the president says is just untrue. ... We trust the drug companies. A number of states, New York included, have set up separate scientific panels that will review the FDAs approval to give people confidence in the vaccine approval process, he asserted, adding that half the American people said they dont trust the approval process. Earlier on Friday, Trump said that a COVID vaccine would not be delivered to New York until we have authorization to do so. Cuomo doesnt trust where the vaccine is coming from. ... These are coming from the greatest companies anywhere in the world, greatest labs in the world, but he doesnt trust the fact that its this White House, this administration, Trump said during a press conference from the White House Rose Garden. Cuomo will have to let us know when hes ready for it because otherwise, we cant be delivering it to a state that wont be giving it to its people immediately, added the president. Soon after the president made the remarks above, Cuomo told MSNBCs Live with Katy Tur, Its not that people dont trust the vaccine companies, the pharmaceutical companies. ... An overwhelming percentage of Americans are worried about political interference in the vaccination process and the approval process by the president. He added, The day they distribute the vaccine, we will be ready to start the distribution. Our review of the FDA protocol will be simultaneous and concurrent with their delivery. RISING FIGURES AND MORE RESTRICTIONS ? Passengers wearing face masks during the spread of the coronavirus disease COVID, ride a bus along st Avenue in Manhattan, New York City November , .  In the past weeks, Cuomo has repeatedly criticized the federal governments COVID vaccination program, saying it relied too much on private entities and overlooked the minorities and the disadvantaged groups. In a parallel development, New York suffered from continuous rise of COVID cases statewide and New York City is even planning an overall closure of its schools for the coronavirus infection rate has been edging up to  percent. Cuomo tweeted on Saturday that the COVID test positivity rate in the focus areas under the microcluster strategy, where the pandemic has been the most severe in New York State, was . percent on Friday, up from . percent one day earlier. The statewide positivity rate excluding these focus areas was . percent, up from . percent on Thursday of the , tests reported on Friday, , were positive, or . percent of the total, up from . percent one day earlier, he added. If we all take more precautions, COVID will spread less and there will be fewer restrictions. If we all take fewer precautions, COVID will spread more and there will be more restrictions. Its that simple, said the governor in another tweet on Saturday. The state has limited indoor gatherings at private residences to  people, and any gym as well as other establishment with a state liquor license, including bars and restaurants, should close at  p.m. Both orders took effect at  p.m. Friday. As of Saturday afternoon, the Center for Systems Science and Engineering at Johns Hopkins University reported , coronavirus deaths so far in New York State, the worst in the country.