Chinese cleared to make short trips to Singapore
2020/11/14 0:00
SINGAPOREThe first batch of Chinese visitors arrived in Singapore on the evening of Nov , after Singapore granted entry to shortterm visitors from the Chinese mainland starting that day. They flew to Singapore from Shanghai by taking a fivehour flight with Juneyao Airlines and arrived at Terminal One in Changi Airport at  pm. There were  passengers onboard the HO flight. They were mainly business travelers and shortterm visitors, said Chen Qingyu, general manager of Juneyao Airlines Singapore Branch. Zhang Zheyue, , said she was happy to be among the first batch of shortterm visitors from the Chinese mainland to enter Singapore. She came from Yangzhou, East Chinas Jiangsu province. She wore a face mask and a pair of goggles on the airplane for personal protection. This was her fifth visit to Singapore. She planned to tour Universal Studios Singapore and the Singapore Zoo. Zhang said she would stay in the city for several days before flying to the United States to meet her husband who is studying there. Arriving at the airport, the passengers underwent a COVID Polymerase Chain Reaction test. If they test negative, they dont need to isolate for  days, said the Civil Aviation Authority of Singapore on Oct . The test results will be issued within  hours and typically within  hours. Chen said that Singapores eased travel restrictions demonstrated their confidence in Chinas control of the COVID outbreak. He expected the number of travelers between the Chinese mainland and Singapore would rise. Currently, there is only one flight a week linking Shanghai and Singapore from his airline. The company will monitor the situation and regulations closely to make adjustments, he said. Starting from Oct , visitors can apply for an air travel pass for entry into Singapore on or after Nov , according to CAAS. This latest move followed the earlier lifting of border restrictions for visitors from Australia excluding the State of Victoria, Brunei, New Zealand and Vietnam. Since  pm on March , Singapore banned the entry and transit of all shortterm visitors in an attempt to contain the spread of COVID. According to statistics from the Singapore Tourism Board, . million visitors from the Chinese mainland visited Singapore in , which is the largest number of foreign visitors Singapore received last year. Xinhua ? Cable car carriages move between Mount Faber and Sentosa Island in Singapore on Nov . ROSLAN RAHMANAFP ? ?