Loosening the knot
2020/11/13 18:00
COVID has forced many couples in Hong Kong to scrap or put off their nuptials on safety concerns. While the citys wedding industry is at low ebb, that on the mainland is flourishing as the pandemic eases. Edith Lu reports from Hong Kong. If superstition  long entrenched in a Chinese community like Hong Kong  is to be religiously adhered to,  is supposed to be an auspicious year for couples intending to tie the knot. It has a leap month and a double spring with two days marking the start of spring. October was supposed to be the cherry on top and most soughtafter wedding month of the year, with three zeroes  symbolizing perfection and satisfaction. However, it turned out not to be the case. Dark clouds continue to hover nearly a year after COVID unleashed its fury, battering businesses and shattering dreams. Couples in Hong Kong have been forced to cancel, scale down or put their marriages on the back burner after news broke in March that wedding parties emerged as fertile ground for the transmission of the coronavirus. According to the Immigration Department, the number of marriage registrations plunged by  percent to , in the first eight months, from , during the same period in . Extra expenses Pency Pun, who planned to walk down the aisle in March, has put her wedding on ice and has yet to set a new date, saying everything remains uncertain. The special administrative region government decided in late March to restrict the number of guests at wedding ceremonies to  after four people who attended a banquet came down with the virus. The curbs were relaxed in May, but they were tightened again two months later, as Hong Kong implemented its toughest socialdistancing measures after the third wave of COVID infections struck. Weve been checking the latest socialdistancing measures every week to see if we can proceed, but its like waiting to win a lottery, laments Pun. Many other engaged couples face the same dilemma. Nearly  couples submitted a petition to the government in early October, demanding that the limit on the number of people attending wedding receptions be eased. A slight relief came on Oct , when the authorities allowed a maximum of  people to join a wedding ceremony as local infection cases dwindled, but food and drinks are still barred. Pun estimates she would have to pay  percent more if she were to reschedule her wedding, as she would have to forfeit handling fees on some nonrefundable items. Besides, due to the limited number of guests allowed, shell need to pay another HK, , if she wants to livestream the event for those who cant attend. According to online lifestyle platform ESDlife, Hong Kongs wedding market was worth HK. billion last year. The average cost of tying the knot was HK,  a slight rise of  percent yearonyear. The expenses covered a banquet, the brides ring and jewelry, honeymoon, photography and wedding gowns. A banquet would normally take up the lions share of the expenses  an average of HK,, half of the entire bill. Couples can save money as food and drinks are prohibited at ceremonies. But total wedding expenses this year are not much different from last years, said Casey Chow, senior marketing manager at ESDlife. Since most couples have to arrange their registration and the banquet on different dates, they may have to book wedding gowns, photography and makeup services twice, which would mean higher costs, explained Chow. Moreover, they have to pay extra for face masks and disinfectants for guests. Vivi Li, , who works at a brokerage, had her marriage registered last month, with only  guests attending. Her entire bill came up to HK,, more than twothirds of which went to jewelry. After a trek on the romance path, wedding couples dont mind spending a big sum on jewelry to show their affection for each other and seal the bond in their relationship, said Liu Zhenzhen, director of global corporate marketing at Platinum Guild International, a marketing organization for platinum jewelry. Travel restrictions have forced some couples to cancel their honeymoon and spend on jewelry. Others have scaled down their wedding ceremonies and would spend more on bridal jewelry, said Liu. The same is true for couples north of the border. According to a consumer survey by PGI, about  percent of respondents on the Chinese mainland were willing to spend the same amount of money or even more on jewelry amid the pandemic. More than  percent of consumers said theyre willing to spend the same or more on jewelry after the health crisis. Data from Meituan Dianping  the mainlands largest ondemand services provider by number of users  shows that orders for wedding jewelry during the eightday National Day and MidAutumn Festival holidays in October soared by  percent over the same period last year. Rebound on mainland With the coronavirus effectively under control on the mainland, large wedding gatherings have been allowed. The wedding industry rebounded during the golden week, which is traditionally a peak wedding season. Wedding services provider Hunliji said more than , couples held wedding ceremonies during the golden week public holidays  up . percent from the same period last year. A resident in Guizhou province went viral after he said he attended  weddings and spent a months salary on gifts, plus other expenses. Rising demand has pushed up the costs for a wedding ceremony. As some small wedding planning companies and hotels have closed down, couples have to book everything earlier at higher prices. Popular wedding venues like hotels with outdoor lawns need to be booked  to  months in advance, while those in Beijings Chaoyang district are said to have been fully booked until June next year. Photographers and makeup artists are also in demand. A wedding makeup artist reportedly made , yuan , from  weddings during the golden week holidays. The wedding industry has placed its hopes on the yearend festive season to recoup the losses for the whole year, and for a full recovery in . A promotional event for platinum jewelry gets under way in a shopping mall in Huizhou, Guangdong province, in November . Photo provided to China Daily ?