Jewelers seeing a bit of a sparkle on mainland
2020/11/13 11:30
Masked pedestrians walk past a jewelry store in Hong Kong. Photos provided to China Daily Waves of jewelry store closures tell the story The jewelry business has been among the hardest hit in the coronavirus pandemic. But it may be seeing light at the end of the tunnel with a staggered recovery in the wake of the Chinese mainlands peak wedding season in early October. World demand for jewelry in the first half plunged  percent to  tons compared with the same period a year ago, with markets in lockdown and consumers deterred by soaring gold prices and a squeeze on disposable income, according to the World Gold Council. The price of gold climbed  percent in US dollar terms in the first six months, hitting record highs, among other currencies. The high prices were lifted by record flows of  tons into goldbacked exchangetraded funds as global central banks and governments cut rates to inject massive liquidity. Platinum recovery Demand for jewelry on the mainland also faltered, according to the National Bureau of Statistics. Jewelry retail sales slumped  percent yearonyear between January and July to  billion yuan . billion. But sales in July rose . percent to . billion yuan. Data provider iiMedia Research said the mainlands jewelry market is on the mend with the easing of socialdistancing restrictions and a booming wedding market. Policies spurring consumption are also likely to accelerate the recovery. Platinum prices are at a favorable level compared to gold this year, contributing to a faster recovery in the platinum jewelry market. Other key factors include improved consumer demand, said Liu Zhenzhen, director of global corporate marketing at Platinum Guild International  a marketing organization for platinum jewelry. The mainlands platinum jewelry market has been recovering since April, with demand picking up in both the manufacturing and retail sectors. With plain gold and gemset jewelry currently overstocked, platinum jewelry manufacturers have seen an increase in orders for replenishment of plain platinum jewelry. Weve seen  percent yearonyear growth in platinum jewelry fabrication in the second quarter, and a  percent rise in PGI retail partners sales during the same period on the mainland. The momentum continued to be stronger in September and during the October National Day holidays, said Liu. Hybrid marketing Liu said platinum jewelry prices are attractive compared to gold prices, and some retail and manufacturing partners are refocusing on platinum jewelry. The publichealth crisis has forced industries like the jewelry business, which relies mainly on physical retail sales, to review their investments with a more advanced digital strategy. But Liu believes brickandmortar stores are still important as most consumers on the mainland still prefer to shop at stores, especially for wedding jewelry. Wedding jewelry is different from fashion jewelry. Consumers want to touch, wear and feel it before making purchases. And all these are not available online, she said. Now, it is important for retailers to have an omnichannel strategy to better engage with consumers. Most jewelry brands are now trying to strike a balance between physical and digital sales. Chow Tai Fook Jewelry Group, one of Hong Kongs biggest jewelry retail chains, said it will continue its market expansion through the franchise model when the pandemic situation stabilizes and focus on onlineoffline channel integration to take advantage of the digital trend.