Transportation boost puts region on road to riches
2021/9/22 10:57
Here are some of the most striking images taken from around the world over the past week. A man runs along a road with cherry blossoms in Christchurch, New Zealand, on Sept , .  Afghan girls attend a class at a local school in MazariSharif, capital of Balkh province, Afghanistan, Sept , .  Volkan Bozkir right, president of the th session of the United Nations General Assembly UNGA, hands over the gavel to Abdulla Shahid, president of the th UNGA session, during the th and closing meeting of the th UNGA session at the UN headquarters in New York, Sept , . The UNGA on Tuesday opened its th session.  Photo taken on Sept , , shows the wrapped Arc de Triomphe in Paris, France. The entire Arc de Triomphe at the top of the ChampsElysees in Paris will stay wrapped in fabric for two weeks for an art installation conceived by the late artist Christo and inaugurated on Thursday by French President Emmanuel Macron. The meter high, meter long and meter wide monument built by Napoleon, is now wrapped headtotoe in , square meters of recyclable silveryblue fabric and , meters of red rope.  A staff member of the Austrian Post shows an envelope with a Mini FFP mask special stamp in Vienna, Austria, on Sept , . The Austrian Post issued a Mini FFP mask special stamp on Thursday, aimed at reminding people about using FFP masks to help protect against infection.  French tightrope walker Nathan Paulin performs on a meterhigh slackline spanning  meters between the Eiffel Tower and the Theater National de Chaillot in Paris, France, on Sept , .  A man sits beside white flags placed on the National Mall to honor the lives lost to COVID in Washington, DC, the United States, Sept , . The United States has kept on pushing through federal requirements of broad vaccination by highlighting the efficacy of its three authorized COVID vaccines, while planning to narrow the use of a booster shot only to elderly people and those who work in highrisk environments.  Planes of the Chilean Air Force take part in an annual military parade to celebrate the Day of the Glories of the Army at the OHiggins park, in Santiago, Chile, on Sept , .  Photo taken Sept , , shows the moon rising in San Francisco, the United States.  People ride bikes on Car Free Sunday in Brussels, Belgium, Sept , . The Car Free Sunday is valid for the public, except taxis, journey buses, emergency services, police and people with a special permit. The whole Brussels region is closed for traffic from  am till  pm. 