Confidence growing over Tokyo Games
2020/11/13 9:24
? Passersby wearing protective face masks walk in front of a souvenir shop, amid the coronavirus disease COVID outbreak, in Tokyo, Japan September , .  TOKYO  Japan on Thursday confirmed a record , daily new COVID infections owing to a resurgence of cases nationwide as the temperature continues to drop and more people stay indoors. The latest figure surpasses the previous nationwide record of , confirmed on Aug. . Japans cumulative total of COVID infections stood at ,, not including those connected to a cruise ship that was quarantined near Tokyo early this year. The Tokyo metropolitan government, meanwhile, reported  new daily coronavirus cases in the city of  million, with the caseload rising to , infections, the highest among Japans  prefectures. The daily tally in the capital has topped  for the first time since Aug.  and surpassed the mark for the second straight day, the metropolitan governments figures showed. Tokyos highest daily infection figure of  was reported on Aug. . Tokyo metropolitan government and experts on public health and infectious diseases held a meeting earlier in the day to discuss the resurgence of cases. In a warning, the experts explained that the daily average of newly confirmed cases was  during the seven days through Wednesday, marking a sharp increase from the daily average of  in the previous week. If the rise continues unchecked, the situation would turn extremely serious within a month. Tokyo Governor Yuriko Koike told a press briefing that people need to pay special attention to antiinfection measures, describing the current situation as being at a critical juncture. She reiterated her calls for people to continue to regularly wash their hands, wear masks, avoid closed, crowded and closecontact settings. She also said people should make sure that rooms are well ventilated and people make sure to disinfect hard surfaces at home and work such as tables and doorknobs. Yasutoshi Nishimura, the minister in charge of the response to the coronavirus, meanwhile, said Japan may review its policy on capping the number of people attending large events. Large crowds are currently limited to  percent of a venues capacity. The cap, it was decided at the meeting, will be extended to the end of February after an initial deadline set on Nov. . We may review the policy to restrict the number of participants at events if the virus spreads further, Nishimura said of the matter. Japans northernmost prefecture of Hokkaido has seen a spike in COVID cases and clusters recently, as more people are staying indoors in poorlyventilated rooms as the temperature drops with winter approaching. Hokkaido reported a new daily record of  COVID cases on Thursday, with the number of positive cases topping the mark for the eighth straight day. Hokkaidos cumulative tally stood at , cases, according to the latest figures Thursday evening. The nationwide death toll from the pneumoniacausing virus has risen to a total of , people, the figures showed.