Carrying forward the Shanghai Spirit and deepening solidarity and collaboration for a stronger community with a shared future
2020/11/13 8:53
Athletes wearing protective masks amid the coronavirus disease COVID outbreak take part in the opening ceremony of Friendship and Solidarity Competition, the first international event at a Tokyo Olympic venue since the Games were postponed in March due to the COVID pandemic, in Tokyo, Japan Nov , .  Buoyed by last weeks test event involving Chinese gymnasts in Tokyo, the International Olympic Committee has reiterated its confidence in staging a safe Olympic Games in Japan next summer. With the pandemic still ravaging the world, IOC president Thomas Bach remains bullish on the feasibility of the Games and believes improvements in virusprevention protocols even bode well for the chances of spectators being allowed to attend. During a teleconference following an IOC executive board meeting on Wednesday, Bach said a recent gymnastics meet in Tokyo has proved that, with proper countermeasures in place, competitions can be held safely with fans on site. A perfect , Bach rated the meet. Its very symbolic in different ways. First of all, Tokyo and Japan have demonstrated that you can organize international events even under the current conditions. Having now seen the different test events in Japan, I think we can become more and more confident that we will have a reasonable number of spectators then also in the Olympic venues. How many and under which conditions, again, depends very much on future developments. The event Bach cited was Sundays Friendships and Solidarity Competition, a oneday invitational meet involving around  gymnasts from China, the United States, Russia and the host. It was the first international sporting event to be staged in Japan since the outbreak of the virus. After arriving at Narita Airport in full protective gear, including masks and goggles, the Chinese gymnasts made headlines in Japanese media for adopting extreme vigilance against the virus as part of the events recommended COVID protocols. Around , spectators were allowed in to watch the action in the ,seat Yoyogi National Stadium, but all were required to wear masks, sanitize their hands regularly, have their body temperature checked and keep socially distanced. Encouraged not to shout support to avoid spreading droplets, the fans instead reacted with polite applause. Miu Zhongyi, team manager and president of the Chinese Gymnastics Association, said the health and safety measures were reassuring. We know that the host has made huge efforts in organizing this tournament. We understand all these countermeasures. We are very thankful for the job they did and we also tried our best to cooperate, Miu told Xinhua. The IOC stressed that all parties are working together to ensure the Games will be delivered safely. Our clear commitment is to make participation possible for all the  NOCs national Olympic committees and for the IOC refugee Olympic team, said Bach. To make that happen, the IOC is teaming up with local organizers, the Japanese government, health experts and pharmaceutical companies to develop a toolbox of COVID countermeasures. Bach said he is hopeful fans from Japan, and possibly even from overseas, might be able to attend the Games. In nine months from now, we can be sure, given the latest development with regard to vaccination and rapid testing, that we will have better tools in the box than the organizing committee has now. This is giving a lot of confidence, he said. According to Kyodo News, Japan reported , new COVID cases on Wednesday, close to the singleday record of , logged on Aug , and prompting authorities to consider imposing more stringent steps to curb the virus. Tokyo confirmed  cases, topping the  mark for the first time since Aug , bringing its cumulative total to ,, the highest by far among the countrys  prefectures, according to the report. In March, the IOC and Japanese organizers announced the postponement of the Games, which were supposed to open in July, for a year, and suspended the Olympic qualification system, with  percent of places allocated. Sports federations are looking to reactivate the qualification process next spring to allocate the remaining spots, with fairness a top priority, according to Bach. Traveling by charter flight, Bach will on Sunday begin a fourday inspection trip to Tokyo, where he will visit the Olympic village and major stadiums, as well as meet athletes.