Virus rages in most US states
2020/11/13 0:49
FILE PHOTO A view shows the entrance to the emergency room of Avera St. Lukes Hospital as the coronavirus disease COVID outbreak continues in Aberdeen, South Dakota, US, October , .  The COVID pandemic is raging across the United States, setting daily caseload records, straining medical facilities and forcing some governors to impose new or tighter restrictions, including mandatory maskwearing. Coronavirus infections are rising in  states, while  states are setting weekly case records, according to data from Johns Hopkins University. On Tuesday, the country hit another oneday record  more than , new cases, along with more than , additional deaths. COVID hospitalizations hit an alltime high of ,. Daily caseloads on Tuesday hit record levels in Illinois, Ohio, Colorado, Montana and Wyoming, according to Johns Hopkins. One in  Americans has tested positive for the virus in the last week. The US surpassed  million known cases on Sunday, more than any other country. The raging pandemic is making some governors reintroduce restrictions or impose new ones. In New York City, officials are trying to contain an outbreak in the borough of Staten Island and bracing for a second wave of cases citywide. New York Governor Andrew Cuomo on Wednesday declared most of the borough a yellow zone, limiting outdoor and private indoor gatherings and capping attendance at places of worship. Cuomo also announced that bars, restaurants and gyms across the state must close at  pm starting Friday and that private residential gatherings shouldnt exceed  people. He said contact tracers identified bars and restaurants, indoor gatherings and gyms as helping drive the virus spread. Neighboring New Jersey is experiencing a spike in coronavirus cases statewide not seen since June. In Newark, the states largest city, over the last four days there have been  new cases, and  percent of people tested over three days last week were found to have the virus, city and county officials said. On Tuesday, statewide there were , new cases reported, a figure the governor called devastating. On Wednesday, , additional cases were recorded. Hospitals reported  coronavirus deaths. Minnesota Democratic Governor Tim Walz announced Tuesday that by weeks end, bars and restaurants must stop serving at  pm. He also put new caps on weddings, funerals and other social gatherings. Utahs outgoing governor, Republican Gary Herbert, has declared a state of emergency aimed at easing hospital overcrowding and quelling the spike in infections. The move includes a statewide mask mandate and a householdonly requirement on social gatherings for two weeks. We cannot afford to debate this issue any longer, Herbert said in a video posted to Twitter. Individual freedom is certainly important, and it is our rule of law that protects that freedom. Texas became the first state in the country to surpass  million cases, according to Johns Hopkins University. It identified ,, coronavirus cases as of Wednesday, with a death toll of ,. Slightly more than , people are hospitalized due to COVID. In El Paso, Texas, according to CNN, County Judge Ricardo Samaniego on Tuesday requested four additional mobile morgues to handle the deceased in addition to the six already in operation. Samaniego, who issued a twoweek curfew order for the city of , on Oct , predicted as many as  deaths a day for the next two weeks. As of Tuesday, total active cases reached ,. The number of hospitalized patients increased by  to , the number of patients in ICU units has increased by , while the death toll rose by  to . The University Medical Center, a teaching hospital in El Paso, set up tents in a parking lot to care for patients. A downtown convention center became a field hospital, and the state began airlifting dozens of intensive care patients to other cities to free up more space. In Oklahoma, hospital officials said they have hired hundreds of additional nurses on a contract basis. Hospital executives in several states say that a shortage of nurses and other medical personnel is limiting their ability to add more hospital beds to care for patients. Everywhere is either hard hit or is watching their COVID numbers go up and are expecting to get a lot of flu patients, said Nancy Foster, a vicepresident of the American Hospital Association. The ability of health care professionals to pick up and leave their hometowns is very limited. In Wisconsin, now among the hardesthit states, a major health care provider, Aurora Health Care, announced it would pause testing sites in some cities and focus on bedside care. Hospitalizations in the greater Milwaukee area have increased fivefold in the past two months. Dr Ashish K. Jha, dean of the Brown University School of Public Health, said that the Trump administration had basically thrown in the towel on trying to control the pandemic, while Democrat Joe Biden and his team have nothing to wield but moral power and social power as the former vicepresident prepares to move into the White House on Jan . Without significant action, he said, the idea that we have another , deaths by Inauguration Day would be a conservative estimate.