Liuzhou focuses on improving its impressive industrial tourism
2020/11/12 15:42
Workers sort out packages in a logistics park at Longli county, southwestern Guizhou province, on Nov , .  Chinas consumer market recovery is accelerating, with transactions on major shopping platforms breaking records during the day Double  shopping festival period this year. Online shopping platforms have sped up integration with offline stores. This not only creates a better shopping experience for consumers, but also stimulates greater potential for the consumer market during the shopping festival period, Peoples Daily said. From Nov  to Nov , Tmall and JD reported total sales revenue of . billion yuan . billion and order value of . billion yuan, respectively. Suning announced its online order volume surged  percent yearonyear during the period, and in the first hour of Nov , the sales of top beauty and makeup brands increased . times compared to a year earlier. Sales of gold and jewelry, sportswear, health and nutrition products, and G smartphones jumped ., ., . and  times, respectively. Intime, a traditional retail department store company, held nearly  offline shopping events to provide quality consumption experience to customers, with , sellers participating in more than , livestreaming sessions during the period according to Peoples Daily. In addition, from Nov  to  the companys  cloud stores sales increased . times from the same period last year. With logistics and distribution infrastructures improving, people in rural areas also joined the Double  event to buy more highquality industrial products. According to Tmall, the order volume of micro diggers increased  percent yearonyear, and transaction volume grew  percent yearonyear. This year, the sales of upgraded goods, service consumption and imported produce saw rapid growth. Auto sales also set a new record this year, with more than  million people looking at cars on Tmall to conclude over , orders from Nov  to . Medical and health items have become a new hot spot. Masks, thermometers, flu vaccines and online medical consultations have become the most indemand healthcare items at JD this year. Middle and highend shortdistance vacations have been warmly received by the market. The customertomanufacturer model was used by manufacturers to realize customization based on online customer demand data, technology, and ideas. The model helped manufacturers to promote innovation, reduce costs and strengthen areas of weakness during the shopping festival period. According to JD, the sales of customized products through the CM model increased . times compared to a year earlier. This year, a total of . million merchants and , factories in China participated in the CM process to take advantage of cost reductions and efficiency increases brought by digital transformation. The more merchants are accelerating digital transformation to improve the consumption experience during the Double  event, the greater the momentum for the consumer market to continue its improvement.