Photographer takes the birdseye view
2021/9/22 0:00
The China International Import Expo has become a magnet for global business as more overseas enterprises and organizations expect stronger development in the market through longterm participation. A total of  enterprises signed participation agreements with the CIIE Bureau on Sept  for the fifth edition of the expo in . On July , the day countdown to the fourth CIIE,  companies signed agreements or memorandums of understanding on taking part this year. Six enterprises and organizations, from home and abroad, signed longterm partnership agreements with the CIIE Bureau. According to these enterprises, the annual CIIE is of great significance for them to better reach clients, expand market channels and identify potential investment opportunities as well as boost innovation. US commercial real estate services and investment firm CBRE has confirmed its participation for the fifth CIIE. The agreement strengthens the companys ties with the CIIE. It also represents its confidence and determination in the Chinese market, said Eric Xiao, senior director and head of marketing and communications at CBRE North Asia. At the third CIIE last year, CBRE launched its strategy urban service solution, which has since received good feedback nationwide. Its city development solutions and technological innovation have been applied in many fields. These include regional industry development, integrated development of the Yangtze River Delta as well as transport network construction, according to Xiao. At this years CIIE, CBRE will launch its digital smart platform in Asia, highlight its lifelong real estate green service and show futureoriented commercial solutions. With the spillover effect of the third CIIE, CBRE will further cooperate with government departments and major customers to better serve the countrys major development issues, such as industrial upgrading, new urbanization and carbon neutrality, Xiao said. South Korean cosmetics group Amore Pacific also reaffirmed its longterm commitment to the Chinese market. The CIIE is an important platform for us to test Chinas market with new brands and products, said Gao Xin, general manager of marketing at Amore Pacific China. At the CIIE, we can obtain more understanding of the market and gain consumer feedback at a quicker pace. This helps us to adjust our product strategy and better target the market, Gao said. Since its event debut in , Amore Pacific has expanded its exhibition area from  square meters to  sq m. With the bigger area, the company will introduce more innovative products, experience and service to the CIIE. Over the past three sessions, the company has brought first and secondgeneration D printed masks, customized twocolor lipstick, its Smart Mirror and other new intelligent technology and personalized products and services. According to Gao, at this years expo, the company will display its achievements in the fields of product research and development, digital experience and sustainable development. This year, we will bring Chinese consumers more innovative products. Digital and immersive interactive experiences will also be given onsite, Gao said. Representatives of various enterprises sign participation agreements with the China International Import Expo Bureau on Sept  for the  CIIE. CHINA DAILY