Benchmark friendship
2020/11/12 8:01
CHEN JIAYAOFOR CHINA DAILY The world is undergoing profound changes in the international situation and COVID pandemic unseen in a century, calling for international unity and cooperation. China and South Africa have joined hands in the fight against the pandemic in accordance with the important consensus reached by the two heads of state. After the COVID outbreak, President Xi Jinping and his South African counterpart Cyril Ramaphosa sent letters and made calls to each other, and jointly initiated the Extraordinary ChinaAfrica Summit on Solidarity against COVID. During the toughest time of Chinas fight against the virus, South Africa provided valuable moral and material support, and many enterprises there have made generous donations to China. In return, the Chinese side donated millions of South African rand, more than  million masks and hundreds of thousands of detection reagents, as well as ventilators, protective suits and other antipandemic materials, and shared its prevention and control experience with the country. Unity and cooperation are the most powerful weapons against the virus. Both China and South Africa firmly uphold multilateralism and support the World Health Organization playing the leading role in coordinating the global antipandemic efforts and mobilizing the international community to strengthen unity and cooperation in the war against the virus. During the highlevel meeting in commemoration of the th anniversary of the founding of the United Nations, as well as the rd World Health Assembly, the G Extraordinary Virtual Leaders Summit on COVID and the Extraordinary ChinaAfrica Summit on Solidarity Against COVID, both China and South Africa advocated safeguarding multilateralism to oppose unilateralism and protectionism, and both called for the UN to play the core role in defending international equity and justice. Despite the impact of the pandemic, the pragmatic cooperation and bilateral trade between China and South Africa have demonstrated remarkable resilience and strong momentum. South Africas exports to China increased more than  percent yearonyear in the second quarter of this year, and China has remained South Africas largest trading partner for  consecutive years. Digital economic cooperation between the two countries has achieved gratifying results. Rain, South Africas mobile dataonly network operator, has launched its first G commercial network and set up a G laboratory in South Africa in partnership with Chinese IT giant Huawei. At present, both China and South Africa face the daunting tasks of countering the pandemic, stabilizing their economies and improving peoples livelihoods. The Fifth Plenary Session of the th Central Committee of the Communist Party of China held in Beijing on Oct  outlined the socioeconomic development goals of the th FiveYear Plan  and longterm objectives through the year . South Africa also recently rolled out its economic reconstruction and recovery plan. The two countries will continue to strengthen unity and antipandemic cooperation, synergize their development strategies and plans, deepen practical cooperation in various fields, and constantly push the ChinaSouth Africa comprehensive strategic partnership to a new level. China and South Africa will continue their joint fight against the COVID pandemic. Chinas participation in the WHOled COVAX alliance is the countrys concrete commitment to the equitable distribution of its COVID vaccines. Meanwhile, China will also provide a new batch of needed materials such as nucleic acid extraction reagents to South Africa, and explore strengthening cooperation in vaccine research and development. The two countries will give a strong boost to their economic cooperation. China is accelerating the pace in forming a new dual circulation development pattern, with domestic and international circulation reinforcing each other. This will offer new opportunities for cooperation between China and South Africa. As South African President Ramaphosa said in his video address to this years China International Import Expo, Chinese enterprises and investors will discover the potential of South Africa and his country can provide a variety of high valueadded products and services. China and South Africa will strengthen crossborder ecommerce cooperation and support South Africa to further expand exports of superior and highquality agricultural products to China. China will mobilize more influential enterprises to participate in the third South Africa Investment Conference, so as to better support the postpandemic economic recovery of South Africa. The two countries will create new highlights of digital cooperation. Chinas th FiveYear Plan puts forward that the country should regard innovation as a strategic support for national development, and speed up efforts to build itself into a scientific and technological powerhouse. The two countries will highlight their cooperation in the digital economy, G, big data, artificial intelligence and clean and renewable energy technologies, jointly carry out the ChinaSouth Africa science and technology park projects, promote the construction of crossborder incubators, and conduct indepth research, technical training and antipandemic cooperation with the help of science and technology. China and South Africa will lift international cooperation to new heights. The two sides are both emerging markets and key developing economies in the world. They hold the same or similar views on development, security and the international order, and have broad consensus on major international and regional issues. A group of virtual meetings such as the BRICS leaders meeting and the G Leaders Summit in Riyadh  will be held soon. Guided by the important consensus of these summits, China and South Africa will continue to strengthen communication and coordination under the framework of the UN, G, BRICS and the Forum on ChinaAfrica Cooperation, defend multilateralism, resolutely safeguard the international system with the UN at the core, maintain the international order underpinned by international law and the World Trade Organizationcentered multilateral trade regime, promote the reform of the global governance system, and jointly safeguard the interests of developing countries. The friendship between China and South Africa has been strengthened through trials and hardships. The unprecedented pandemic has highlighted their solidarity and shared destiny. The two countries will conquer the pandemic eventually with concerted efforts, usher in broader prospects for ChinaSouth Africa ties, and deliver more benefits of their friendly cooperation to better benefit the people of the two countries and the world. The author is the Chinese ambassador to South Africa. The author contributed this article to China Watch, a think tank powered by China Daily. The views do not necessarily reflect those of China Daily.