China and US a study in contrast in healthcare
2020/11/12 7:24
 With more than . million infections and nearly , deaths, the worlds biggest economy appears to be the feeblest healthwise. China, by contrast, has witnessed , deathsand become the first major economy to recover from the COVID pandemic. In fact, there was never a panChina novel coronavirus outbreakmost of the infections were contained within Hubei province, which accounted for  percent of the deaths in China. In the United States, however, the disease has spread to all the  stateswith not a single state having a death toll in single digit. In comparison, the pandemic has been largely controlled in China. There have been more COVID deaths just in Bronx, New York City, than in the whole of China. With less than a quarter of Chinas population and a higher GDP, the US death toll is  times higher than Chinas, total cases  times higher, and deaths per million  times higher. Why this stark difference? The key differentiator iswhich government cares more about its people, plain and simple. Saving peoples lives from COVID is a top priority for the Chinese government. For the US administration, on the other hand, the economy or politics comes first. Ironically, the Chinese economy, having bounced back, has been performing much better than the US economy. Which can be attributed to the socialist character of Chinas economic and political system. Whole industries were mobilized to put the nations needs first. For example, before the pandemic, China produced  million face masks per dayabout half of the worlds total. That increased to  million per day by the end of February, and  million per day by the end of March. In Wuhan, Hubei province, two makeshift hospitals were built in  days, whereas in the US, nurses were forced to use garbage bags as personal protective equipment. In China, producers and retailers of face masks were warned against raising prices. In the US, senators sold stocks after receiving classified novel coronavirus briefings, allegedly to prevent losses from the inevitable decline in stock prices. The Chinese government bestowed the highest civilian award, the Order of the Republic, to the countrys leading epidemiologist Dr Zhong Nanshan. The US administration, especially the president, condemned the countrys top epidemiologist Dr Anthony Fauci, with some people even issuing death threats to the doctor. Soon after the pandemic broke out, China realized that strict local lockdownscombined with widespread testing and contact tracingwas the most effective way of combating the disease. The US, by contrast, put its economy first, flippantly dismissing the idea of a countrywide lockdown. The US initial Pavlovian reaction was to blame China and stoke Sinophobia, hoping to distract the publics attention from the administrations incompetence perhaps also hoping that calling the novel coronavirus the China virus repeatedly would make the virus go away. And many US media outlets helped craft and spread this Sinophobia narrative. The second tactic the US used was to downplay the virus itself. Some US politicians still view the pandemic through their tainted, antiChina lens. One reason much of the West did not take the disease seriously in the beginning could be Orientalism, the belief that such diseases only affects those other people, and cannot possibly infect enlightened people in the West. The stunning realization that the virus knows no race or boundary came as a rude shock to many in the West. No wonder the same people who criticized Chinas lockdown and other strict antipandemic measures later censured their own governments for not implementing strict measures early or fast enough. Nearly , American lives have been sacrificed at the altar of an advanced but elitist and faulty healthcare system and a politicized, antiscience response to the pandemic. No one knows how many more lives will be lost by the time the virus is contained. But one thing is clear In the US, the talk of caring about peoples lives and wellbeing is just paying lip service. In China, it is real. The author is an Indian freelance commentator on global issues. The views dont necessarily reflect those of China Daily.