Nandan receives national reward for stabilizing employment
2020/11/11 15:40
Due to its intensive efforts in implementing policies and measures to encourage and support employment and entrepreneurship, the human resource and social security department of Nandan county, Hechi was awarded by the investigation and supervision team of the State Council Leading Group Office of Poverty Alleviation and Development with  million yuan ,. in employment fund subsidies. The Nandan human resources and social security department has set up special working groups to encourage villagers to work outside of the county. It has spent , yuan to organize chartered vehicles to transport a total of  groups, consisting of  migrant workers, to employment opportunities, of which  workers were from impoverished households. A onetime employment subsidy for enterprises providing COVID epidemic prevention and control materials, as well as business and trade distribution services have been issued, with a standard of , yuan per person. Subsidies of , yuan have been granted to the employment poverty alleviation workshops that resumed work and production before March , as well as those that employed impoverished workers before June . Moreover, , masks were issued to  companies that resumed work and production. In addition, a phased relief policy was implemented to help reduce or exempt enterprises from social security fees, saving them . million yuan. The county has increased the employment subsidy for the impoverished families in poverty alleviation workshops from , yuan per person per year to , yuan. It has currently built  poverty alleviation workshops, which have employed , people, of which  are registered as impoverished. The county has also developed  poverty alleviation public welfare jobs, as well as launched online recruitment activities to promote employment and helped more than , people reach employment intention agreements. It has issued an entrepreneurial loan of . million yuan, and carried out  employment skills training courses for , people, of which , were impoverished. The county has a total of , households with , impoverished people, including , laborers. At present, , people have found employment, marking that basically more than one person per household has found employment. As of the end of October this year, , people in , povertystricken households have found jobs outside the county, a yearonyear increase of . percent.