Why USChina relations will improve under Bidens presidency
2020/11/11 13:56
Joe Biden takes his face mask off as he arrives to speak one day after Americans voted in the presidential election in Wilmington, Delaware on Nov , .  The USChina relationship is so low under Donald Trumps administration that only a complete diplomatic breakdown or war can sink it any lower. Since neither is on the cards for reasons such as avoiding a nuclear holocaust, the worlds most important and complicated relationship has no place to go but up. Jokes aside though, Joe Biden will likely reset relations with China because the US needs China to rejuvenate the economy, address global issues such as climate change, curb the surge of COVID and a host of other issues. However, some analysts disagree with the speculation because Biden sounded just as hard on China as Trump on the campaign trail. But that was mostly for the domestic audience, as over  percent of Americans viewed China negatively, and a horde of antiChina groups was waiting to seize an opportunity to brand Biden as soft on China. Trump exploited the antiChina sentiment, resulting in his winning the  election. The success of playing the bash China card in US elections forced Biden to be just as hard on China as Trump he must be seen as protecting US interests and jobs to win the presidency. However, if one were to examine Bidens record as a senator and vice president, he appeared to understand ecogeopolitical realities. For example, Biden probably had a hand in resetting the USRussia relationship following the RussiaGeorgia conflict in , well aware that working with Russia is better than treating it as an enemy. That policy paid off, culminating in the signing of the New Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty and other cooperative agreements, resulting in a prolonged period of global security. Therefore, it would not be a surprise if Biden will reset the USChina relationship. Chinas cooperation is needed to fulfill his campaign pledges of boosting economic growth, reducing climate change and making the world a better place. Biden should at least reduce tensions with China because that would improve resource allocation efficiency, cut spending on defense and allot more for education, healthcare, infrastructure repair, job creation and other socioeconomic enhancing programs. The Chinese and US economies are deeply entwined, making it extremely costly and difficult to decouple. It was Chinas efficient infrastructure, comprehensive supply chain and skilled labor that made it possible for US enterprises to increase productivity and competitiveness in the global market. Chinas increasingly affluent population of . billion has the financial power to buy significant quantities of products US companies produce. If there is any doubt about the claim, just ask Boeing, General Motors and other US Fortune  companies. It would be difficult to see how the US economy could rebound without the Chinese market. On climate change, Biden vowed to rejoin the Paris Agreement and work with major nations to reduce greenhouse gas emission, effectively opening the door for USChina cooperation. The US and China, being the worlds two biggest polluters and possessing the most advanced technologies in combating climate change, should work with each other. Their joint efforts could lower the global temperature because they have the resources to do it. On ecogeopolitics and world security, the US and China must be on the same page because both are nuclear powers as well as the worlds largest economies and trading nations. As Trumps divisive policies on the issues had shown, fighting China exacerbated the COVID pandemic, climate change, disrupted international trade and investment, as well as other problems. China has never shown any indication of threatening any nation, let alone the worlds most powerful military and biggest economy. The antiChina crowd invented the China threat to advance their own interests and those of their financial backers. Making China the enemy culminated in sustaining, if not enlarging, the US defense budget to over  billion and raked in weapons sales to nearly  billion in . Biden seems to have realized as exemplified in his saying China is not a threat to the US a year ago when Trump was profusely fanning the yellow peril propaganda. Although over  percent of Americans viewed China negatively, almost  percent wanted the government to improve relations with it, according to Pew and other US polling organizations. ChinaUS cooperation is particularly important amid surging COVID cases because the rising number of infections will erode the USs domestic demand. Trumps politically or ideologically motivated antiChina policies have worsened the pandemic and the economy. There is no reason to believe their continuation will reverse that. US allies are in even worse shape, with the EU, Japan and India expecting contractions of over  percent in . To curb the virus spread and reverse the downward economic trajectory, Chinas cooperation is more essential than ever. Ken Moak taught economic theory, public policy and globalization at the university level for  years.