Bubble life floats fresh ideas for new normal
2020/11/11 9:32
The NBAs bubble at the ESPN Wide World of Sports Complex in Florida hosted teams for three months. Officials from the league hailed the project as a success, claiming maskwearing, social distancing and other health protocols were strictly adhered to. AP The NBA is tentatively eyeing a return date of Dec .The NHL is aiming at games resuming in January. Baseballs spring training could begin in February, like normal. They almost certainly wont be in bubbles if and when any or all of that happens. But many of the lessons learned from being in some form of a bubble environmentwhere the NBA, NHL and MLB each crowned a champion after finding a way to finish their seasons in most unusual circumstancescould apply to whatever the new definition of normal is for those and other sports. A new set of rules are coming in just about every sport, almost all with enhanced health and safety in mind. If they work, games could return to arenas and stadiums with some fans in attendance sometime soon. Perhaps more importantly, they could also provide some commonsense solutions to virus issues in the real world. The testing isnt what made it successful, the testing sort of showed that it was successful, said NBA senior vicepresident David Weiss, who helped oversee all the health and safety efforts at the Walt Disney World bubble in Lake Buena Vista, Florida. But the thing that made it successful in the first place was the adherence to all those protocols that most people can follow most of the time in their lives. There was no magic bullet in the NBA or NHL bubbles Masks were worn, hand sanitizing was stressed constantly and social distancing was required at all times. The NBA had teams in the bubble for three months, with the Los Angeles Lakers winning that title. The NHL playoff bubble lasted  days, from the time teams arrived in Toronto and Edmonton, Alberta, until Tampa Bay won the Stanley Cup. Officials from both leagues noted that maskwearing, social distancing and other protocols were still being followed on the final day. It was unique, NHL deputy commissioner Bill Daly said, but hopefully a onceinalifetime experience. So what happens now? Even as coronavirus numbers are spiking again across much of the US, experts dont think its a pipe dream to have fans, even indoors, with a combination of some screening, masks, distancing and planning how they enter and exit. Rapid testing would really change the number of people that you can bring in safely, said Ryan Demmer, a University of Minnesota associate professor of epidemiology and community health. Its hard to say what the exact number would be. I would not feel comfortable with a full stadium. But maybe instead of  or  percent capacity, you could get to  or  percent, which is still pretty meaningful in terms of revenues. That is a huge part of the whathappensnext equation. The NHL estimates half of its revenue comes from ticket holders. MLB says it missed revenue projections by about  billion. The NBA missed its financial mark by . billion. Baseball had some fans for games as the playoffs progressed. College football and the NFL play before very small crowds now in most cities, limited because of the virus. Finding ways to get more fans into gamessafelygoing forward is paramount. We understand what happens with fans is going to be a product of what happens with the virus, what decisions public health authorities make in terms of mass gatherings, MLB commissioner Rob Manfred told Associated Press last month. It is a huge issue for us in terms of the economics of the game. Baseball nearly made it through its version of playoff bubbles unscathed two innings before the World Series ended, Justin Turner of the nowchampion Los Angeles Dodgers was pulled from the game after MLB was notified that he had tested positive for COVID. The yearold Turner was quarantined in a doctors office off to the side, then later returned to the field with a mask to celebrate the Dodgers title. He then took down his mask and posed for a team photo on the field, a violation of coronavirus protocols. The WNBA played its  bubble in Bradenton, Florida. A few players had false positives, but things mostly ran smoothlymore proof that adherence to rules pays off. No one got COVID inside our bubble, said Dan Carlin, CEO and founder of JobSiteCare, which provided the WNBA with its medical staff. People showed up with COVID. This was a tremendous amount of work to get these people out of circulation before they infected anyone. Border and travel restrictions affect the NHL more than any other pro league because seven of  teams are based in Canada. Therefore, next season could require some adjustments from the bubble like an allCanadian division or potentially pods around North America hosting games. Baseballs Toronto Blue Jays played their home games in Buffalo this year cities are lining up to woo the NBAs Toronto Raptors for next season, though they remain focused on playing at home. Were at the mercyand we respect itof governments state governments, federal governments, provincial governments, NHL senior executive vicepresident Steve Mayer said. The NHL learned it doesnt necessarily need to physically fence in players and staff for any quarantine situations next season. The NBA doesnt want another bubble experience. That doesnt mean many of the bubble protocols and principles will be forgotten. Wherever we are playing games, youre going to want to try to limit interactions with kind of our core people and kind of the outside uncontrolled people, Daly said. Its all about, I think, minimizing risk, and so there are a lot of elements of the bubble that will translate to whats next. The one area where everyone agrees If fans are coming back, theyll be in masks. Harvards Dr. John Spengler, who participated in a ventilation study of ice rinks at Purdue, said there are significant carbon dioxide discharges from players and that theres no substitute for maskwearing among those in the stands to prevent the spread of something as contagious as this coronavirus. Some of the basics that we saw around really consistent use of masks, really focusing on distance, really being careful about settings that involve eating and drinking and really rigorous and hygiene and cleaning, you saw all of that, Weiss said. That adds up to a lot of protection. AP