
2021/9/21 17:48
Chinas transport sector is expected to prepare for the return peak on Tuesday, the last day of the threeday MidAutumn Festival holiday, transport regulators said. Some . million trips are expected to be made by the national railway network on Tuesday, peak of the returning trips, according to China State Railway Group, the national railway operator. The railway department plans to add  train services to cater for the increasing demands on the day. Freeways are expected to see more traffic on Tuesday, especially from the afternoon. In Beijing, major freeways connecting the capitals suburbs will see an increasing number of returning vehicles  peak hours from  to  pm, the citys transport commission said. The civil aviation industry also is expected to see the return peak on Tuesday. Some , flights are scheduled in the capitals two airports on Tuesday. The threeday MidAutumn Festival, from Sunday to Tuesday, is the first national holiday since summer, when a few COVID cases emerged and were scattered in some provinces since July. During the MidAutumn Festival, many people are planning for short trips to release the desire for travel, which was suppressed in summer. The national railway network is expected to handle  million passenger trips from Saturday to Tuesday, with the peak falling on Sunday. The railway regulator offered , train services to handle nearly . million passenger trips on Sunday. According to China State Railway Group, railway traffic is expected to resume during MidAutumn Festival. To offer highquality service, railway departments from various places have offered targeted services to benefit passengers. In some regions in Northeast Chinas Heilongjiang province and North Chinas Inner Mongolia autonomous region, heating services are offered on some trains to cater to temperature declines. To contain the spread of the COVID, passengers can obtain new face masks for free at some railway stations, such as Shenyang and Dalian in Northeast Chinas Liaoning province. Bullet train services are arranged every five minutes between Xian, Northwest Chinas Shaanxi province and Chengdu, Southwest Chinas Sichuan province, to expand passengers travel choices. The national civil aviation regulator planned more domestic flights to respond to increased demand during MidAutumn Festival. In addition to about , flights every week, another , are planned during the holiday, according to the Civil Aviation Administration of China. Because of the scattered COVID outbreaks across China in the past two months, travel has been limited, causing the civil aviation sector to miss out on its peak summer season, said Shang Kejia, deputy director of the administrations Transport Department. She added summer traffic was down  percent compared with  and down . percent compared with last year. More trips are expected to be made during MidAutumn Festival and National Day holidays than over the summer, she said, based on data from search results on online travel agencies. Part of the desire to travel suppressed in summer will be released during the two holidays, Shang said. In Beijing, , flights are planned to enter and leave Capital International Airport of Beijing and Beijing Daxing International Airport during MidAutumn Festival. Due to the opening of the Universal Studios theme park, the capital has become a major source to attract inbound passengers during the holiday, especially from Shanghai, Shenzhen and Guangzhou, South Chinas Guangdong province, as well as Chengdu and Chongqing, according to the air traffic control department in Northern China. The Universal Studios theme park opened to the general public in Beijing on Monday.