Officials urging precautions in cities with new confirmed cases of COVID
2020/11/11 7:58
A volunteer distributes vegetables to residents of Yingqian village in Shanghais Pudong New Area on Tuesday. Yingqian was designated a mediumrisk area after the city announced on Monday that a new confirmed COVID case had been identified there. YIN LIQINCHINA NEWS SERVICE Health authorities in several cities with new local COVID infections urged residents to stay vigilant and reiterated the use of personal hygiene and protection measures, including wearing masks, maintaining social distancing and paying attention to food safety. In recent days, three new confirmed cases have been reportedin Tianjin, Shanghai and Fuyang, Anhui provincebut authorities reacted quickly with prevention and control measures, officials said. In Tianjin, largescale nucleic acid testing started on Monday evening on , residents of the Hangu subdistrict and the two blocks neighboring a coldchain logistics area at the central fishing port in the citys Binhai New Area. The areas were classified as mediumrisk for COVID on Tuesday after a yearold man, who works at a loading dock of a cold storage company, tested positive, becoming a confirmed COVID patient on Sunday. The tests, progressing around the clock, have gone smoothly, said Li Haiyan, Party secretary of Hangus Dongbinli community, home to , people. Officials also urged residents in the mediumrisk areas not to leave their communities. The novel coronavirus found to have infected the Tianjin patient was very similar to the strain that spread in North America between March and June, local government officials said. The man tested positive after he handled a shipment of frozen pork last week. Samples of the outer packaging of the pork, which arrived in Tianjin on Oct  from Germany, tested positive for coronavirus on Saturday. On Tuesday, the city reported an asymptomatic COVID casea yearold man who is a stevedore at Tianjin Dongjiang Free Trade Port Zone in the Binhai New Area. Also, a second man, , a driver who went to the facilities where the confirmed patient worked and who loaded frozen food on Thursday, was reported as an asymptomatic case on Monday. In Yunnan province, Gengma Dai and Va autonomous county reported two new asymptomatic COVID cases on Monday. The individuals are from Myanmar. An imported asymptomatic case from Myanmar was also reported in Ruili, in the province, on Tuesday. The county initiated emergency preventive actions soon after, and residents in three communities in Mengding townBaqu, Qingshuihe and Banxingwere required to complete  days of home quarantine. Schools in the town were suspended. Shanghais government said on Tuesday that all , people in the city with ties to the confirmed local COVID patienta yearold man who works as a cargo handler at Shanghai Pudong International Airporthad tested negative for the virus. Twentysix people who had close contact with the confirmed patient and  people who interacted with those individuals have also been quarantined at designated hotels, according to the authorities. In Shanghais Pudong New Area, Yingqian, a village in Zhuqiao where the patient lives, was designated as a mediumrisk area for the spread of COVID on Monday. However, a confirmed COVID case, a close contact of the Shanghai patient, was reported in Fuyang, Anhui province, on Tuesday. The yearold man also worked as a stevedore at Shanghai Pudong International Airport. Zhou Huiying contributed to this story.