Highways help villagers in Gansu out of poverty
2021/9/21 17:41
A nurse works in a COVID patients room during a tour of SSM Health St. Anthony Hospitals intensive care unit ICU amid the coronavirus disease COVID pandemic in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma, the US, Aug , .  WASHINGTON  US COVIDrelated deaths on Monday surpassed ,, the estimated US fatalities from the  influenza pandemic, while battles over vaccines and masks continue as the country staggers into the th month of the pandemic. As of  pm ET  GMT on Monday, , Americans were killed due to COVID, with the total caseload exceeding  million, according to a tally by Johns Hopkins University. The fatalities are expected to continue to rise as the country is currently experiencing another wave of new infections, fueled by the fastspreading Delta variant. We cannot become hardened to the continuing, and largely preventable, tragedy, Tom Frieden, the former head of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention CDC, tweeted earlier this month, noting deaths from COVID in the United States would surpass the toll of the  flu pandemic. The dismal milestone of surpassing the  death toll came as Americans are still divided over mask and vaccine mandates. Early this month, US President Joe Biden announced a sixpronged national strategy as a path to ending the pandemic. As of Monday, over . million Americans, or . percent of the US population, have been fully inoculated, according to the CDC. Expressing his frustration with the roughly  million Americans who are eligible for shots but have not gotten them, Biden is requiring all businesses with  or more employees to ensure their workers are either vaccinated or tested weekly. Bidens new vaccine mandates, which could apply to as many as  million Americans, or almost twothirds of the American workforce, have spawned a strong pushback from quite a few Republican states and unions. Also, many Americans believe whether to get vaccinated should be a personal decision, instead of a government mandate. Polls show that those who reject vaccines are more worried about possible side effects of the vaccines than they are about COVID. Social media are also rife with conspiracy theories about vaccines. Nationwide, American parents are torn apart by the conflicts among school boards, Republican states and the Biden administration over how to make schools open and safe. As of Sept , over . million children and adolescents had tested positive for COVID since the onset of the pandemic, according to the latest report by the American Academy of Pediatrics. The US Education Department has recently announced it is investigating the state of Florida over its ban on mask mandates in the states public schools, after an appeals court in the state reversed a lower courts ruling and allowed the ban to stay. Floridas Republican Governor Ron DeSantis issued an executive order on July , banning mask mandates at public schools to ensure parents freedom to choose. The order includes a policy of withholding funds from school districts that defy the governors order. However,  of Floridas  school districts have strict mask requirements, in defiance of the state, local newspaper Miami Herald reported. Bidens administration has offered financial aid for schools in Florida affected by DeSantis policy. In addition to Florida, Texas, Nebraska and quite a few other Republican states have issued a mask mandates ban, contradicting the CDC guidance of universal indoor masking for all teachers, staff, students, and visitors to K schools. Emma Cheng, a mother of two young boys at Marengo Elementary School in east Los Angeles, California, gave her full and unwavering support to the schools mask mandate. We must follow the science, and it is that simple, Cheng told Xinhua. We support the school mask mandate especially since our little ones cannot be vaccinated yet, said Hector Lopez, who has a sevenyearold boy at the school. Cheng joined over  others to sign a petition called Vaccinate SPUSD South Pasadena Unified School District to demand that their school district vaccinate teachers of children under  years old. Many private schools have implemented a mask policy long before the states order was announced. With mask requirements in place, Notre Dame Academy, a private Catholic school for girls in New York, has managed to stay open throughout the entire pandemic. Masking is not a thing that bothers parents or a challenge to their parenting rights, said Y.C. Hoerle, who has a high school freshman at the school.