Top  global G markets
2020/11/10 6:40
China took sixth place in the top  G markets in the world, with South Korea ranking first for G deployment, followed by Switzerland and Kuwait at second and third according to Omedias Global G Progress Update released earlier this year. The findings assessed the deployment progress of G based on operator launches, network coverage, subscriptions and G spectrum availability, as well as the regulatory ecosystem in  countries across the globe. South Korea has established itself as the early market leader for G technology, with adoption reaching . million users by the end of March this year, accounting for nearly  percent of the wireless services market. Over  cities and towns in Switzerland have at least  percent G connectivity, and the number had expanded to  localities by May, according to Omedia. In China, as more than , G stations has been deployed, G users exceeded  million by the end of September, said Liu Honglie, the viceminister at Chinas Ministry of Industry and Information Technology at the China Internet Media Forum in Shanghai. Lets take a look at the top  global G markets. No  Germany Tim Hoettges, CEO of Deutsche Telekom AG, walks on stage past a G technology setup during the companys annual shareholder meeting in Bonn, Germany on March , .  No  Japan A man uses a mobile phone in front of a Rakuten Mobile branch in Tokyo on Dec , .  No  Finland A boat embarks for a tour in Helsinki, Finland on May , .  No  UK Pedestrians walk past an advertisement promoting the G data network at a mobile phone store in London on Jan , .  No  China A man and a child wearing face masks walk past a G sign inside a Huawei store at a shopping mall in Beijing on July , .  No  Qatar A view of the Education City Stadium in Al Rayyan, Qatar ahead of the World Cup in .  No  United States Workers install G telecommunications equipment on a TMobile US Inc tower in Seabrook, Texas on May , .  No  Kuwait An aerial view taken with a drone shows the Kuwait National Assembly building on Oct , .  No  Switzerland The logo of Swiss telecoms group Swisscom is seen at an office building in Zurich, Switzerland on May , .  No  South Korea People take photographs during a launch ceremony for SK Telecoms G service in Seoul on April , . 