Sri Lanka to lift COVID curfew in several areas after  days
2020/11/9 0:00
Editors note Kang Taisen, a photographer who is over  years old, worked as a photojournalist in a newspaper in his early days, and he developed acute observation and photographing skills. He is keen on photographing ordinary people, and he is good at expressing the dramatic and vivid life scenes in our daily life. His photography is not only imbued with the imprint of the times and humor, but also with a life attitude that is thoughtprovoking. Kang has been constantly on the road, using his lens to take us facetoface to the normal life of people in remote areas, without interference and exaggeration. His photos have become a true portrayal of the different stages in the process of our social development. I started using my camera to create my own art in seven years after the reform and openingup officially took place. At that time, I was deeply inspired by the works of some famous foreign photographers, especially their works on China. You must be curious about how I operate the camera. Theres nothing strange about itI just have my own technique. In the following  years, my lens has always been focusing on ordinary people. I realized that the most intuitive changes in Chinas reform and openingup should be reflected in peoples lives and the betterment of mankind. I have become accustomed to integrating the people I want into my photographs in my own way. A lot of people dont know Im just like theman ordinary person who is busy working for a living all day long with the same happiness and sorrow. Recording their lives actually reflects my own life. I also believe that ordinary people can do extraordinary things. For many years, I like to repeatedly go to Hunan, Guizhou, Chongqing, Hubei, Sichuan and other places in China for onthespot observation. Photographing people is an artful endeavor. When I went to these provinces at the beginning of  years ago, many places were still poor, and I could clearly feel the huge gap there compared with the economically developed regions. This also prompted me to make up my mind to explore and record as many times as possible. I want to see changes, especially unpredictable changes at the time. This idea is full of inexplicable challenges and deep temptations. I did not use a specific person or a specific family as the entry point of my photos, but instead focused on the people as a whole. The bottom line is not to interfere, not to whitewash, and not to exaggerate. In addition to professional reasons, it is more out of my concern and compassion for the people. One of the subjects I am most interested in is the local farmers market. The local fair is a gathering place for the people in the outlying villages and towns to trade and purchase. I have photographed hundreds of bazaars in the past  years, and I can clearly feel the huge change from material scarcity in the past to material abundance today. Peoples transactions range from mostly selfproduced agricultural products, agricultural tools to clothing, food and electronic products, besides the upgrading of the transportation vehicles used by people in the market. The change is immediately noticeable. In recent years, I have been consciously capturing the fashion elements that are appearing more and more in small counties or towns. The kind of mix and match and the sudden appearance of dramatic elements often fascinate me. All that I can do is to use my lens to preserve as much of these real changes as possible. I dont deliberately use light, shadow and photo composition to create a sense of beauty, but I am used to using the most direct and simple images to simply present the situation I see. Although one can only catch a glimpse of the life in it, but as time goes by, I have accumulated a lot of such photos. At least it is a true portrayal of peoples life in a period of time, and it can be regarded as a photographic archive. ? A food delivery rider takes advantage of his leisure time to groom himself in Jiangan county, Sichuan province. KANG TAISENFOR CHINA DAILY ? ? People are requested to wear a mask when taking public transportation in Xuyong county, Sichuan province. KANG TAISENFOR CHINA DAILY ? ? A vegetable seller who is leaning her elbow on her chin makes a striking resemblance with the movie star on the poster in Sinan county, Guizhou province. KANG TAISENFOR CHINA DAILY ? ? Street vendors are allowed after  pm every day in Yibins East Street, Sichuan province. A chic girl has her nails done by a manicurist. KANG TAISENFOR CHINA DAILY ? ? The pattern on the Tshirt of a rural woman catches the attention of a child next to her at a market in Yongxing town, Meitan county, Guizhou province. KANG TAISENFOR CHINA DAILY ? ? An old lady passing by watches a group practicing tai chi and cannot help but follow along in Yuanling county, Hunan province. KANG TAISENFOR CHINA DAILY ? ? A street vendor sells a wide variety of sunglasses at the local fair in Sinan county, Guizhou province. KANG TAISENFOR CHINA DAILY ? ?