Chinas foreign trade maintains upward momentum in October
2020/11/8 7:52
Aerial photo shows a roro ship waiting to load Chinamade cars for export at a berth of Port of Lianyungang in Lianyungang city, East Chinas Jiangsu province, Sept , .  BEIJING  Chinas foreign trade sustained its upward momentum in October with notable growth and improved structure, official data showed Saturday. The countrys foreign trade expanded . percent year on year in October, with exports jumping . percent year on year and imports climbing . percent in yuan terms, the General Administration of Customs GAC said in a statement. In the first  months, Chinas foreign trade of goods totaled . trillion yuan . trillion U.S. dollars, up . percent year on year, accelerating from an increase of .percent in the first three quarters. General trade, involving longer production chains and better reflecting the countrys manufacturing strength, edged up . percent during the month period, taking a larger share of the total trade of goods. The Association of Southeast Asian Nations remained Chinas largest trading partner during the period, followed by the European Union and the United States. A visitor takes photos at the Trade in Services exhibition area during the third China International Import Expo CIIE in Shanghai, East China, Nov , .  Private companies played a significant role in propelling trade growth, with their foreign trade expanding by . percent in the first  months to account for . percent of the countrys total, GAC data showed. Mechanical and electrical products took the lions share of the countrys exports, with their export value reaching . trillion yuan in the first  months, up . percent year on year. Textile exports including masks jumped . percent year on year during the period, while auto exports slipped . percent. Chinas foreign trade has emerged from the woes of the COVID pandemic in recent months thanks to government policies to stabilize the sector. Commodities from South Korea are transported to a warehouse under fulltime tracking at a crossborder ecommerce supervision center in Qingdao, East Chinas Shandong province, June , .  To mitigate the impact of the pandemic on foreign trade firms, the country has introduced streamlined procedures at customs and incentives for crossborder ecommerce and other innovative trade forms. In its latest effort to open its market and boost trade, the country unveiled measures ranging from shortening the catalog of technologies prohibited or restricted from import to strengthening intellectual property protection at the ongoing China International Import Expo in Shanghai. The country also vowed to set up  demonstration zones to promote imports, with innovative regulatory systems and flexible trade models to be piloted at these zones. As China implements a new development pattern of dual circulation, where the domestic and foreign markets can boost each other, with the domestic market as the mainstay, China will see the scale of foreign trade continue to expand, according to Han Wenxiu, an official of the Central Committee for Financial and Economic Affairs.