Health safety measures take center stage at CIIE
2020/11/7 9:59
? ? ? ? One of the most distinct differences between this years China International Import Expo, which kicked off on Wednesday, and previous editions is the ubiquitous use of masks within the venue. Besides the wearing of masks, which volunteers and security personnel around the venue fervently enforce, event organizers have also taken a slew of other measures to safeguard the health of visitors amid the COVID pandemic. These measures include deploying some  medical workers across the sprawling National Exhibition and Convention Center Shanghai and setting up dozens of medical stations and temporary observation and treatment sites. Visitors who feel unwell can seek help from any of these medical stations, all of which are equipped with sophisticated systems that can perform a range of medical examinations. Each of these stations is managed by medics from a particular hospital in Shanghai. The comprehensive measures have won the approval of exhibitors, many of whom said they felt assured of their safety. It is reassuring to know that everyone who enters the venue has to first undergo nucleic acid tests, said Sun Hui, a spokesperson for Japanese electronics firm Omron. A threetime CIIE participant, Omron is showcasing a host of innovative products, including a table tennis robot called Forpheus and the worlds first home electronic blood pressure monitor that has an EKGelectrocardiogram function. I think that the organizers have taken every possible precaution when it comes to safeguarding the health of the exhibitors and we are very appreciative of this, said Sun. Another exhibitor who gave a thumbsup for the pandemic prevention measures was Ingo Hamann, the technical sales support director of water heating systems company Stiebel Eltron, which is participating in the expo for the first time as part of a contingent of German companies. The prevention and control measures are really good, said Hamann.Everyone in the company was provided with COVID tests before the commencement of the expo and all the exhibits and booths were thoroughly disinfected. Everything has been wellplanned. I feel that nothing bad will happen. Hamann added that despite the strict health safety protocols, his staff faced no problems or delays in transporting or setting up the exhibits. The stringent measures are good. In fact, such measures should be implemented everywhere in the world. I have been in China for the past  months and I can see the situation is under better control. On the other hand, there are still countries in Europe that are not doing so well. Boehringer Ingelheim ChinaInvestment Co Ltd, one of the worlds largest pharmaceutical companies, shared the same sentiment. The epidemic prevention measures taken by the expo are thorough and effective, giving us utmost confidence in the safety of this event, said May Yin, the companys vicepresident of communication for China. Of course, it helps that many of the technologies used by the CIIE, such as the HealthCode system, have already been in place on a national level for months. We have seen time and time again that these tools work and are keeping people safe. Other prevention measures include the placement of more than  air purifiers around the media center. According to Shen Liang, an official with the Shanghai Municipal Information Office, these devices are capable of eliminating . percent of germs in the air. At the outdoor areas of the expo venue, tables have been fitted with transparent dividers to enforce physical distancing and intercept respiratory droplets.