US sets new world record as singleday COVID cases surpass ,
2020/11/7 7:56
WASHINGTON  The United States has set a new world record as its singleday COVID cases topped over , on Thursday. ? Vials with a sticker reading, COVID  Coronavirus vaccine  Injection only are seen in front of a displayed US dollar banknote with George Washington and a printed mask in this illustration taken October , .  A total of , new cases and , new deaths were recorded on Thursday, according to data updated by the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention CDC on Friday. The new number broke the previous record of , singleday cases on Wednesday. The country had added over , cases in two consecutive days respectively, which marked a grim milestone since the outbreak of the pandemic. The surge had been predicted by experts months ago. In June, with daily cases hovering around ,, Anthony Fauci, director of the US National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, warned the country was on track to hit , daily cases if the nation did not work harder to stop the spread of the coronavirus. The day average case count also set a new record at over , on Thursday, CDC data show. Currently more than , COVID cases have been reported across more than , US colleges and universities, according to The New York Times. More than  campuses have marked , COVID infections while  colleges have reported at least  cases. The majority of infections occurred as students returned to school for the fall semester. While young adults are at lower risk for severe disease and death compared to older adults and those with preexisting conditions, experts are concerned young adults could transmit the virus to those at higher risks and can also become seriously ill themselves. As nationwide COVID cases soar, the number of hospitalized Americans is also climbing, and experts warn that could lead to a rise in deaths. The United States currently has more than , hospitalized patients, according to The COVID Tracking Project. A new ensemble forecast by the CDC predicts that a total of , to , COVID deaths will be reported by the end of November. The United States has recorded more than ,, confirmed COVID cases and over , deaths as of Friday afternoon, according to the realtime count kept by Johns Hopkins University.