The world in photos Sept  C
2021/9/21 5:36
 WASHINGTON  The United States announced Monday it will lift Covid travel bans on all air passengers in November if they are fully vaccinated and undergo testing and contact tracing. The unprecedented restrictions had kept relatives, friends and business travelers around the world separated for many months as the pandemic grinds on. Jeffrey Zients, coronavirus response coordinator for President Joe Biden, told reporters the new consistent approach would take effect early November. The easing of travel restrictions, imposed by Donald Trump  months ago as the Covid pandemic first erupted, marks a significant shift by Biden and answers a major demand from European allies at a time of strained diplomatic relations. Numerous safeguards will remain in place to suppress spread of the virus, which has already killed more than , Americans and is resurgent after what many had hoped was a lasting dip earlier this year. Most importantly, foreign nationals flying to the US will be required to be fully vaccinated, Zients said. It was not immediately clear if the new rule only applied to USapproved vaccines or if other brands, such as those produced in China or Russia, would also qualify. Zients said that would be determined by the US Centers for Disease Control. Restrictions on vehicle movement from Canada and Mexico will remain in place. We do not have any updates on the land border policies, Zients said. Zients said passengers will need to show they were fully vaccinated before boarding planes bound for the United States, as well as providing proof of a negative Covid test taken within three days. Americans not fully vaccinated will still be able to enter, but only on testing negative within a day of travel. Masks will be obligatory on USbound flights, and airlines will provide the US health authorities with contact tracing information. This new international travel system follows the science to keep Americans international air travel safe, Zients said. AFP