Africa reports  rise in COVID infections
2020/11/6 20:39
People wearing protective face masks wait in line for a taxi to get to work in Soweto, South Africa June , .  Africa continues to report increased new coronavirus infections, having recorded , new cases between Oct  and Nov , translating to a  percent increase compared to the previous week, according to data from the Africa Centers for Disease Control and Prevention released on Thursday. The northern region reported the highest number of new cases and fatalities standing at , cases or  percent and , deaths, followed by southern with , cases or  percent and  deaths, eastern with , cases or  percent and  deaths, western with , cases or  percent and  deaths, and central African region with , or  percent and  deaths. As per individual countries, Morocco recorded the highest number of new cases at , , followed by Tunisia with , cases, South Africa with , cases, and Kenya with , cases. The continent recorded a  percent increase in the number of new deaths, with Tunisia leading with  deaths, followed by Morocco with  deaths, South Africa with , and Kenya with  deaths. However, while the number of cases is increasing, the virus has spread at a slower rate in the continent compared to other parts of the world, with its infections standing at  percent of all cases reported globally. Of the countries actively reporting coronavirus epidemiologic data, fifteen countries are reporting case fatality rates higher than the global case fatality rate of . percent. They include Sahrawi Arab Democratic Republic at . percent, Chad at . percent, Sudan at . percent, Egypt at . percent, Liberia at . percent, Niger at . percent, Mali at . percent, Algeria at . percent, Gambia at . percent, Sierra Leone at . percent, Malawi at . percent, Zimbabwe at . percent, Democratic Republic of Congo at . percent, Burkina Faso at . percent and South Africa at . percent. As of Nov , Africa had reported a total of . million cases and , deaths. A majority of countries are still reporting community transmission, according to Africa CDC. South Africa is the most affected country in terms of infection cases with ,  cases as at Nov , followed by Morocco with ,, Egypt with ,, and Ethiopia with , cases. South Africa has also recorded the highest number of deaths as at Nov , standing at ,, followed by Egypt with ,, Morocco with , and Algeria with ,. Meanwhile, the African region finance ministers for Sanitation and Water for All, a global partnership committed to achieving universal access to clean drinking water and adequate sanitation, said the battle against the pandemic is far from over. In a meeting on Wednesday, the ministers said governments and their development partners should fortify their defenses against the disease by providing greater access to water, sanitation and hygiene services to protect their people from coronavirus and waterborne diseases. They said more than  percent of the population in SubSaharan Africa does not have access to clean water and cannot follow the advice of health experts to wash their hands as a primary way to stop the spread of the virus. The coronavirus pandemic is a wakeup call to all of us, member states, development partners and allies in Africa and beyond, to prioritize water, sanitation and hygiene service delivery, in the presence of competing needs, they said.