Daylily lifts North China village out of poverty
2020/11/6 10:27
A daylily plantation in Yunzhou district is seen in Datong, Shanxi province, on July .?Photo provided to China Daily Over the decades, people living in North Chinas Shanxi province have planted the daylily, an edible flower. But not until five years ago did they find a way out of poverty relying on this little yellow flower. On a table in a restaurant in Yunzhou district of Shanxis Datong city, the chef introduced special dishes made with the daylily, from steamed bread to mooncake. Having such a dinner has been an attractive draw for tourists. In this district, the daylily helped , local residents shake off poverty by May . The whole industrial chain, from planting to developing relevant products and logistics, has offered thousands of jobs, profits and tax income to individuals and local government. To encourage people to join in the planting of daylily, the local government offers subsidies of  yuan . per . hectares in the first two years, as the flower only matures from the third year of growth. Wang Bin, a worker in a Sanli Co Ltd food processing factory, is picking highquality daylilies from a pile of dried flowers. I no longer have to plant the daylily fields myself, but rent the land to the cooperation, to earn dividends every year. The work is much easier than before,Wang said. The temperature, volcanic soil, and dry weather in Datong made the environment very suitable for planting highquality daylilies. The local government made the daylily a pillar industry to shake off poverty by the end of , as China sets twin goals  the elimination of extreme poverty and the country becoming a moderately prosperous society to be achieved in time for the th anniversary of the founding of the Party next July. The daylily industry in Datong is one of the prominent examples of Chinas poverty alleviation effort. Around the city,  villages have established bases for growing the flower and there are  leading processing companies,  professional cooperatives and  major daylily growers with over  hectares of daylily fields. As of the beginning of this year, the daylily fields have increased to , hectares from , hectares in  in Yunzhou district, creating an annual revenue of  million yuan for local people. Now the flower can be made into more relevant products, including beverages and facial masks. The daylily used be a delicacy for local residents, but it was very rare to get a chance to eat it, as it is even more expensive than pork, said An Yiping, director of a special office managing the daylily industry in Yunzhou district. Some chose to outsource their land to cooperatives and get yearly dividends, like a yearold surnamed Liu from Fangcheng New Village, who gets extra income of about , yuan from . hectares of land. The government also hires college students, cleaners and povertystricken households to harvest daylilies in July and August, which can increase young peoples income here. Liu Chaofan, Wang Anning, Ren Changsheng and Lu Yiwen contributed to this story.