Canadian parliament to probe governments handling of COVID pandemic
2020/11/6 0:00
Edwards Lifesciences is showcasing its latest technologies at the ongoing third China International Import Expo, which runs from Nov , in Shanghai. With its roots dating back to , the United Statesheadquartered medical technology company is dedicated to patientfocused medical innovations for structural heart disease, critical care and surgical monitoring. It is attending the CIIE for the first time, showcasing its latest transcatheter aortic valve replacement solution. The new technology, according to Michael Mussallem, chairman and CEO of Edwards Lifesciences, is set to help change the way doctors perform heart valve surgeries. This new technology is developed in the hope to enable doctors to change a heart valve without opening the chest and without stopping the heart, according to Mussallem. We are able to collapse a heart valve onto a very thin catheter, in a small hole in your upper thigh to advance it up your aorta around your heart over the diseased heart valve and inflate a balloon where it deploys the valve. The new valve pushes the diseased valve aside and immediately starts beating, he explained. Mussallem said he hopes this technology can make a difference and contribute to the Healthy China  national health plan because we have a chance to change peoples lives without them having to go through an openheart surgery. China is important to Edwards Lifesciences, which has  people on the payroll at its China office, according to Mussallem. We became an independent company  years ago and we established our China headquarters in Shanghai at about that time. We have been providing technology in China for all of that time. The company also provided help to doctors and patients in China during the fight against the COVID pandemic. We are fortunate, as a successful company, to be able to make a donation of , medical gloves and , surgical masks to Wuhan in the early days of the pandemic, Mussallem said. We partnered with organizations and I understand that we were able to donate about  million yuan , to COVID treatment and prevention projects in China, he said. From Feb  to June , Edwards sold  units of hemodynamic monitoring systems to  hospitals in China, serving more than  patients in intensive care units, according to the company. It sent more than  employees to frontline hospitals during the period to provide training and assist with installation of critical care technologies to monitor COVID patients. You could imagine that it was a challenge for us, just like everybody else, Mussallem said. We tried to carefully keep our team safe but knowing we also had a responsibility to the community in China to try and help them, he added. Mussallem expressed his admiration for Edwards employees, saying, They really inspired me, especially our people that went into work in hospitals every day because we know this was where the risk was the highest. Our people really feel deeply about their cultureour lifes work is helping patients, Mussallem said. In many cases there wasnt perfect protective equipment and we didnt have perfect knowledge of how risky COVID was in those early stages. But people just said I must help and they moved ahead. It was really inspiring for me personally to hear these stories of what our employees did, especially in those early days. Mussallem said Edwards looks forward to being a true partner with Chinese clinicians and to bringing the latest technologies to the country. We are committed to innovation and we spend  percent of our sales on research and development. This is what we love doingchanging the lives of patients. And this is why the CIIE meeting is such a great opportunity for us to be able to share Edwards lifesaving and lifeenhancing technologies. ? The stand of Edwards Lifesciences at the  China International Import Expo presents the companys efforts in innovating medical science technologies. CHINA DAILY ? ? Attendees at the China International Import Expo view the products of Edwards Lifesciences. CHINA DAILY ? ? Michael Mussallem, chairman and CEO of Edwards Lifesciences. CHINA DAILY ?