Chinas promise and practice of openingup
2020/11/6 0:00
The th anniversary of the resumption of diplomatic ties between the Peoples Republic of China and Grenada has coincided with the outbreak of the novel coronavirus, which poses a grave threat to human lives and serious economic and social challenges for various countries, while playing havoc with international relations. However, cooperation between China and Grenada during this period sets a brilliant example of building a community with a shared future for humankind. As a Chinese proverb goes, a true friends worth is realized in times of adversity. During this global catastrophe, China and Grenada have been supporting and helping each other in fighting against the virus. During the critical period of Chinas fight against the virus, Grenadian Prime Minister Keith Mitchell extended his sympathy and firm support to President Xi Jinping, while the Grenadian embassy in China donated medical supplies, warming the hearts of the Chinese people. In keeping with a Chinese saying that a helping hand in an emergency deserves great return, China lost no time in extending help to Grenada when the virus spread there. The Chinese side organized two videoconferences where health experts shared their experience in fighting against the virus with the Grenadian side. The Chinese government donated masks, protective suits, thermometers and goggles, easing the shortage in Grenada in the first month of the outbreak. Later, the Chinese Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Chinese embassy in Grenada, Zhejiang provincial government, Jack Ma Foundation and Alibaba Foundation donated batches of supplies to support Grenadas fight against the virus. The Chinese embassy also joined hands with the GrenadaChina Friendship Association to send relief supplies and good wishes to families in need. The Chinese government donated agricultural machinery such as tractors and greenhouses to support agricultural development for revitalizing Grenadas economy once the virus is controlled. The governments and peoples of the two countries have made peoples lives the priority and are closely cooperating with each other. China has always attached great importance to promoting ChinaGrenada ties and cherishing its friendship and cooperation with the country. In the postpandemic era, the two sides will continue to strengthen their friendship and partnership, setting a model of mutual respect and winwin cooperation. We will also reach greater consensus and deepen mutually beneficial cooperation, enabling the fruits of bilateral relations to be shared by the two peoples. China and Grenada should enhance political mutual trust and bilateral relations. The political mutual trust provides good development momentum to the friendly and cooperative relations between the two sides. Both countries have always respected and cared for each others core interests. China adheres to the principle of equality between all countries, respects Grenadas sovereignty and independence, does not interfere in its internal affairs, and actively helps the country enhance its ability to independently develop and promote its economy and social progress. The Chinese side will further deepen strategic mutual trust and cooperation with Grenada, support the development path suited to its national conditions and promote the stability of bilateral relations while both sides understand and support each others core interests and major concerns. The two countries will expand cooperation under the Belt and Road Initiative framework. Since the resumption of diplomatic ties, China and Grenada have carried out extensive practical cooperation for mutual benefits and winwin results. Achievements have been made in agriculture, peoples livelihoods, education, sports, culture, law enforcement and other fields, bringing tangible benefits to the two peoples. A project for improving the runways and roads at Grenadas Maurice Bishop International Airport, the first project that enjoys preferential loans provided by the Chinese government to promote transportation infrastructure connectivity, broke ground on Oct , signaling closer cooperation between the two countries. The two sides will dock their development strategies with each other and participate in the Belt and Road construction with highquality projects and expand cooperation in other fields to benefit both the Chinese and Grenadian people. Efforts will also be made to deepen cultural communications and promote peopletopeople exchanges. As bilateral cooperation between China and Grenada deepens Grenadian people are displaying a keen interest in Chinas traditions and culture. China will work with Grenada to deepen cultural exchanges, inject new impetus into two countries friendly relations and cooperation, stay engaged with different civilizations through mutual learning and exchange, so as to draw people closer. The world is facing great challenges. China will work handinhand with other countries, including Grenada, to forge ahead in the same boat and build a community with a shared future for humankind with concrete actions. SONG CHENCHINA DAILY The author is the Chinese ambassador to Grenada. The author contributed this article to China Watch, a think tank powered by China Daily.