Global enterprises taking part in third CIIE
2020/11/5 9:00
Highlights of whats on offer at expos business exhibition The logo of French food group Danone is seen at the companys headquarters in Paris, France, on Dec , .  Food and agricultural products More than , enterprises from nearly  countries and regions are demonstrating their food products at the third CIIE, including nearly  Fortune Global  and industryleading companies. Exhibits cover all aspects of the food industry including dairy, fruit and vegetables, beverages and alcohol, meat, aquatic products, frozen food, snack food, sweets, condiments and comprehensive food. Some highlights  The food and agricultural products section is a gathering platform for global food businesses. The number of participating countries and enterprises is the largest among all six exhibition sections.  The section drives trends in the food industry in the world. Many products designed to help people to improve health are on display. Environmentally friendly products also incorporate future trends.  A dairy products industry special committee, formed by some industryleading enterprises, has been established to strengthen communication and promote the development of the whole industry.  Many quality supporting programs are ongoing during the third CIIE, including the Belt and Road EcoAgriculture and Food Safety Forum organized by the State Administration for Market Regulation. A slew of subforums focused on imported food, meat and dairy products are held to support companies strategies.  Food companies are organizing more than , onsite events including sampling, performances, new products promotions and contract signing ceremonies.  The organizers ensure all exhibits abide by the COVID epidemic prevention rules issued by the Shanghai government, which include strict testing for imported frozen food and no sampling of uncooked fresh food, to ensure the safety of all participants. Dairy products subsection The exhibition space of dairy products at the food and agricultural products section is nearly , square meters. About a third of the Fortune Global  and industry leaders participating in the food and agricultural products area are dairy companies. Six of the top eight foreign dairy food makers are taking part in the exhibition. What to see Danone Nearly  products developed by French food group Danone are on display at the third CIIE, including super highend infant formula Aptamil Essensis and plantbased shake Vega One. Theland Theland improved its milk sourcing standards in . Its exhibits include different types of milk powder and highprotein milk. French Agriculture and Food Committee French Agriculture and Food Committee is attending the  CIIE with eight leading dairy companies and four fruit and vegetable producers and exporters from France. Fonterra Fonterra is displaying a probiotic product and an Anchorbranded milk product. The companys displays also include Anchorbranded cream and whey protein concentrate. Arla Foods Arla Foods is introducing some organic milk and infant formula at the third CIIE. A dialogue between Beijing Financial Street and the City of London takes place at the RitzCarlton Beijing Financial Street on Oct , as part of this years Financial Street Forum. FANG FEIFOR CHINA DAILY Trade in services The trade in services exhibition of the third CIIE has exhibitors showcasing services in finance, logistics, consulting, testing and tourism. More than  of them are Fortune Global  and industry leaders. The total exhibition space is , sq m. Some highlights  The logistics section continues to support logistics system construction of the Belt and Road Initiative. Dozens of port operators around the world are taking part in the exhibition.  This is the first time that the finance section includes nonbank finance such as securities, credit agencies and supply chain financial companies.  The total exhibition area of the consulting section has doubled in size since , with companies offering more specialized services covering a wider range of industries. What to see Orix Group Orixs new commercial service models of investmentindustry and investmentservice are on display during the third CIIE to support Chinas service trade industry and further openingup. Dun  Bradstreet Corporation Dun  Bradstreets demonstration at the third CIIE focuses on helping Chinese companies seeking business opportunities in foreign countries, improving trust in trade, risk management and control. It has also brought in a new index, which provides a risk evaluation of a company based on the impact that COVID has had on the companys location and supply chain. CBRE CBRE is set to make its first appearance at the expo with a sqm booth CBRE Future Center. The company is displaying property technology solutions and a strategic consulting service at the expo. Granite Springs Golf Club Granite Springs Golf Club from Canada is demonstrating its lifestyle and community management services during the expo. The unmanneddriving concept car Nucleus developed by Icona Group, a global design company based in Italy. designgroup.com Automobiles The automobile exhibition area of the third CIIE demonsrates the latest developments in the auto industry. That include vehicles, components and auto services. It will promote communication between governments and enterprises, create new cooperation opportunities, support auto industry upgrade and transformation and help companies take more social responsibilities. Some highlights  More than  percent of the planned automobile exhibition space area is occupied by Fortune Global  companies and leading industry players. The worlds top seven vehicle producers are taking part in the event. Their displays will show off the worlds most advanced technology and highest industry standards.  The automobile sector will also drive the auto industrys upgrade. Its the first time that CIIE will set up a smart transportation subsection in its automobile section. The subsection will reflect trends in the auto industry, which include internet connectivity and going smart.  A great number of influential automotive experts and businesses meet up at the CIIE this year to share their new findings on relevant fields. They make the expo not only a platform for international procurement and investment promotion, but also a vital setting for cooperation and exchange of ideas, the CIIE Bureau said. Smart transportation subsection The subsection attracted great attention from automakers once it was unveiled. The ,sqm exhibition area is a gathering place for industrial leaders including Michelin, Bosch, Aisin, Webasto and Icona. The subsection is set to amaze visitors with advanced technologies in fields such as autonomous driving, intelligent connectivity, smart cockpits, vehicleroad collaboration, control systems and sensor development. A slew of supporting events including the Fourth Industrial Revolution and Smart Transportation Forum will be held during the exhibition for global businesses and experts to exchange ideas. What to see Michelin Michelins achievements in smart and green transportation are on display. It launches a smart repair system for the first time in the world. It is debuting an airless mobility solution for passenger vehicles, known as Uptis, in the Asia market. Icona Icona is showing achievements in fields such as smart city construction and the agricultural industry at the third CIIE. A new type of chassis for autonomous vehicles are displayed for the first time in China. Robots equipped with the chassis are on display. Iconas design concepts for autosharing, artificial intelligence and smart agriculture are presented through video at its booths. Bosch Bosch is displaying its smart household appliances, the latest solutions for Industrial . and smart transportation at the third CIIE. Its demonstration in smart transportation fields includes sensors, multifunctional cameras for heavy trucks and service systems to support traffic management and road maintenance. Pony.ai Technology company Pony.ai is displaying a new Level selfdriving hardware system. Divergent Divergent is demonstrating the application of D printing in vehicle structure manufacturing at the CIIE. Visitors gather at the booth of Epson during the  CES Asia exhibition in Shanghai on June . Photo by Lyu LiangFor China Daily Intelligent industry and information technology More than  enterprises have set up booths across three exhibition halls, including more than  Fortune Global  companies and industry leaders. The companies are demonstrating their latest developments in highend equipment, automation, energy saving and environmental protection. Some highlights  A special committee of industrial digitalization, formed by leading exhibitors, has been established to promote communication. A white paper to share new findings on smart buildings development is released during the third CIIE.  The section has many newcomers this year despite the outbreak of COVID. Cheniere Energy, one of the largest liquefied natural gas producers in the United States, has set up a sqm booth to display new technologies and products. Epson and Konica Minolta are making their debut at the third CIIE.  Leading brands in the electric industry attending the expo including GE, Hitachi, Siemens and Schneider Electric famous engineering machinery makers include Caterpillar, John Deere and Volvo and topranking printing technology brands include Epson, Brother and Canon.  Event organizers have paid much attention to improving service quality to the satisfaction of exhibitors. They have provided early information access so buyers can communicate with exhibitors in an efficient manner. They also spared no efforts to ensure preparations went smoothly. Energy conservation and environmental protection subsection The energy conservation and environmental protection subsection, occupying an exhibition hall, features more than  companies. The subsection is divided into two areas. One is a comprehensive experience areas and the other is an individual brand display area. The comprehensive experience area is home to brands such as Novozymes, Grundfos and Rockwool. The individual display area contains companies such as Vaillant, Mannz, Bwt, Multipure, Ikea and Aavi. What to see Kaeser Compressors Kaeser Compressors is bringing a magnetic blower named PillAeartor to the  CIIE. The new product can help users achieve a  percent reduction in energy costs and lower carbon dioxide emissions. Another air system named SAM. will also be on display. Multipure Multipure is demonstrating two types of imported water purifier at the third CIIE. The company said the two products can tackle more than  pollutants in water. Ikea Swedish furniture giant Ikeas displays include several household goods made of recyclable products, including bamboo lights and foodstorage boxes made with recycled cardboard. Syr Syr is demonstrating its latest leakage protection devices at the  event. Visitors look at LOreal products at the companys booth during a cosmetics exhibition in Shanghai. Photo by Liu JunfengFor China Daily Consumer goods The exhibition area covers four exhibition halls, far exceeding original plans for the exhibition area. The sector features many sections, including cosmetics and household chemicals, household goods and gifts, intelligent life and home appliances, maternal and child products, sporting and outdoor leisure, and fashion trends and arts. Some highlights  Two special committees of the CIIE Enterprise Alliance, on consumer goods and sporting, have been established.  An increasing number of wellknown brands in foreign countries have signed up for the CIIE.  Dozens of leading technologydriven brands and newly established brands in cosmetics and personal care fields attend the CIIE for the first time.  More than  brands in intelligent life, electrical appliances, household appliances and furniture fields including many hidden champions  a term to describe enterprises that dominate a narrow business segment but are largely unknown to the general market  bring their latest developments to the expo.  Some brands in the fashion and clothing industries are launching jointly designed collections, customized products and limited editions during the third CIIE. Sporting goods subsection The CIIE has for the first time set up a sporting goods subsection at the consumer goods section. The area has drawn dozens of global leading event companies, brands and technology enterprises. It serves as a trade platform for businesses engaging in basketball, running, sailing, riding, indoor fitness and esports. A series of hot topics in the sports industry will be discussed including youth sports training and integration of traditional sports with esports. What to see LOreal The company, which specializes in beautytech transformation, is presenting a large number of beautytech innovations, which include the Asian debut of Perso, the worlds first device for personalized athome skincare and cosmetics formulas. Beautytech solutions codeveloped with tech company ModiFace, which include skincare, hair coloring and makeup, are demonstrated. A makeup recommendation AI application known as Face Architect is on display. Shiseido Shiseido has expanded its exhibition area and brought many new products and services to the  CIIE. Its luxury brand The Ginza and highend skincare brand Baum are on display. Decathlon Six subsidiaries and  brands under French sporting goods retailer Decathlon are taking part in the  CIIE. Products for camping, indoor fitness, skiing, diving, canoeing, rock climbing and equestrianism are lighting up the newly established sporting goods area. Some innovative products including a quick inflatable kayak and a fullface snorkel mask used by medical service providers in Europe during the COVID pandemic are also on display. Nike Its Nikes firsttime participation in the CIIE. The sportswear giant joins hands with its partners to promote public sports, charitable work and sustainability. It is organizing a Move to Zero workshop, and inviting artists to use recycled materials to make artworks during the third CIIE. CT machines made by GE are displayed at a medical equipment exhibition in Shanghai on April . Photo provided to China Daily Medical equipment and healthcare products The medical equipment and healthcare products section, with a planned exhibition area of , sq m, boasts nearly  exhibitors, among which more than  are Fortune Global  and industry leaders. The actual exhibition area far exceeds the planned figure, according to the CIIE Bureau. The section focuses on demonstrating pharmaceutical products, healthcare facilities, and eldercare and healthcare products and services. Some highlights  A public health and epidemic prevention subsection was established to promote communication between governments and enterprises.  Topnotch products from leading players are on display, making the area a cluster of key industries in the field.  The expo organizers have spared no effort to improve service and satisfaction among enterprises. Public health and epidemic prevention subsection As the COVID pandemic remains a global challenge, the organizers have set up a subsection focused on public health and epidemic prevention that displays products such as testing devices, ventilators and personal preventative equipment. Fortyeight exhibitors signed up for the special section, which covers more than , sq m. What to see GE GE Healthcare is displaying a virtual care solution that integrates data from multiple monitoring systems and devices to provide a realtime, comprehensive view of patients status in a single display, among other products. AbbVie It is AbbVies debut at the annual CIIE. The companys booth features an AbbVie Innovation Lab that showcases its latest portfolio in areas such as immunology, oncology and neuroscience. Boehringer Ingelheim The German pharmaceutical company is demonstrating its latest achievements in healthcare including efforts in containing COVID. A vaccine for swine flu, developed in China, is also on display. Danaher Corporation Danaher is displaying its latest COVID nucleic acid test kit at the  CIIE. The new test kit is called Xpert Xpress SARSCoV.