Radicalization is a real and present danger that breeds terrorism in HK
2020/11/4 9:30
The Great Hall of the People in Beijing.  Preparations for the th FiveYear Plan ?started at the end of  when the central government held a special conference on the formulation of the th FiveYear Plan. Since then, relevant ministries have started consultations and held internal seminars, meetings, discussions, and debates. Professionals and experts from all appropriate fields across the board from almost all parts of China, ethnicities and parties were involved. The consultation process and discussions were not hindered due to the outbreak of novel coronavirus. Sometimes they were held confidentially online sometimes, they were held offline, with participants wearing masks and following strict preventive measures. Public opinion also was collected on the internet when the th FiveYear Plan was formulated. Many apps and websites set up columns to call for the general public to offer suggestions. Social media played a vital role in involving the masses, known as the collective wisdom of the Chinese system. Their opinions were then summarized and reported to decisionmakers. The highest level of leadership is involved in the formulation of the th FiveYear Plan. Even President Xi Jinping has held frequent symposiums on various fields in many big cities in China. The th FiveYear Plan draws all efforts and close cooperation among stakeholders. People from all social sectors of life were involved in conducting indepth deliberations. The process took about a year. The plan considers the interests and demands of the entire country, various industries, regions, and institutions. The current disparity between the western and eastern regions, the rich and the poor, and cities and the countryside is still vast, which demands the th FiveYear Plan to be more elaborate and fully consider the interests of all people, narrowing down the gap. The focus of this plan is people, the ordinary people, the welfare and wellbeing of common people. Consistency is the characteristic of the th FiveYear Plan, which serves as a link between past and future, continuing the reforms, opening up, and globalization policies. The plan emphasized sustainable developments while keeping in mind the background of domestic development and drastic adjustment of a rapidly changing global order. The th FiveYear plan is based on ontheground facts and seeks regional synergy of key industrial chains and a new global layout. The global economy is slowing down and international uncertainty is intensifying. Globalization is likely to be reversed, and the international division of labor has undergone significant adjustments. Drastic deterioration of geopolitics has created many unpredictable challenges and public concerns. It is designed to build a moderately prosperous society in all respects. The formulation of the th FiveYear Plan is, under current circumstances, where the international environments are not so friendly compared to the last four decades, when the international community extended the best possible cooperation and enabling environments for rapid developments of China. The journey ahead might be an uphill task, where the US and its allies might resist Chinas peaceful rise, and contain China, or counter China. The US is increasing its influence in the region and pulling allies against China. China has emerged as an economic power and geopolitical power and has different dynamics of its role and contribution. China has the potential not only to develop its own economy but also to contribute toward the global economy. The th FiveYear Plan has to take all these aspects into serious consideration. Based on Chinas past achievements and experience, I am optimistic about the designs of the th FiveYear Plan. China is a very mature state and possesses all prerequisites to lead the global economy and stability. It is expected that the th FiveYear Plan will cater to all possible aspects of future needs. The visionary leadership of China, centuriesold wisdom and hard work of Chinese will meet the expectations of peace, stability and prosperity, globally. Zamir Ahmed Awan is a Sinologist exdiplomat, editor, analyst, nonresident fellow of the Center for China and Globalization, National University of Sciences and Technology in Islamabad, Pakistan. The opinions expressed here are those of the writer and do not necessarily represent the views of China Daily and China Daily website. If you have a specific expertise and would like to contribute to China Daily, please contact us at opinionchinadaily.com.cn , and commentchinadaily.com.cn ?