POWERCHINA helps overseas fight against epidemic
2020/11/3 17:07
Ji Xiaoyong, general manager of POWERCHINA International Group shared the experiences and practices of POWERCHINA in shaping its overseas brand image, at the  Chinese Enterprises Global Image Brand Summit held in Beijing on Nov . Ji Xiaoyong, general manager of POWERCHINA International Group, gives a speech at the  Chinese Enterprises Global Image Brand Summit held in Beijing on Nov .  Spreading antiepidemic concepts As a comprehensive construction investment group that provides planning, construction, investment and operations services for the global energy, power, water resources, environment and infrastructure sectors, POWERCHINA currently has six regional headquarters overseas. Its businesses cover  countries across the world. Moreover, POWERCHINA has  overseas agencies and more than  overseas projects. When the COVID epidemic broke out earlier this year, the lives of more than , Chinese employees and more than , local employees became its top priority. Domestic headquarters made overall arrangements and carried out local epidemic prevention and controls, to ensure the safety of Chinese and foreign employees and the internal stability of the company, Ji said. Faced with the predicament of the need for epidemic prevention and the shortage of novel coronavirusfighting equipment and gear, all the projects undertaken by POWERCHINA ensured that Chinese employees and foreign employees enjoyed the same treatment in the distribution of epidemic control and containment materials. They were both provided with additional care based on the customs and habits of different regions and the actual difficulties of local employees. Amid the epidemic, foreign employees were unable to return to project sites and their livelihoods were faced with difficulties. POWERCHINA stepped in, to provide timely assistance. Projects, such as the ChinaLaos Railway, handled long vacation procedures for local employees who could not return to the project site due to the epidemic. The wages during the vacation were paid as usual, Ji added. Promoting crosscultural integration In the overseas fight against the epidemic, Chinese and foreign cultures have huge differences in the concept of dealing with the epidemic. But POWERCHINA has successfully promoted the proven antiepidemic methods of wearing masks, reducing gatherings and maintaining social distances there. The regional headquarters of POWERCHINA in the Middle and Northeast Africa region donated maskproducing machines to the Ministry of Health of United Arab Emirates UAE and assisted in the assembly and commissioning of the equipment. The UAE media paid great attention to this and reported it many times, Ji said. In Ecuador, POWERCHINA, in the name of the president of the Chinesefunded Enterprise Chamber of Commerce, has acted. Together with Chinese companies based there, it jointly donated epidemic prevention supplies to the Ecuadorian National Emergency Committee. The Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ecuador expressed his gratitude for the action and POWERCHINA has done similar things in other countries. POWERCHINA has actively donated antiepidemic materials overseas and participated in the local antiepidemic fights, which demonstrates the overseas corporate image of POWERCHINA as a company that assumes its responsibility, Ji said. Resuming work, production in good time After epidemic prevention and control gradually became normalized, POWERCHINA actively communicated with the local governments and organized the resumption of work and production of suspended projects. To date, POWERCHINA has successively promoted the resumption of  halted overseas projects and the contract value of the unresumed projects now only accounts for  percent of the total contract value of the projects under construction. This has underscored its image of a Chinese company that performs its contracts with integrity, Ji concluded. ?