Pugilist packing a punch for charity
2020/11/3 10:09
Goran Martinovic center.  Croatians combination of philanthropy and coaching enhancing life in Suzhou Love is stronger than fists, declares Goran Martinovic, a boxing coach whose positive influence in Suzhou, Jiangsu province, extends far beyond the ring. Almost every day at  am, the former Croatian boxing champion leads his charges in morning exercisesmany of them kids, who roar as they pound the punch bags with gusto. Housed inside the Suzhou Center, the eastern citys largest shopping mall, Martinovics gym is proving a big hit with the locals, with around  people enrolled in his training courses. However, the coachs impact outside the ring is just as, if not more, impressive. Earlier this month, the yearold staged a charity boxing matchthe Suzhou Showdownwhich featured  fighters, including a yearold with autism, from various countries. Martinovic donated the events proceedstotaling , yuan about ,to a charitable organization in Suzhou, which helps severely ill children. It is the eighth time that Martinovic has hosted such an event. He first came to Suzhou in  to help his brother organize a charity boxing festival. It was a big success and we donated all the funds to a local girl with cleft lips and a cleft palate, said Martinovic, who afterward decided to move to Suzhou and continue his philanthropic work. Now more than , yuan has been raised to give hope to severely ill kids. Martinovic also donated a boxing ring to a school in Suzhou Industrial Park, and has volunteered to teach students boxing courses. In , he opened his first gym in the city, coaching whitecollar workers boxing and wrestling. He also coaches impoverished kids free of charge. He opened his second gym in the Suzhou Center last year, when he earned the Jiangsu local governments friendship awardthe highest honor the province can bestow on a foreigner. The Croatian decided he wanted to offer assistance when the coronavirus epidemic broke out in China early this year. He donated around , medical masks to Suzhou, which he calls his second home. I knew that we would get through this fight together and win, he added. After all this, everyone will pay more attention to physical health and love life more. With the epidemic under control in China, Martinovics boxing business has gradually returned to normal. He is planning to increase the size of his gym as more people discover a passion for pugilism. The past few years have seen changes, Martinovic said. Previously, Chinese parents wouldnt normally allow their kids to learn boxing, but now kids are encouraged to box and stand in the ring, to shape both their body and minds. I will continue to teach people boxing in China, making it more popular, and hope to spread more love through the sport. Xinhua