Singapore to allow entry of visitors from Chinese mainland
2020/11/2 10:16
A girl celebrating Halloween in La Paz, Bolivia, was intent on protecting herself and others against COVID. GASTON BRITOGETTY IMAGES WASHINGTONThe United States reported nearly , COVID cases on Friday, setting the highest singleday number of cases recorded worldwide, as New York introduced tougher measures to curb the spread within the state. The US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention reported , new COVID cases and , new deaths on Friday, marking two consecutive days that daily cases had exceeded ,. It was also the fifth time in a week that daily cases in the US exceeded ,. The country had more than . million confirmed COVID cases and more than , deaths by Sunday, according to a realtime count kept by Johns Hopkins University in Maryland. Confirmed deaths have also surged across the country in recent days. The rise in the number of cases was not driven by an increasing number of tests, according to the COVID Tracking Project, because the rate of increase in the number of cases far outpaced that of tests. Experts warned that hospitals could become overwhelmed as the number of coronavirus cases continues to climb. According to a new forecast from the Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation at the University of Washington, the COVID death toll in the US would reach , by Feb . The fallwinter surge should lead to a daily death toll that is approximately three times higher than now by midJanuary, the institute said in its latest forecast. Anthony Fauci, director of the US National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, reiterated concerns about the national outlook. I think it will be easily by the end of , and perhaps even into the next year, before we start having some semblances of normality, Fauci said in a panel discussion last week. New York plans to carry out a new quarantine policy that features tests both before and after ones arrival in the state, Governor Andrew Cuomo said on Saturday. If you are coming to the state of New York, within three days of arriving you must have tested negative and have proof of test within three days upon your arrival in New York that says youre negative. Cuomo called this a testing policy adopted on the advice of global health experts. Irans President Hassan Rouhani announced on Saturday the extension of restrictive measures to most Iranian cities as the COVID continued to spread across the country, the official IRNA news agency reported. On Oct  Iranian health authorities shut down major educational and cultural activities in Teheran after a resurgence of COVID infections. They also reintroduced strict compulsory use of face masks and asked people to avoid unnecessary outings. The limitations would be extended to  cities until Nov , Rouhani said. Health protocols He urged the public to help in implementing health protocols and mandates in dealing with the pandemic. Masoud Mardani, a member of a national coronavirus task force, said protective measures in highrisk areas of Iran are expected to produce positive results within the next few weeks, the Financial Tribune daily reported on Saturday. We are expecting to witness a drop in hospital visits within two weeks and a drop in the death rate in three to four weeks, Mardani was quoted as saying. Iran said , people in the country had been infected with the novel coronavirus by Saturday, of whom , had died. In Turkey, Ibrahim Kalin, a spokesman for President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, and Suleyman Soylu, the interior minister, tested positive for COVID on Saturday. Both were receiving medical care. Turkey reported , new cases of people with COVID on Saturday, bringing the tally in the country to ,. The death toll stood at ,. Brazil, which ranks third with COVID cases after the US and India, had more than . million people infected with the virus and more than , deaths. Other South American countries are also experiencing rising COVID cases, including Chile and Bolivia. Xinhua  Agencies