Singles Day shows new consumption trends
2020/11/2 9:59
An Iranian woman wears a mask and face shield, amid a rise in the coronavirus disease COVID infections, in Tehran, Iran Oct , . ? CAIRO  Iran reported on Sunday a record of  daily deaths related to the COVID, bringing the overall death toll from the pandemic in Iran to ,. Meanwhile, health officials from Lebanon and the Hamasrun Gaza Strip called for total lockdown measures to curb the pandemic. Irans health ministry said that the country registered , new infections and the overall tally reached ,. The ministry also said  out of  Iranian provinces are on red alert for a high risk of infection, while four others are on yellow alert. The Iraqi Health Ministry reported on Sunday , new COVID cases, bringing the nationwide infections to ,. The ministry also reported  new deaths and , more recovered cases in the country, raising the death toll from the infectious virus to , and the total recoveries to ,. Morocco registered , new COVID cases and the overall infections stood at ,, the health ministry said in a statement. It also reported  new deaths from the coronavirus, raising the death toll in Morocco to ,. Kuwait reported  new COVID cases and three more deaths, raising the tally of infections to , and the death toll to  in the country. In Lebanon, the caretaker Health Minister Hamad Hassan urged on Sunday local authorities to reimpose total lockdown measures in Lebanon. Hassan noted that Lebanon has been witnessing death cases for young people due to negligence by citizens or lack of awareness among families. The COVID cases in Lebanon have surpassed , while the death toll has exceeded . The Qatari health ministry on Sunday announced  new COVID infections, raising the total number of confirmed cases in the Gulf state to ,, the official Qatar News Agency QNA reported. Meanwhile,  more recovered from the virus, bringing the overall recoveries to ,, while the fatalities remained  for the third day running as no new deaths were reported, according to a ministry statement quoted by QNA. In the Gaza Strip, officials at the Hamasrun health ministry on Sunday warned that they might demand the local authorities to impose a full lockdown on the Palestinian enclave because of the rapid increase in the number of people infected with the novel coronavirus. Meanwhile, the Ramallahbased Palestinian health ministry recorded  new cases infected with COVID,  of them in the Gaza Strip, bringing the total number of infections to ,. In Israel, human trials of a selfdeveloped vaccine kicked off on Sunday. The trials, made in two hospitals, will see  more volunteers be injected with a vaccine called BriLife this month. The vaccine was created by the Israeli Institute of Biological Research. Israels Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said that the true exit from the coronavirus crisis is in the development of vaccines. Therefore, this is a very important day, which gives a shot of encouragement.