UK tourism body warns of job losses in lockdown
2021/11/16 17:44
People wearing face masks walk on a street in London, Britain, on Oct , .  Up to , jobs in the travel and tourism sector in the United Kingdom could be lost if COVID related travel restrictions are reimposed this winter, it has been reported. According to new data from the World Travel and Tourism Council, or WTTC, which represents the global private travel and tourism sector, any new restrictions, such as travellers requiring a booster jab before going overseas, could further damage an already embattled industry. The global tourism body fears that any measures introduced could make the UK a less attractive travel destination which would, in turn, make the UK less competitive. The figures were revealed on Monday during the  Tourism Alliance Conference, a major event where industry leaders discussed how to rebuild Britains travel and tourism industry. The WTTCs concerns come amid reported government plans to bring back testing and quarantine for travellers who refuse the booster vaccine. Earlier this month, official guidance was updated to say the government is reviewing the implications and requirements of boosters for international travel certification and looking at whether and how booster vaccinations could be included in the National Health Service COVID pass for travel. The WTTC had said around  percent of the UK population had received the booster jab, which until Monday had only been available to the overs. The group said this represents a minority of those able to travel, and such a move would leave millions unable to go abroad, with a huge economic impact. If widescale restrictions, such as limiting travel only to those with the booster jab, were enforced in , more than half a million jobs could be at stake next year, the WTTC said. Julia Simpson, WTTC president and CEO said The very real prospect of more than , people losing their jobs across the UK travel and tourism sector because of unnecessary travel restrictions is a huge concern to the WTTC. We cannot afford to let all the hardearned progress weve made this year slide back and be reversed, she said. On Monday, the government announced all overs will now be offered a third vaccine dose. Research by the WTTC also revealed the government could see up to . billion pounds . billion wiped from the sectors contribution to the economy before the end of  if severe travel restrictions come back into force. If stricter restrictions remain in place for much of next year, the WTTC said this could result in a loss of up to . billion pounds to the UK economy.