. gala to boost spending
2020/11/2 8:12
MA XUEJINGCHINA DAILY China and Equatorial Guinea should use the th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic ties as an opportunity to deepen cooperation and friendship While the world has seen many twists and turns since the beginning of this year, China and Equatorial Guinea have shared weal and woe in combating the novel coronavirus while marking the th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic ties this year. After the novel coronavirus epidemic broke out, Equatorial Guinean President Teodoro Obiang Nguema Mbasogo sent a letter to Chinese President Xi Jinping offering his condolences for the COVID deaths and assisted with  million to boost Chinas fight against the outbreak. People from all walks of life in Equatorial Guinea, including officials and students, expressed firm support for China in various ways. Many Equatorial Guinean students studying in China posted messages such as China is our second hometown. The Equatorial Guinean and Chinese people will stand together to overcome the difficulties. Come on, China! on social networking sites. The Chinese government launched President Xis initiative of building a global community of health for all by donating several batches of goods to contain the virus, such as face masks, ventilators, personal protective equipment and test kits, to Equatorial Guinea, while sharing Chinas experiences in controlling the outbreak in a timely manner. China has also sent a team of health workers, virologists and epidemiologists to carry out extensive and indepth exchanges with related departments and institutions of Equatorial Guinea. The Equatorial Guinean side thanked China for its help, saying The arrival of the Chinese medical expert team brought the light of hope to Equatorial Guinea. While the Chinese medical team continues to fulfill its tasks, Chinese nongovernmental organizations, Chinafunded enterprises, overseas Chinese associations and the Red Cross Society of China have provided supplies and assistance for the people of Equatorial Guinea. Moreover, a Chinese hospital and an Equatorial Guinean hospital have established an antipandemic cooperation mechanism, and work on the new Niefang Hospital in the African country will start later this year with Chinas assistance. The pandemic has strengthened the solidarity, friendship and mutual trust developed between the two countries peoples over the past  years. In May , when a devastating earthquake hit Wenchuan in Southwest Chinas Sichuan province, President Obiang sent the Equatorial Guinean foreign minister to China, and provided assistance of  million euros . million to the relief fund. In , the establishment of the ChinaEquatorial Guinea Friendship Primary School with assistance from the government of Equatorial Guinea was completed in Jinping county, Southwest Chinas Yunnan province. Since the establishment of diplomatic ties between the two countries in , China has sent  batches of medical teams to Equatorial Guinea that have treated more than  million patients. And the NkueMongomo Road built with Chinese help nearly half a century ago is still a major traffic road in Equatorial Guinea. Over the past  years, power stations, roads, reservoirs, schools, hospitals, farms, and radio and TV stations built with Chinas support have contributed to the economic and social development of Equatorial Guinea. Many Equatorial Guinean students have come to China for studies and training on scholarships provided by the Chinese government. More than , students have studied the Chinese language at the Confucius Institute in the National University of Equatorial Guinea. The peoples of the two countries have seen the friendship between China and Equatorial Guinea growing over the past five decades, thanks to their hard work and the efforts of their leaders. The strong friendship between the two countries has weathered the changes in the international landscape, with their winwin cooperation setting an example of SouthSouth cooperation and equal exchanges between countries of different sizes. Looking into the future, China and Equatorial Guinea will take the th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations as an opportunity to promote steady and longterm friendship and cooperation for the next five decades. The two countries will implement the plans on which their leaders have reached consensuses, increase peopletopeople exchanges in various fields, deepen political mutual trust and continue to support each other on common issues and those that concern their core interests. Also, the two sides will strengthen cooperation under the Belt and Road Initiative, expedite the launch of agreements reached during the Forum on ChinaAfrica Cooperation summit in Beijing in , and act in line with the African Unions Agenda  and the Horizon  Plan of Equatorial Guinea to boost comprehensive cooperation. China will further expand cooperation with Equatorial Guinea. And while advancing progress in projects such as the new Niefang Hospital and the water supply systems in Malabo, China will promote the role of demonstration farms and vocational schools built with its assistance. Efforts will also be made to unleash the full potential of sectors such as public healthcare, small and mediumsized enterprises, agriculture and fishery, and education and training in Equatorial Guinea to diversify its economic growth channels, transform it into an emerging economy and deliver more tangible results to the peoples of the two countries through further cooperation. China will focus on more efficient coordination with other countries under multilateral frameworks, strengthening cooperation with other countries and international organizations, promoting consultation and collaboration for shared benefits, and facilitating global cooperation in order to maintain peace, safeguard security, protect the environment and promote multilateralism. More importantly, China will work with the international community to remain committed to protecting the common interests of developing countries, coping with global threats and challenges, and building a community with a shared future for humankind. The author is the Chinese ambassador to Equatorial Guinea. The author contributed this article to China Watch, a think tank powered by China Daily. The views do not necessarily reflect those of China Daily.