Wall Street notches biggest weekly loss since March as COVID cases spiral
2020/11/1 7:27
A man wears a protective mask as he walks on Wall Street during the coronavirus outbreak in New York City, New York, US, March , .  NEW YORK  Wall Streets major averages pulled back considerably in the week as investors worried that soaring COVID infections could slow down economic recovery. For the week ending Friday, the Dow fell . percent, the SP  . percent and the Nasdaq . percent. The major averages had their worst oneweek performance since March. The SP US Listed China  index, which is designed to track the performance of the  largest Chinese companies listed on US exchanges by total market cap, logged a weekly rise of . percent. The moves came as the pandemic rages on and some European countries began to implement new restrictions. COVID cases and hospitalizations are surging across the United States and Europe. The stock market appears to be taking note, analysts at Zacks Investment Management, said in a note Saturday. The daily new cases have regularly surpassed , recently in the United States. The country has reported more than . million in total infections with the death toll surpassing , as of Saturday afternoon, showed a tally by Johns Hopkins University. The threat of another economic lockdown is low, but cities with spiraling hospitalization rates may need to pursue more targeted restrictions and closures. The stock market is likely to respond adversely to any planned economic restrictions, Zacks analysts added. In addition to surging COVID cases, investors were keeping a watchful eye on the upcoming election and what the results could mean for the markets. Elections have consequences, but the defeat of the pandemic and subsequent economic recovery will continue to be one of the main market drivers in any election outcome, said analysts at UBS. On the data front, US economic activity in the third quarter grew at an annual rate of . percent after a sharp contraction in the previous quarter, the US Commerce Department reported Thursday. The reading exceeded the percent estimate from economists surveyed by Dow Jones. The rebound came after the economy plunged at a revised annual rate of . percent in the second quarter amid mounting COVID fallout, which has been the largest decline since the US government began keeping records in . The increase in third quarter GDP reflected continued efforts to reopen businesses and resume activities that were postponed or restricted due to COVID, according to the advance estimate released by the departments Bureau of Economic Analysis. The number of initial jobless claims in the United States fell to , last week, as the labor market continued to recover at a slowing pace, the Labor Department reported on Thursday. In the week ending Oct , the number of Americans filing for unemployment benefits decreased by , from the previous weeks upwardly revised level of ,, showed the report. On other economic front, US personal consumption expenditures increased . percent in September and personal income rose . percent, the Commerce Department reported Friday. US Consumer Confidence Index stood at . in October, down from . in September, as Americans assessment of current conditions improved while expectations declined, New Yorkbased The Conference Board reported on Tuesday. There is little to suggest that consumers foresee the economy gaining momentum in the final months of , especially with COVID cases on the rise and unemployment still high, said Lynn Franco, senior director of Economic Indicators at The Conference Board.