US hits record high singleday total as COVID cases surpass  mln
2020/10/31 16:21
Pedestrians walk on a square in New York, the United States, Oct , .  WASHINGTON  The United States reported over , COVID cases Thursday, the record high singleday total since the onset of the pandemic in the country. Total cases surpassed  million on Friday. It took only  days for the country to add one million new cases from  million to  million, the fastest rate since the pandemic began. Cases and deaths have skyrocketed across the United States in recent days. The US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention CDC reported , new COVID cases and , new deaths on Thursday, marking the fourth time in a week that daily cases topped ,. Nine states reported their record high singleday of new cases ever on Thursday, including Illinois, Indiana, Maine, Michigan, Minnesota, New Mexico, North Carolina, North Dakota and Ohio. The sevenday average case count has been on a sharp rise recently, standing at nearly ,, CDC data show. More data are revealing the critical resurgence of the pandemic. The COVID Tracking Project on Thursday reported a new US record of more than , infections recorded this week. Twentyfive states have set a new record for cases in the last two weeks, including  states with record highs since last Wednesday. According to the tracking project, hospitalizations nationally have risen to an average of almost , people, up from around , at the beginning of the month. The surge in cases was not driven by an increasing number of tests, according to the project. The country reported a record number of tests at . million, but case growth, which is  percent, far outpaced test growth, which is  percent. Since Oct. , the sevenday average for new cases has risen  percent, while tests are only up  percent in the same period. Meanwhile, the number of patients currently hospitalized with COVID has risen  percent in October thus far, according to the tracking project. This is the hardest point in this pandemic right now  the next two months, Scott Gottlieb, former commissioner of the US Food and Drug Administration, said during an interview with CNBC on Thursday. We cant give up our guard right now. Gottlieb warned the United States will cross the , cases per day threshold sometime in the next couple of weeks  or maybe even this week. He added that this is due to the publics behavior and lack of caution. The reality is that I think were not going to start to see a slowdown in the pandemic until you see consumer behavior change, and until you see mobility data start to decline. Thats been the lesson of the past surges in the virus. According to the new forecast from the Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation IHME at the University of Washington, it is most likely that by midJanuary, , Americans will be dying every day from COVID, which is about three times the current rate at around  deaths per day. The death toll would reach , by Feb. , according to the projection. If states do not react to rising numbers by reimposing mandates, cumulative deaths could reach , by the same date, the IHME said in a statement. Hospital systems, particularly ICUs, are expected to be under extreme stress in December and January in  states, said the IHME. Scaling up mask wearing can delay the need for further social distancing mandates and save , lives by February . Anthony Fauci, director of the US National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, reiterated caution on the nations outlook. I think it will be easily by the end of , and perhaps even into the next year, before we start having some semblances of normality, Fauci said during a panel discussion earlier this week. The United States has recorded more than ,, confirmed COVID cases and over , deaths as of Friday afternoon, according to the realtime count kept by Johns Hopkins University.