Celebrating Mexicos Day of the Dead in China
2020/10/30 16:15
A scene from Coco, a Pixar animated feature inspired from the Day of the Dead. .com Like in many other cultures, death, to some extent, is a taboo in Chinese culture that can easily stir up peoples fears. But for Mexicans, death is just as worth celebrating as life. The Day of the Dead Da de Muertos is a Mexican festival that celebrates the temporary return of the dead to Earth with food, music, dance, and parades. Under the auspices of the Mexican embassy in China, a medley of celebrations, including art exhibits, film screenings and markets, will grace major Chinese cities over the upcoming weekend to mark this years Day of the Dead. For both Chinese and Mexican people, it is of great importance to honor the lives of our ancestors, and Day of the Dead is Mexicos most important tradition, said Tania Lara, cultural attache with the Mexican embassy in China. Held on Nov  and  each year, Day of the Dead stretches back some , years. Ancient indigenous Mexican peoples considered the dead, kept alive in memory and spirit, were still members of the community and mourning them was disrespectful. Its believed that during Day of the Dead, the deceased awaken from their eternal sleep to reunite with their loved ones by paying a short visit back to Earth. This year people in Beijing can head to the CHAO Art Center in Sanlitun to appreciate an elaborately decorated altar, a work by Mexican visual artist Betsabee Romero, which, as the artist revealed, is dedicated to all people who have lost lives for the same reasons around the world. Two posters of the calavera skull, part of Color Calavera by Mexican artist Adrian Edgar. Photo provided to chinadaily.com.cn An important component of the holiday celebrations, the altar, usually decorated with flower petals, candles and offerings, is placed in each home in Mexico to facilitate the return of the souls. Along with the altar, an art exhibit comprising  largesized posters titled Color Calavera by artist Adrian Edgar is on view. The calavera, literally skull in English, is a popular symbol of the tradition alongside the calaca skeleton. They appear in sweets, as parade masks and as dolls during the holiday. Drawing inspiration from the Day of the Dead tradition, the artist instilled life and personalities in the skulls by rendering them in different color combinations. Over the weekend, four Mexican short films C Down to the Bones, The Fisherman, Ramona, and Rain in the Eyes C all inspired by the tradition will be screened at the center, free to the public. Posters of The Fisherman, Rain in the Eyes, and Ramona C three of the four short films to be screened over the weekend at the CHAO Art Center in Beijing.  WeChat Account of CHAO Art Center Tacos  WeChat Account of Pebbles Aside from the celebrations happening at the art center, Mexican restaurant Moji will organize a mix of events to enable Beijingers to explore more about the tradition at Liangmaqiaos Grand Summit. An altar and an exhibit showcasing traditional Mexican paintings will be on view until Nov . In addition, a market featuring Mexican food, drinks, and handicrafts, and a makeup party on Saturday night will add more sparkle to the holiday. To spice up the Day of the Dead festivities in China, Lara said that Mexican restaurants around the country are also honoring this tradition by offering holiday specials. For example, Mexican restaurant El Barrio in downtown Beijing will liven up its venue with live Mariachi music, a type of traditional Mexican folk music that is often played on festive occasions. Pebbles, another Mexican restaurant in Beijing, will offer special prices for its tacos, drinks, and desserts. In addition, customers can have their faces painted for free at the restaurant on Saturday. A scene from? Coco features the Land of the Dead?.com In the meantime, Dead of the Dead altars will be displayed at the consulates general of Mexico in Shanghai and Guangzhou for the Chinese public to foster a deeper understanding of this essential tradition in the Mexican culture. Celebrations of Day of the Dead are just getting more attention and relevance in China as the interest of Chinese people to learn and experience international cultures grow, Lara noted. Laras observation is supported by the fact that Mexico has become the top destination of Chinese tourists in Latin America. Furthermore, captivated by the  Pixar hit Coco, an Oscarwinning animated feature inspired by and set against the Day of the Dead, an increasing number of Chinese Cocolovers are flying to the country during this holiday so as to experience the millenniaold tradition at its most authentic. Hundreds of travelogues would pop up after entering Day of the Dead in the search box of qyer.com.cn, a popular travel guide website in China. Many users posted their Day of the Dead parade experiences in Mexican city Guanajuato, whose brightly colored buildings and historic center were the inspiration behind the Land of the Dead that is seen throughout most of Coco. A screenshot features travelogues on Day of the Dead from travel guide website qyer.com. .com After visiting so many carnivals and festivals around the world, I would call the Day of the Dead the most fun of them, raved travel blogger JOJO Dainiyoushijie in his  travelogue on Mafengwo, a Beijingbased travel platform. The bloggers vivid, photoheavy recount of his Day of the Dead experiences in Mexico City garnered nearly , hits and thousands of comments. Many expressed an interest in visiting Mexico to experience this unique tradition thats so much different from Chinas traditions about death. The Coco effect has also inspired some Chinese travel agencies to organize trips to the Latin American country around the Day of the Dead holiday. For instance, renyou, a Beijingbased travel agency, arranges a day trip to Mexico every year around the holiday. In , UNESCO recognized the significance of the Day of the Dead by adding this Mexican tradition to its list of Intangible Cultural Heritage of Humanity. To catch the film screenings at the CHAO Art Center, registration is required through the centers official WeChat account. Screening times Oct   Nov    If you go free entry Oct Nov  CHAO F Plaza, No.  Workers Stadium East Road, Chaoyang District, Beijing. CHAO  Poster for the Mexican Cultural Experience weekend held from Oct Nov  at the CHAO Art Center in Beijing Photo provided to chinadaily.com.cn