Kenya OKs Sinopharm vaccines use, boosting hope
2021/9/18 10:50
Robert Durst in his wheelchair looks at people in the courtroom as he appears in an Inglewood courtroom with his attorneys for closing arguments in his murder trial at the Inglewood Courthouse in California, US, Sept , .  INGLEWOOD, Calif.  A Los Angeles jury convicted Robert Durst on Friday of murdering his best friend  years ago, a case that took on new life after the New York real estate heir participated in a documentary that connected him to the slaying that was linked to his wifes  disappearance. Durst, , was not in court for the verdict from the jury that deliberated about seven hours over three days. He was in isolation at a jail because he was exposed to someone with novel coronavirus. Durst, who faces a mandatory term of life in prison without parole when sentenced Oct , was convicted of the firstdegree murder of Susan Berman. She was shot at pointblank range in the back of the head in her Los Angeles home in December  as she was prepared to tell police how she helped cover up his wifes killing. Berman, the daughter of a Las Vegas mobster, was Dursts longtime confidante who told friends she provided a phony alibi for him after his wife vanished. Prosecutors painted a portrait of a rich narcissist who didnt think the laws applied to him and ruthlessly disposed of people who stood in his way. They interlaced evidence of Bermans killing with Kathie Dursts suspected death and the  killing of a tenant in a Texas flophouse where Robert Durst holed up while on the run from New York authorities. Bob Durst has been around a lot of years, and hes been able to commit a lot of horrific crimes. We just feel really gratified that hes been held accountable, Deputy District Attorney John Lewin said. Lewin met with jurors after the verdict and said they thought prosecutors had proven Durst had killed his wife and had murdered both Berman and his Texas neighbor in an effort to escape justice. He said jurors did not find Durst credible as a witness. Hes a narcissistic psychopath. He killed his wife and then he had to keep killing to cover it up, Lewin said. Lewin said he hoped Durst understands what its like to be held accountable  even if it took  years. Considering what hes done, he got a lot more of a life that he was entitled to, the prosecutor said. Durst was arrested in  while hiding out in a New Orleans hotel on the eve of the airing of the final episode of The Jinx The Life and Deaths of Robert Durst, in which he was confronted with incriminating evidence and made what prosecutors said was a confession. Durst could be heard muttering to himself on a live microphone in a bathroom There it is. Youre caught. Dursts decision to testify in his own defense  hoping for a repeat of his acquittal in the Texas killing  backfired as he was forced to admit lying under oath, made damning admissions and had his credibility destroyed when questioned by the prosecutor. Defense lawyer David Chesnoff said Friday they believed there was substantial reasonable doubt and were disappointed in the verdict. He said Durst would pursue all avenues of appeal. The conviction marks a victory for authorities who have sought to put Durst behind bars for murder in three states. Durst was never charged in the disappearance of his wife, who has never been found, and he was acquitted of murder in Galveston, Texas, where he admitted dismembering the victims body and tossing it out to sea. The story of Durst, the estranged scion of a New York real estate developer, has been fodder for New York tabloids since his wife vanished. He provided plot twists so numerous that Hollywood couldnt resist making a feature film about his life that eventually led to the documentary and discovery of new evidence in Bermans slaying. Durst ran from the law multiple times, disguised as a mute woman in Texas and staying under an alias at a New Orleans hotel with a shoulderstohead latex mask for a presumed getaway. He jumped bail in Texas and was arrested after shoplifting a chicken sandwich in Pennsylvania, despite having , in cash  along with two handguns  in his rental car. He later quipped that he was the worst fugitive the world has ever met. Durst escaped close scrutiny from investigators when his wife disappeared. But his troubles resurfaced in late  when New York authorities reopened the case. His lawyer told him to be prepared to be charged in the case, and he fled a life of luxury to Galveston, Texas, where he rented a cheap apartment as Dorothy Ciner, a woman he pretended couldnt speak. He eventually dropped the disguise after mishaps that included walking into a mens restroom and igniting his wig at a bar while lighting a cigarette. Just before Christmas, he testified that he traveled to LA to visit Berman for a staycation with plans to see some of the tourist sites. Durst, who had long denied ever being in LA at the time of Bermans death, testified at trial that he found her dead on a bedroom floor when he arrived. Berman, a writer who had been friends with Durst since they were students at the University of California, Los Angeles, had serious financial problems at the time. Durst had given her ,, and prosecutors suggested she was trying to leverage more money from him by telling him she was going to speak with the cops. Nine months after her death, Durst killed his Galveston neighbor Morris Black, in what he said was either an accident or selfdefense. Durst said he found Black, who he had become friends with, in his apartment holding Dursts .caliber pistol. Durst was acquitted after testifying the yearold was killed in a struggle for the gun. Durst then chopped up Blacks body and tossed it out to sea. He was convicted of destroying evidence for discarding the body parts. After the trial and the ghastly evidence of the dismemberment, Durst found he was a pariah, he said. Despite an estimated  million fortune, he was turned away by multiple condominium associations and said the Los Angeles County Museum of Art wouldnt take his money unless he donated anonymously. Durst thought a  feature film based on his life, All Good Things, starring Ryan Gosling as him and Kirsten Dunst as Kathie, had been largely accurate and painted a sympathetic portrait, despite implicating him in three killings. He only objected that he was depicted killing his dog  something he would never do. He reached out to the filmmaker and agreed to sit for lengthy interviews for a documentary. He encouraged his friends to do the same and gave the filmmakers access to boxes of his records. He came to deeply regret his decision after The Jinx aired on HBO in , calling it a very, very, very big mistake. The documentary filmmakers discovered a crucial piece of evidence that connected him to an anonymous note sent to police directing them to Bermans lifeless body. Durst, who was so confident he couldnt be connected to the note, told filmmakers only the killer could have written the note. Filmmakers confronted him with a letter he sent Berman a year earlier. The handwriting was identical and Beverly Hills was misspelled as Beverley on both. He couldnt tell the two apart. The gotcha moment provided the climax of the movie as Durst stepped off camera and muttered to himself on a live microphone in the bathroom Killed them all, of course. During  days of testimony that was so punishing Judge Mark Windham called it devastating, Durst denied killing his wife and Berman, though he said he would lie if he did. He tried to explain away the note and what prosecutors said was a confession during an unguarded moment. For the first time, Durst admitted on the witness stand that he sent the note and had been in Los Angeles at the time of Bermans death. Durst said he sent the note because he wanted Berman to be found but didnt want anyone to know he had been there because it would look suspicious. He acknowledged that even he had difficulty imagining he could have written the note without killing Berman. Its very difficult to believe, to accept, that I wrote the letter and did not kill Susan Berman, Durst testified. A prosecutor said it was one of the truest things Durst said amid a ton of lies. Agencies via Xinhua