Mexican art shines at Beijing design fest
2020/10/30 10:32
A staff member displays samples of the COVID inactivated vaccine at Sinovac Biotech Ltd, in Beijing, March , .  For as long as I can remember I have been engaged in a practice many would consider masochistic. Get those images out of your head, I dont mean that. Or that. No, my selfdefeating habit is all too mundane to the casual observer I read China stories in the Western media. Its not as bad as it sounds. Over time, you build up a sort of immunity to the indignation that is the gut reaction to any of these pieces. Eventually you can even stop rolling your eyes. Sadly, that doesnt last. Every so often you encounter a headline so ignorant and offensive it brings all that old fury back, roaring forth in a tsunami of rage and ruining years of therapy. The idiocy in question, found in an outlet I wont name Can we trust Chinese COVID science? I dont mind sharing something personal here, dear reader. After seeing that headline I had a few very rude things to say about this publication and its author. They are, alas, unprintable. But let me cool down for a moment and take that question seriously, even though it deserves no such treatment. Where would we be without Chinese COVID science? Well, first of all, we wouldnt have learned about the virus in late December. Doctors and scientists in Wuhan noticed pneumonialike symptoms in patients and informed local health authorities, sending crucial details up the chain and setting the overall epidemic response in motion. The WHO also wouldnt have been informed of a pneumonia of unknown cause on Dec , when those same authorities shared their preliminary findings. The US Centers for Disease Control also wouldnt have been told the same thing on Jan   though given how the US still waited months to take real action, maybe we should put that data point aside. The genetic sequence of the virus  the foundation of all treatment, testing and vaccine work  wouldnt have been made public record. After  hours of nearconstant work, Shanghai scientists shared the full genome of COVID with the world, uploading the sequence to the open access Genbank database on Jan . Universal adoption of maskwearing wouldnt have happened either. Both the US CDC and World Health Organization were slow to encourage the practice, instead saying only sick people needed respiratory masks in the early weeks of the pandemic. Chinas National Health Commission was the only major health authority to consistently stress the importance of masks for the entire population, healthy or otherwise. So thats another obvious best practice gone if we ignore Chinese science  but judging by the refusal by some in the US to wear masks, this isnt even wholly hypothetical. Mass testing and contact tracing is another Chinese policy which has been proven to work in containing the virus. Adapted from the countrys earlier response to the SARS epidemic, a network of temperature checks, fever clinics and widespread nucleic acid tests helped choke out the virus and keep it localized. You dont need to look too far to see an example of how essential these methods are the US steadfastly ignored Chinas blueprint and now has more cases and deaths than anywhere else in the world. And what of that elusive COVID vaccine? China currently has four in the third stage of clinical trials, and is likely to be the first country to have a viable inoculation ready for mass production. Will the skeptics refuse potentially lifesaving treatment just to avoid giving China any credit? The answer to that question might be yes, considering how blinkered some are in their antiChina psychoses. Some in the West, eager to downplay any positive examples from China, point to other Asian countries engaged in similar practices. But those places had weeks or months to prepare, and modeled much of their response on what Chinese health officials were sharing with them. Ignoring Chinas experience would force the rest of the world to develop these ideas independently, buying time with prolonged human suffering. Maybe thats what these journalists want. After all, theres little more important to them than scoring points against a country they see as a mortal enemy. The shock and surprise with which they greeted Chinas triumph over the virus betrayed their real sympathies. Rather than express relief that a country of over a billion people stemmed the tide of outbreak and prevented new cases and deaths, they could barely contain their disappointment. To them, the virus was an opportunity to castigate Chinas system and prove Western capitalist democracy as a superior method of governance. That opportunity has blown up in their faces. Those headlines from January and February arrogantly declaring democracies are better at fighting outbreaks are now the stuff of tragedy, as infection and death tolls rise in countries that previously exulted over Chinas struggles. Commentators who gleefully predicted Chinas collapse  practically fantasizing about mountains of corpses all the while  are now backpedaling, crafting absurd arguments to show they were right all along. Hence the bizarre headline which started this little thought experiment. In the absence of a credible alternative to Chinas pandemic control methods  and by extension Chinas system  all these cynics can do is poke holes in the countrys success by spreading fear, uncertainty and doubt. Because their own governments failed so spectacularly, their only option is to tear down countries that have returned to relative normalcy. Their envy and hatred is palpable. The fact is we already know the answer to that headlines insipid question. Weve known it since infection counts began dropping in March. By now, whatever doubts were lingering then should be long gone. If nothing else, the fact you can visit a restaurant or bar in China and see it full of contented patrons shows people here trust their countrys science. I certainly do, and wont be returning home to visit until I can be sure things in the US have improved. Judging by the present state of affairs, my guess is thatll be sometime in . So go ahead, oh wise and clever commentators. Dont trust Chinese science. Its your right. But when the rest of the world is back to normal thanks to a Chinese vaccine, youd better stick to your principles and stay inside. The author is a US writer with China Daily. The opinions expressed here are those of the writer and do not represent the views of China Daily and China Daily website. If you have a specific expertise and would like to contribute to China Daily, please contact us at opinionchinadaily.com.cn, and commentchinadaily.com.cn