US hits record high average daily COVID cases
2020/10/30 9:11
A man wears a mask as he walks past mannequins wearing masks in a retail shopping area during the outbreak of the coronavirus disease COVID in Encinitas, California, US, July , .  WASHINGTON  The United States hit a record high average daily COVID cases of over , on Wednesday, setting a new high since the onset of the pandemic in the country, according to the data of the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention CDC updated on Thursday. The CDC has reported , new cases on Wednesday, the third time the number hit over , over the past week, the CDC data showed. The day average daily cases in the country have been on a rise since early September, surpassing , since Oct . The country is adding an average of , new COVID cases to the national total as of Thursday. Altogether  states are reporting at least  percent more cases compared to the week before, according to CNN report. As daily new cases skyrocket, hospitalizations are rising, too, and deaths, which lag furthest behind those other indicators, are ticking up. Daily death count hit nearly , on Wednesday, with an average count at about  per day, CDC data showed. Currently there are , hospitalized COVID cases nationwide, according to latest figure of The COVID Tracking Project. In the Midwest, residents are being impacted by the rising cases with spiking rates of hospitalizations. Indiana and Wisconsin reported their peak levels of coronavirus hospitalizations. Kansas saw the most ICU hospitalizations of the virus in one day, the same day the state surpassed , deaths since the pandemic began, according to CNN report. Anthony Fauci, director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, said Wednesday he supports a national mask mandate as the weather continues to grow colder. Were going to have many more hospitalizations and that will inevitably lead to more deaths. So, this is an untenable situation. Thats the reason why I say we have got to do these things, Fauci said. As COVID cases continue to jump during the fall, Fauci said there is little chance of normalcy on the horizon. I think it will be easily by the end of , and perhaps even into the next year, before we start having some semblances of normality, Fauci told a panel discussion earlier this week.