Beijing leads again in global economic recovery
2020/10/30 8:27
Tourists visit Badachu Park decorated with red lanterns in Beijing, on Oct , .  Just as China led the world in economic recovery in the aftermath of the  global financial crisis, it is playing a similar role today. Its postCOVID economic rebound is gathering momentum even as the developed world remains on shaky ground. Unfortunately, this is a bitter pill for many to swallowespecially in the United States, where demonization of China has reached epic proportions. The two crises are, of course, different. Wall Street was ground zero for the  crisis, while the COVID pandemic was first reported in China in Wuhan, Hubei province. But in both cases, Chinas crisisresponse strategy was far more effective than that used by the US. In the five years following the  crisis, Chinas annual real GDP growth averaged . percent on purchasing power parity. While that was slower than the blistering and unsustainable . percent average pace of the five previous years, it was four times the US economys anemic . percent average annual growth over the postcrisis  period. Chinas pandemic response hints at a comparable outcome in the years ahead. The GDP growth in the third quarter of  suggests a rapid return to the preCOVID trend. The . percent yearonyear figure for real GDP growth does not convey a full sense of the selfsustaining recovery that is now emerging in China. Measuring economic growth on a sequential quarterly basis and converting those comparisons to annual ratesthe preferred construct of US statisticians and policymakersprovides a much cleaner sense of realtime shifts in the underlying momentum of any economy. On that basis, Chinas real GDP rose at an  percent sequential annual rate in the third quarter, following a  percent postlockdown surge in the second quarter. The comparison with the US is noteworthy. Both economies experienced comparable contractions during their respective lockdowns, which came one quarter later for the US. Chinas . percent sequential annualized contraction in the first quarter was almost the same as the US . percent in the second quarter. Based on incoming highfrequency monthly data, the socalled GDPNow estimate of the Atlanta Federal Reserve puts the US thirdquarter sequential real GDP growth at about  percent. While that is a welcome and marked turnaround from the record decline during the lockdown, it is about  percentage points short of Chinas postlockdown rebound and still leaves the US economy about  percent below its peak of late . Postlockdown rebounds are not the real story, however. They are akin to the snapback of a stretched rubber bandor in statistical terms, the arithmetical result of restarting an economy that has just been subjected to an unprecedented sudden stop. The true test comes after the snapback, and thats where Chinas strategy has its greatest advantage. Chinas response to COVID borrowed a page from its playbook in , when it ringfenced its financial markets from the toxic fallout of the subprime crisis. The objective back then was clear from the start address the source of the shock itself, rather than the collateral damage the shock caused. The  trillion yuan . billion fiscal stimulus of  worked only because China had taken measures to insulate its markets from a virulent financial contagion. Chinas approach today is similar first, insulate its citizens from a virulent pathogen with strict publichealth measures aimed at containing and mitigating the spread of COVID, and only then make judicious use of monetary and fiscal policy to reinforce the postlockdown snapback. This is very different from the approach taken in the US, where the postlockdown debate is more about using monetary and fiscal policies as frontline instruments of economic liberation, rather than relying on disciplined publichealth measures aimed at virus containment. This underscores the sharp contrast between Beijings COVIDfirst strategy and Washingtons America First approach. In China, unlike the US, there is no political and public resistance to face masks, social distancing, and aggressive testing as requisite norms of the COVID era. No wonder the US is in the midst of its third serious wave of infection while China continues to exercise prompt and effective control over new outbreaks. Earlier this autumn, for example, some  million people in Qingdao, Shandong province, were tested in just five days after a relatively small outbreak affecting fewer than  residents. By contrast, US President Donald Trump wears his own experience with COVID infection as some perverse badge of courage, rather than as a warning of what may lie ahead. In this context, Chinas impressive third quarter GDP results stand in even sharper contrast to the precarious postlockdown state of the US economy. The ongoing distress in the US labor marketunemployment insurance claims remained above , on a fourweek moving average through midOctober, and the . percent national unemployment rate in September was still more than double its prepandemic . percent levelleaves the US consumerled economy highly vulnerable to a setback. The confluence of a new COVID wave with the onagain, offagain political debate over another fiscal relief package has effectively neutralized the animal spirits that have long powered economic recovery in the US. While Chinas . percent sequential annualized growth in the third quarter of this year builds effectively on its postlockdown snapback, some lingering signs of weakness are evident in several key segments of consumer services, mainly travel, leisure, and entertainment. Human nature is the same everywhere, with fear and caution enduring even in countries where aggressive containment measures are working. For those unwilling to focus on containment, like the US, the long shadow of COVID speaks volumes about the perils of a doubledip recession. That is exactly what has happened in the aftermath of eight of the last  US recessions. The contrast with Chinas selfsustaining recovery couldnt be more striking. The author is a faculty member at Yale University and the author of Unbalanced The Codependency of America and China. Project Syndicate The views dont necessarily reflect those of China Daily.