Bands in need of aid
2020/10/30 7:12
Everybody stand up! Lets welcome Shumking Mansion! shouts Chris B of The Underground, throwing her arms wide open. The local psychedelic quartet Shumking Mansion appears on the screens of digital devices, playing to audiences sitting in the comfort of their homes. Live concerts were ruled out when the pandemic arrived in Hong Kong in January end. Since then, The Underground, a platform serving grassroots bands in Hong Kong for over a decade, is curating virtual concerts instead. At their online concert in September, two Hong Kong bands  Andy Is Typing and Shumking Mansion  performed backtoback on YouTube. The songs were interspersed by prerecorded clips in which different musicians shared their experiences of participating in The Undergroundhosted events. The Underground is only one among Hong Kongs several music concert platforms to move their live shows online in the wake of the pandemic. Leading music promoter Wow and Flutter rolled out their proshot weekly LiveHome series as early as February. Singersongwriters like Tomii Chan, William Elvin, and Marstn have hosted their own livestreaming concerts on various social media platforms. Raising the moolah Although most online music concerts are free to access, efforts are on to find avenues of monetizing some of these. Rather than charging fans for digital entry, The Underground is encouraging viewers to make donations to support the virtual concerts. With so many free shows available on the internet, its hard to ask people to pay. Therere online concerts that charge which rarely get discussed and people are not interested in seeing them, says Chris B. So were inviting people to come and enjoy good music, and if you want to help out by donating, thats even better. So far live music and COVID have been mutually exclusive, says Keith Goodman, coowner of The Wanch, Hong Kongs oldest live music venue. Its technically possible to move the H Festival online, he says, referring to the free annual live music festival hosted by The Wanch. But bands want to play to a packed venue and audiences want to connect to the bands. Given the myriad distractions online and the fact that virtual shows can be switched on and off at will, he doubts if viewers would commit to watching grassroots artists in numbers comparable to what a music venue might draw in regular times. Hence, the possibility of making any money from such events is rather slim. Desperate to go live It is of course another matter that concerts presented in a digital format cannot substitute the emotional and cultural value of a live show. Much of the magic conjured up during a live gig is owed to its ephemeral nature. For live shows, the keyword is live  you want to live in the moment and be in the same place as the performer. Its all about the exchange of energy and passion between artist and audience. Its hard to create the same circle of energy with the online format, says Goodman, who fronts the Hong Kongbased fourpiece The Sleeves. The band, he says, is just finishing writing their third album. Were desperate to play live, polish the new songs and see how audiences will react to them. Wed probably rather play a socially distanced concert than livestream. But after months confined to practice rooms, wed be happy to play live in any format right now! The socially distanced indoor performance model has been put to test in Hong Kong. Indiefolk singersongwriter Tomii Chans ticketed solo outing in February was attended by an audience of , all of whom wore masks and were required to thoroughly sanitize their hands before entering the venue. But Chan wouldnt call it a sustainable solution. With the social gathering ban still in place, theres not much point in promoting the event widely, he says. Its the same crowd every time and its almost as if youre banking on the goodwill of friends and supporters. Precarious existence Not surprisingly, the coronavirus crisis has exposed the flawed, precarious nature of the indie music industry most glaringly. For example, live music venues are getting harder to find. Nearly all proper venues with a capacity of around  to , like Mom Livehouse and Hidden Agenda This Town Needs, have closed down. While the next possible alternative might have been approaching private studios or arts spaces that are open to hosting concerts, many such venues have already cut down on their business and ceased hosting events due to hygiene concerns, Chan says. Even prior to the pandemic, independent music venues across Hong Kong were struggling to cope with skyrocketing rent and stringent licensing as well as operating restrictions. For example, Hidden Agenda This Town Needs had recurring problems with getting a valid license to operate as a live music venue. Besides, visas for visiting bands werent easy to obtain. They moved locations several times before finally closing down in February. The Wanch has suspended live music shows in its Wan Chai premise until COVID is reined in. Therere not enough venues in Hong Kong because the government doesnt seem to value or support the role they play in the citys creative culture, says Goodman. Hong Kong lacks the middle ground between international bands and grassroots bands. How can a local artist grow and evolve from playing to  people to a crowd of , plus? Theres no infrastructure that enables it. The double whammy of a prolonged civil unrest in , followed by the coronavirus outbreak has created an existential crisis for several grassroots music venues. Oliver Breit, whose concert promoting company Plan Nine Promotions had previously brought international acts such as The Damned and From The Jam to perform in Hong Kong, says that when live shows do return, booking artists and bands would be less of a challenge than finding a place for them to play at. Land in Hong Kong is highly propertydriven. Weve been contacting overseas musicians and many are keen to come because they need the income, but theres simply nowhere for them to play at, unless the government provides affordable space and longterm venues so that organizers can plan effective show schedules, Breit says. Hong Kong stands to lose not just the indie music output from local bands but a musical culture as well unless something is done to stop more music venues from shutting down. Although the scenario looks grim, both Goodman and Breit believe there is a strong case for reviving live music concerts by grassroots artists in the city as the demand for such music has only grown stronger during the year of the pandemic. Hopefully therell be a rebound next year once weve weathered the crisis, says Goodman. This year has given people a chance to reflect and realize how much they miss live music, so theyll hopefully appreciate and support the local scene much more in the future. ? From top Hong Kong band Shumking Mansions livestreamed concert, was punctuated by prerecorded interviews with band members. Photo courtesy Leon Che Clark Chris B performs at The Wanchs H Festival, a free annual live music show. Photo courtesy hongkongrocks.com A scene from a previous live edition of The Wanchs H Festival. Photo courtesy hongkongrocks.com The Underground hosts curated virtual concerts featuring local bands such as Shumking Mansions. Photo courtesy Leon Che Clark Indie folk singer Tomii Chan says sociallydistanced concerts arent sustainable. Photo courtesy Lung Shing Organizers of the H Festival are not too keen to do a virtual edition of the highlypopular music event. Photo courtesy hongkongrocks.com ?