Its still trick or treat, but keep your distance this Halloween
2020/10/29 10:04
? Visitors sit by a wooden jackolanterns installation during the Halloween at Descanso event at Descanso Gardens in La Canada Flintridge, California, US, Oct , .  CINCINNATI, OhioDropping candy down a chute for little costumed Baby Sharks, Mulans and Black Panthers. Flinging fullsize candy bars to them via minicatapults, Game of Thrones style, or with decorated slingshots. Scattering candy at social distances across the front yard, placing it in Easter egg containers. A church near Cincinnati is offering hand treats to driveby families. And in San Francisco, a haunted house has become a haunted drivethru. A favorite US festivity is being tested by the pandemic. And people are rising to the challenge for trickortreating thats both safe and fun. Ive always loved Halloween. This has been a rough year for everyone, Carol McCarthy, of Palmyra, New Jersey, said of the festival on Oct . Im going a little more over the top than usual. Theres something about this year that I have to try a little harder to keep the magic going. Shes not the only one. The National Retail Federations surveys indicate Halloween spending and participation will be down a little this year, projecting spending of . billion after . billion spent last year. Consumers continue to place importance on celebrating our traditional holidays, even if by untraditional standards, federation CEO Matthew Shay said in a statement. McCarthy said she will make sure trickortreaters and their parents feel safe. Her husband, Tom, took some PVC pipe to make a chute of about  centimeters. She plans to use a spray bottle of alcohol to regularly disinfect the chutes end and shes going to offer a safety message while dressed as a pirate. In her Columbus, Ohio, neighborhood, Julie Schirmer has been practicing with her candy slingshot. It breaks my heart to think that all that fun may not be welladvised this year, she said. So I was thinking about it and trying to be creative. Fullsize bars Instead of the usual bags of miniature candy bars for trickortreaters, she is stocking up on a variety of fullsize bars, so children will feel like theyve hit the mother lode. Schirmer will don a black witchs cape and hat, with a mask, for the festivities. Her slingshot is outfitted with a creepy, old dolls head and orange ribbons with black spider webs. Usually, she and her neighbors gather inside for Halloween for a potluck dinner and wine. This year, she plans a frontyard fire pit with socially distanced seating. While some haunted attractions arent open this year, others have tried new approaches. ThePirates of Emerson haunted house in the San Francisco Bay Area has become a drivethru this year. Visitors used to creep through narrow hallways while ghosts and goblins jumped out in close quarters. Now, the spook show is watched from inside visitors vehicles as they wind their way through a route dotted with ominous shadows and creepy characters. Agencies via Xinhua