Dodgers strike gold in strangest of seasons
2020/10/29 9:19
Los Angeles Dodgers pitcher Clayton Kershaw hoists the World Series trophy after his team defeated the Tampa Bay Rays  in Tuesdays Game  in Arlington, Texas. The triumph ended a year wait for the Dodgers to win baseballs premier competition. AP LA ends year World Series drought as pandemic plays part in fitting finale ARLINGTON, TexasNo dogpile, no champagne and a mask on nearly every facethe Los Angeles Dodgers celebrated their first World Series title since  in a manner no one could have imagined prior to the coronavirus pandemic. They did it without Justin Turner, their redheaded star who received a positive test for COVID in the middle of their clinching victory. Turner was removed from Los Angeles  victory over the Tampa Bay Rays in Game  on Tuesday night after registering Major League Baseballs first positive test in  days and wasnt on the field as the Dodgers enjoyed the spoils of a title earned during a most unusual season. Thanks to everyone reaching out!, Turner said on Twitter. I feel great, no symptoms at all. Just experienced every emotion you can possibly imagine. Cant believe I couldnt be out there to celebrate with my guys! So proud of this team unbelievably happy for the City of LA. MLB commissioner Rob Manfred confirmed Turners positive test moments after presenting the World Series trophy to Los Angelesa jarring reminder of all thats been different in this season where the perennially favored Dodgers finally broke through. Mookie Betts, who came to the Dodgers to make a World Series difference, had a mad dash to home plate in the sixth inning to put Los Angeles over the top. It was the end of a frustrating championship drought for LAand perhaps just the start for Betts and the Dodgers, whose seventh World Series title was their sixth since leaving Brooklyn to the West Coast in . Betts bolted from third for the goahead run on World Series MVP Corey Seagers infield grounder, then led off the eighth with a punctuating homer. I just came to be a part of it. Im just happy I could contribute, Betts said Clayton Kershaw was warming in the bullpen when Julio Urias struck out Willy Adames to end it and ran alongside teammates to celebrate in the infield, later joined by family who had been in the bubble with them in North Texas. Players were handed face masks as they gathered, although many of their embraces came maskfree even after Turners positive test. The Dodgers had played , regularseason games and were in their th postseason game since Orel Hershiser struck out Oaklands Tony Phillips for the final out of the World Series in , the same year Kershawthe threetime National League Cy Young Award winner who won games  and  of this serieswas born in nearby Dallas. Los Angeles had come up short in the World Series twice in the previous three years. Betts was on the other side two years ago and homered in the clinching Game  for the Boston Red Sox, who before this season traded the  AL MVP to the Dodgers. They later gave him a million, year extension that goes until he turns  in . Betts .second sprint was just enough to beat the throw by first baseman JiMan Choi, pushing Los Angeles ahead  moments after Rays manager Kevin Cash pulled ace lefthander Blake Snell despite a dominant performance over   innings. Im not exactly sure why, Betts said when asked about the move. Im not going to ask any questions. He was pitching a great game. Randy Arozarena, the powerful Tampa Bay rookie, extended his postseason record with his th homer in the first off rookie righthander Tony Gonsolin, the first of seven Dodgers pitchers. The Rays never got another runner past second base as LAs bullpen gave relieverreliant Tampa Bay a taste of its own medicine. About   weeks after the Lakers won the NBA title while finishing their season in the NBA bubble in Orlando, Florida, the Dodgers gave Los Angeles another championship in this year when the coronavirus pandemic has delayed, shortened and moved around sports seasons. Seager, also the NLCS MVP, set Dodgers records with eight homers and  RBIs this postseason. The MLB season didnt start until late July and was abbreviated to  games for the shortest regular season since . And the expanded postseason, with  teams making it instead of , almost went the full distance. It ended when Urias got the last two Tampa Bay batters out on called third strikesthe th and  Ks by the Rays, with catcher Austin Barnes stuffing the last pitch in his back pocket. Along with the  strikeouts by the Dodgers, it was the most combined strikeouts in a nineinning World Series game. Associated Press ? ?