Easing of quarantine good news for HK residents on mainland
2020/10/29 8:34
Passengers wear face masks at Hong Kong International Airport, following the coronavirus disease outbreak, in Hong Kong, China, October , .? The Chinese mainlands quarantine policy for the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region has been eased in recent days as the city gets a grip on its novel coronavirus epidemic situation. And according to Hong Kong SAR Chief Executive Carrie Lam Cheng Yuetngor, beginning November, Hong Kong residents returning from the Chinese mainland will be exempted from the day compulsory quarantine. Limited returnee quotas will be offered at the beginning of the policy easing, as currently only two land checkpoints are in operation. Ever since the epidemic broke out, crossborder travel between Hong Kong and the mainland has been restricted to curb the spread of the virus. Both the SAR and the mainland introduced strict and compulsory quarantine measures for crossborder travelers, greatly inconveniencing them. The mainland has now largely controlled the spread of the novel coronavirus and life is gradually returning to normal there. The epidemic situation in Hong Kong fluctuated in recent months. But thanks to the efforts of the authorities and the residents, it is now largely under control too, allowing for the introduction of the quarantine exemption policy to help Hong Kong residents who live and work on the Chinese mainland visit home more easily. This is definitely good news for them. Just as Lam said, the oneway quarantine exemption policy is a good way to gradually restore crossborder travel between the SAR and the mainland, which will also be conducive to Hong Kongs economic recovery. But the most important premise for lifting the quarantine policy and resuming crossborder travel is for both sides to make sure the epidemic situation is under control so the health and safety of all the residents can be ensured. The authorities should make all efforts to achieve that first.