AntiAsian rhetoric called out
2020/10/29 0:59
 A man harassed me on the train, forcing me out of the way and shouting racial slurs I agree with Trump ... its because of you, the Chinese, we have to wear masks. That was one of the more than , incidents that STOP AAPI Hate, a coronavirusrelated racismreporting platform, has received from across the United States in the past eight months. There were at least  racially motivated attacks in which President Donald Trump is invoked, according to Russell Jeung, chair and professor of Asian American Studies at San Francisco State University, who compiled the incidents. Another said Trumps going to f? you, f Asian piece of  ... so theres a lot of profanity, said Jeung, who couldnt finish reading the example at a recent webinar because of the expletives. The rhetoric and policies of Trump and his Republican allies have resurrected the centuriesold yellow peril stereotype, as reflected by millions of racist retweets and thousands of antiAsian violent incidents, Jeung said. Researchers at the University of Michigan, University of Washington, University of Maryland and San Francisco State University recently conducted a study on how often politicians use the stigmatizing rhetoric about Asian Americans and the reach of that rhetoric by examining tweets issued by both Democratic and Republican general election candidates for the offices of president, vicepresident and US senator. The study focuses on the first eight months of the COVID pandemic from Jan  through Aug , and searches specifically for tweets that contain terms such as China, Chinese, Asian American, Wuhan and virus. The search returned , tweets in total. Of those tweets,  used or defended the use of stigmatizing terms such as Chinese virus, though the World Health Organization and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention advise against using terms that associate disease with a specific group of people or a place, said Melissa Borja, the lead researcher of the study, and assistant professor of American culture at the University of Michigan. She noted there is a very clear partisan divide in how candidates talk about China and Asian Americans. Republicans account for all of the tweets that use stigmatizing rhetoric, and for almost all the tweets that criticized China, said Borja. In contrast, Democrats did not use any stigmatizing rhetoric in their tweets. In addition, Democrats account for almost all of the tweets that showed support for Asian Americans, especially in relation to COVIDrelated racism, she added. The research suggests that Trump is the greatest spreader among politicians of antiAsian American rhetoric related to the pandemic, as his tweets have by far the greatest reach and were retweeted over . million times and liked nearly . million times A like is represented by a small heart to show a users appreciation. Trump and Republican senatorial candidates Tom Cotton of Arkansas and Bill Hagerty of Tennessee accounted for  percent of the tweets that use stigmatizing rhetoric. On March , Trump tweeted, The United States will be powerfully supporting those industries, like airlines and other, that are particularly affected by the Chinese virus ... in another tweet on July , he said, We are united in our effort to defeat the invisible China virus. The two tweets were retweeted more than , times and liked more than , times. In the latest STOP AAPI Hate report, Jeung identified  antiAsian policies introduced or passed in  that blame China for the COVID pandemic, bar Chinese international students and researchers from entering the US, restrict business and trade with China, and allow people to sue China in American courts. All these policies combined illustrate the antiimmigrant trend and pattern of discrimination employed by the Republican Party, said Jeung.