Excellent political ties form strong foundation
2020/10/28 8:13
WU HEPINGFOR CHINA DAILY ZimbabweChina relations strong during the COVID pandemic and will grow stronger in the future The elevation of ZimbabweChina relations to the level of a comprehensive strategic partnership of cooperation attests to the excellent relationship between the two countries. This year marked the th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between Zimbabwe and China, but their cooperation dates back to the days of Zimbabwes independence struggle in the late s. The bond of friendship between the two countries has stood the test of time and both sides are determined to ensure that it increases in depth, scope and substance. The close cooperation and mutual support demonstrated during the pandemic is natural for these longtime friends. At the onset of the pandemic in February, the Zimbabwean government was fully aware that the virus knows no borders. In that regard, the country stood in solidarity with China and voiced its support for Chinas measures to contain the novel coronavirus, including the lockdowns. The Zimbabwean people, including students, were among the most outstanding foreign volunteers who were ready to provide help in their communities. As longtime partners in different frontiers, Zimbabwe and China shared vital information on the pandemic. By the time the virus reached Zimbabwe, the two countries had already begun collaboration through among other things refurbishing Zimbabwes health infrastructure and strengthening its human capacities to respond to the public health threat. Notwithstanding the lethalness of the virus, China dispatched its personnel to the frontlines of the fight against the virus, including Zimbabwe. In addition, Zimbabwe was among the group of countries to receive medical supplies such as face masks, rapid testing kits and protective suits. Zimbabwe and China have always shared similar positions regarding the need to promote and safeguard multilateralism, hence it was inevitable that when a few countries tried to use the pandemic to discredit these principles, the two countries resolutely joined hands to uphold them. Zimbabwe believes that the pandemic has once again reinforced the principle that globalization is irreversible and individualism and unilateralism are the weak links in the fight against the virus that will cause us all to fail. To this end, the Zimbabwean government concurs with the statement delivered by President Xi Jinping at the th session of the United Nations General Assembly where he reminded us all that throughout human history, in the face of calamities such as the current pandemic, collective efforts and unity of purpose have enabled us to overcome the challenges. His words should be borne in mind. While the pandemic has threatened to reverse the socioeconomic development gains achieved by many countries including Zimbabwe and China, the excellent political relations between the two countries, as demonstrated by their highlevel engagements, should be a foundation on which business people can build confidence in going forward. It is hoped that both private and public sector enterprises can augment the efforts of the political leaders. Zimbabwe boasts abundant investment opportunities in mining, agriculture, manufacturing, services, infrastructure and tourism sectors. We believe that the postpandemic era provides a unique opportunity to expand cooperation and, in particular, to address systemic structural deficiencies exposed by the pandemic. We also believe that future economic cooperation between the two countries will diversify and boost the productive capacities of local industries through industrialization as well as value addition. This will not only create employment opportunities for Zimbabwes highly literate youth but also earn the country more foreign currency and reduce its imports bill, among other benefits. Investments in health, transportation, education and other social services related infrastructure could foster an attractive business environment for foreign investors. It is also our hope that once the COVID pandemic situation has improved, Zimbabwe and China can further strengthen peopletopeople exchanges especially in education and cultural spheres. President Xi often reminds us to put our people first in all our development endeavors. The more the two peoples understand each other culturally and intellectually, the easier it becomes for business to flourish. Based on the above, it is our considered view that, riding on the excellent political ties, ZimbabweChina cooperation is poised to witness further strengthening in economic, social, cultural and other spheres for the mutual benefit and wellbeing of our two countries and peoples. The author is the charge daffaires ad interim of the Zimbabwean embassy to China. The author contributed this article to China Watch, a think tank powered by China Daily. The views do not necessarily reflect those of China Daily. ?