El Paso orders curfew amid jump in virus cases
2020/10/28 0:22
A woman walks across the ZaragozaYsleta border bridge crossing towards El Paso, Texas, US, as Mexicos Department of Foreign Relations requested another monthlong extension on landcrossing restrictions at the USMexico border due to the coronavirus disease COVID outbreak, in Ciudad Juarez, Mexico October , .  The Texas border city of El Paso has been hit with such a high number of novel coronavirus cases that a county judge has issued a twoweek stayathome order with a daily curfew and a facemask mandate. Judge Ricardo Samaniego, the top elected executive in El Paso, issued the orders Sunday night, which include a  pm am curfew. He said that the county has seen a  percent increase in the positive testing rate since Oct  and a  percent increase in hospitalizations. The El Paso situation is occurring as novel coronavirus case numbers in the US have reached records in recent days with outbreaks continuing to grow across the country, especially in the Midwest and West areas. On Monday, Illinois health officials reintroduced restrictions to mitigate the spread, including curfews and banning indoor restaurant service in some areas. In Chicago, Mayor Lori Lightfoot is introducing a  pm curfew for nonessential businesses, limiting group sizes to six people or fewer and requiring indoor and outdoor maskwearing. The city also created guidelines for safer trickortreating. Daily numbers of COVID deaths in the US are still lower than they were in the spring, but at least  new coronavirus deaths and , new cases were reported on Oct . There has been an average of , cases per day in the past week, an increase of  percent from the average two weeks earlier, according to data from Johns Hopkins University. The soaring number of virus cases and investor concern about economic stimulus negotiations led the Dow Jones Industrial Average to fall  points, or . percent, to ,, erasing its gains for the month. The SP  index dropped nearly . percent to ,, while the techheavy Nasdaq Composite index fell . percent, to ,. In El Paso, Samaniego said funeral homes are preparing for a surge and El Paso County is executing agreements for more morgue space. He said the city is in a crisis stage because local hospitals are stretched to capacity. The Texas Department of Emergency Management is converting the citys convention center into an auxiliary hospital for about  beds. The state is sending three or four mobile hospital units, which will be set up in parking lots. Governor Greg Abbott, a Republican, said Sunday that he also has asked the federal government to make the military hospital at Fort Bliss available for civilian patients. According to the citys health department, there were , new coronavirus cases on Monday plus  delayed results. That brought the number of active cases to ,, the most since March. The total death toll from COVID reached  on Monday. As of Monday, hospitalizations in the city of , increased to , a record. About  of those patients are in intensive care units, according to health officials. El Paso City Health Advisor Dr Hector Ocaranza said, Its imperative that everybody avoid the opportunity to have the virus spread even further within our family and community. Samaniego said the county hopes to have the situation under control by limiting mobility in the community. Violators of the face mask order will be fined  and curfew violators . Samaniego also canceled Halloweens trickortreat activities. The county recommended school districts cancel sports events for the next two weeks. Statewide, at least  new COVID deaths and , new cases were reported on Sunday. Over the past week, there has been an average of , new cases a day, an increase of  percent from the daily average two weeks earlier, according to health officials.