China manages a Vshaped recovery The Economist
2020/10/27 15:11
Highrises dominate the skyline on both sides of the Huangpu River in Shanghai. Photo by Gao ErqiangChina Daily China has almost completed the upward leg of a Vshaped recovery while most of other countries are trapped in economic recessions and climbing cases in a new wave of the COVID pandemic, said a report by The Economist. Citing Chinas GDP figures of the third quarter this year C Chinas economy expanded by . percent yearonyear C the report attributed the rebound to Chinas capability of stamping out the virus and providing a favorable environment for the production to resume smoothly. The latest figures show a more balanced recovery in China as compared to the early stage recovery mainly driven by factory production and investment. In the third quarter, as infrastructural spending tailed off, the contribution to the GDP growth from capital formation fell to less than  percentage points, while consumption added nearly percentage points. Although still below the prepandemic levels, its a big improvement from the pandemics peak. Chinas trade also recovers fast, with its share of global merchandise exports hitting a record high during the pandemic. Data from the World Trade Organization shows that Chinas foreign trade accounted for . percent of the global trade, up  percent from the same period last year. Both exports and imports hit a record high share in global trade. Chinas trade surplus with the US stood at . billion in September, narrowing down from a surplus of . billion in August, according to China Customs. For the first nine months of the year, the countrys trade surplus with the US totaled . billion, customs data showed. By successfully restarting its economy, it became the worlds biggest producer of protective equipment, from masks to surgical gowns. According to the latest tally from Johns Hopkins University, confirmed COVID cases have surpassed . million globally, with over . million fatalities. The US has registered over , deaths and more than . million infections C both the highest in the world. Until vaccines are rolled out, others will struggle to match Chinas feat, the report said.