Hamilton stands alone in history
2020/10/27 9:20
British driver in dreamland after surpassing legend Schumacher ? Mercedes Lewis Hamilton is doused in champagne after winning Formula s Portuguese Grand Prix on Sunday to overtake Michael Schumachers record for the most race victories in the sport, with .  After growing up watching Michael Schumachers triumphs on television, Lewis Hamilton now stands above him and alone in Formula  history with  victories. Hamiltons comprehensive win at the Portuguese Grand Prix on Sunday also edged him closer to a seventh F title, the last of Schumachers major records left for Hamilton. I could only ever have dreamed of being where I am today, Hamilton said. Its going to take some time to fully sink in. I cant find the words at the moment. On a rainy track in Portugal, he finished nearly . seconds ahead of Mercedes teammate Valtteri Bottas and . clear of Red Bulls Max Verstappen for his eighth win of another dominant season. He also took an extra point for the fastest lap to extend his huge championship lead to  points over Bottas with just five races left. In fact, the only person to get close to him was his father, with whom he shared a long hug after the race. Hamilton won his first race in  and first title the following year. But his career really took off when he replaced the retired Schumacher at Mercedes in . Hamilton added five more F titles. I didnt have a magic crystal ball when I chose to come to this team, Hamilton said. His dad, Anthony Hamilton, then filmed the scene on his iPad as Hamilton stood on the podium while the crowd cheered him loudly. My dad is here which is amazing, my stepmum Linda is here, an emotional Hamilton said. I feel very blessed. Then it was time for the traditional champagne spraying, although Verstappen and Bottas had the last word this time, as Verstappen poured the bottle over Hamiltons head and Bottas sprayed him goodnaturedly in the face with his. Hamilton took a recordextending th career pole position, starting ahead of Bottas and Verstappen on a track being used for the first time in F. McLarens Carlos Sainz Jr. briefly held the race lead and then Bottas led until Hamilton passed him on lap . After that Hamilton coasted to the finish line and into the record books. The only thing that did trouble him was a bout of cramp in his right calf muscle. Pretty painful, but I had to somehow get through it, Hamilton said. Plenty of maskwearing fans sat in the stands around the undulating .kilometer circuit in Portimao, located in southern Portugals Algarve region. The track has frequent elevation changes and notably caused drivers problems with gripamong them Charles Leclerc, but the Ferrari driver did well to finish fourth in an uncompetitive car. AlphaTauris Pierre Gasly made a great late overtake on Racing Points Sergio Perez to take fifth place. Hamilton made a hesitant start while Bottas was overtaken by Verstappen only to gain the position back and then overtake a surprisingly cautious Hamilton as rain started falling. I had a huge oversteer, Hamilton said. I backed off massively. But Sainz Jr. zoomed up from seventh to first on the quicker soft tires, until Bottas passed him on lap , Hamilton did so on lap  and Verstappen on the next. Perez had a lucky escape at the start when he made contact with Verstappen and flew sideways off the track, without getting hit by another car. Kimi Raikkonen went from th to sixth with some typically daring moves but the yearold Finn started to drift back while, up ahead, Bottas led until Hamilton overtook him. Racing Points Lance Stroll made a reckless move on the left of Lando Norris and went off track after clipping the McLaren on lap . Stroll was given a fivesecond penalty. Hamiltons speed advantage was such that he was soon well clear of Bottas, whose rear right tire was graining. He perhaps gambled on Hamilton losing grip himself, but the gap was  seconds when Hamilton pitted for new tires on lap . Bottas came in on the following lap and when he came out he was caught in traffic. The day belonged to Hamilton, and it appears inevitable that title No  will follow suit. After which, the only thing left will be  victories on his way to improving his own record. His first win came in Canada,  years ago, when driving for McLaren, and the team sportingly sent Hamilton a tweet featuring a bottle of champagne and the words, You never forget your first. Mercedes head of motor sports Toto Wolff said Hamiltons achievements will only really sink in when hes retired. In  or  years were going to acknowledge what a special driver he was, Wolff said. Associated Press ? ?