Greater role of financial openingup highlighted
2020/10/26 10:40
Here are some of the most striking images taken from around the world over the past week. People dine inside a dome, an installation designed to help prevent the spread of coronavirus, at Capitol Singapore Outdoor Plaza, Singapore, on Oct , .  US President Donald Trump and Democratic presidential nominee Joe Biden participate in their final  US presidential campaign debate at Belmont University in Nashville, Tennessee, Oct , .  A freight train carrying  TEUs of goods departs from Yiwu, East Chinas Zhejiang province, for Minsk in Belarus on Oct , , marking the ,th trip by ChinaEurope cargo trains in the province this year. As of Wednesday, the ChinaEurope freight train service in Zhejiang has shipped , TEUs of goods, up  percent yearonyear, accounting for about  percent of the countrys total.  An Israeli medical clown is seen before she visits young patients at the COVID department of Sheba Medical Center in the central Israeli city of Ramat Gan on Oct , . About  medical clowns of the Dream Doctors Project are acting under stringent health precautions at around  Israeli hospitals to bring happiness to patients amid the coronavirus pandemic.  Members of the French National Assembly gather outside the legislature in Paris during a tribute to Samuel Paty on Oct , . The French teacher was beheaded on Friday in broad daylight outside his school by an yearold student. Police shot the attacker dead.  Algerian students wearing face masks observe physical distance while gathering on the playground at a primary school in Algiers, Algeria, Oct , . Algerian Prime Minister Abdelaziz Djerad on Wednesday called for people to follow preventive measures against the COVID as more than five million students returned to primary schools on the day, the official APS news agency reported.  People enjoy the autumn colors at Holland Park in London, Oct , .  Combo photo shows Tokyo Skytree being illuminated with a lighting pattern specially designed in the  colors of Sustainable Development Goals  of them in picture in Tokyo, Oct , . This special illumination of Skytree, designed to boost momentum toward achieving SDGs and to commemorate the th anniversary of the UN, will continue until Oct , .  Jewish worshipers pray at the separation partitions in front of the Western Wall in the Old City of Jerusalem on Oct , , after a onemonth lockdown in response to coronavirus resurgence was lifted.  Children practice Indonesian traditional dance by following health protocol at Rumah Budaya Nusantara Puspo Budoyo in Ciputat district, South Tangerang, Indonesia, Oct , . 