Pandemichit countries face new restrictions amid surge
2020/10/26 0:00
COVID cases continue to surge in Europe and North America, prompting nations to implement new restrictions, according to latest health figures. At least three top aides to US VicePresident Mike Pence have tested positive for the coronavirus in the last few days, people briefed on the matter said, raising fresh questions about the safety protocols at the White House where masks are not routinely worn, The New York Times reported. VicePresident Pence and Mrs Pence both tested negative for COVID today, and remain in good health, Devin OMalley, a spokesman for Pence, was quoted by the newspaper as saying. Pence decided to continue campaigning for the ongoing presidential election, despite his proximity to his chief of staff, Marc Short, who had tested positive. The coronavirus has now infected more than  million people in the United States, but some experts think the worst has yet to come. Speaking to CNN on Friday, Michael Osterholm, the director of the Center for Infectious Disease Research and Policy at the University of Minnesota, repeated his claim that the US is now entering the darkest days of the pandemic and that daily cases could easily top ,. As more European nations see record death and infection tolls from the coronavirus, many are reimposing curfews, partial lockdowns and other restrictions on public life to slow a second wave of COVID. Andrea Ammon, director of the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control, said the continent was facing a major threat to public health and a highly concerning epidemiological situation, according to Agence FrancePresse. The ECDC said all EU countries except Cyprus, Estonia, Finland and Greece fell into a serious concern category, as did the United Kingdom, up from just seven a month ago. After Spain became the first European country to officially record a million COVID cases earlier last week, Spanish Prime Minister Pedro Sanchez said on Friday the real number of infections was likely more than triple that figure, according to AFP. France, one of the European countries hit hardest by the first wave of the pandemic, imposed a curfew from midnight on Friday, which extends to more than twothirds of the population, or  million people, according to German public international broadcaster Deutsche Welle. French President Emmanuel Macron said the country should expect to be living with COVID until next summer. Berlin implemented new maskwearing requirements on busy streets, and Germanys death toll passed , on Saturday, the AFP reported. The German Foreign Ministry also declared Switzerland and Poland to be risk areas, meaning that travelers must be tested and enter a mandatory quarantine upon their return to Germany. On Friday, parts of Italy including the capital Rome went under curfew while Wales entered a full lockdown. In Poland, a nationwide red zone lockdown required the partial closure of primary schools and restaurants. Polish President Andrzej Duda tested positive for coronavirus on Friday, according to Reuters. The yearold president, who said in televised remarks that he was feeling fine, is now in isolation along with his wife and working remotely. Behind only Latin America, Asia surpassed  million infections of the new coronavirus on Saturday, the secondheaviest regional toll in the world, according to a Reuters tally. Asia accounts for about onequarter of the global caseload of . million of the virus. With over , deaths, the region accounts for about  percent of the global COVID toll. Despite the numbers, the region overall has reported improvement in handling the pandemic in recent weeks, with daily caseloads slowing in places like India, Reuters reported. Within the region, South Asia led by India is the worst affected, with nearly  percent of the reported global coronavirus cases and  percent of deaths. India is the worsthit country in the world after the US, although infections are slowing in the worlds secondmost populous country. India is reporting more than , cases of the virus a day, viewed on a weekly average, with  new cases per , people in Asias thirdlargest economy, according to Reuters reports. COVID deaths in India are averaging  a day, the worst in the world and accounting for one in every  global pandemic deaths. Over recent months, Australia, China, Japan and South Korea have reduced the spread of the virus, using the tactic of detecting cases, isolating them and quarantining contacts. Mike Ryan, head of the World Health Organizations emergencies program, has said that Europe and North America should follow the example of Asian states in persevering with antipandemic measures and quarantine restrictions for infected people. ?