China made true leap in past  years, says US scholar
2020/10/22 0:00
A total of  countries and economies have now joined COVAX, an international initiative coled by the World Health Organization and partners to ensure effective and equitable global access to COVID vaccines, according to the WHO. The program, which China joined on Oct , represents the largest portfolio of potential vaccines and the most effective way to share safe and effective vaccines equitably across the world. That it has won such broad recognition and support shows the international solidarity that exists in the fight against the common public health threatwith one notable exception. It also highlights the sense of urgency that is driving the initiative, since there is still no sign of the pandemic abating. Even before joining COVAX, China had reiterated on different occasions that it would make its vaccines a global public good when they are ready, and prioritize supplying the leastdeveloped and other developing countries, as Beijing regards it as an important way to help build a community of health for all. In stark contrast, the unilateralist mentality remains pervasive in Washington, which means the US, with the most advanced medical research and manufacturing capabilities, continues to give COVAX the cold shoulder. Although the US administration has pledged to provide its vaccines to other countries, its misappropriation of other countries face masks and other essential medical supplies has raised concerns that it will hoard its vaccines as strategic resources or use them as a bonus for doing its bidding. Not to mention that the administrations rejection of the program robs people in the US of access to any vaccines through the international program and risks prolonging both the humanitarian crisis in the country and the pandemic. While the US president can be cured of his infection and become even better in just three days, such a remarkably brief convalescence, less than for a cold, is likely to be beyond others. Thats why, as the Chinese Foreign Ministry said, China is not only participating in COVAX, but also actively cooperating with relevant organizations under its framework to expedite the launch of the desperately needed defense against the virus. China has at least four experimental vaccines in final stages of clinical trials, and , volunteers have received the vaccines during phase clinical trials with no severe side effects reported, according to an official with the Ministry of Science and Technology on Tuesday. And the country has ample capacity to produce the vaccines. SinoPharm, for instance, is setting up production lines to supply  billion doses of two possible vaccines, according to its chairman. The fastest way to end the pandemic and drive a truly global economic recovery is the equitable sharing of vaccines when they are ready. The US administration should stop trying to politicize them and close ranks with the rest of the world.