Giving life to poetry
2020/10/20 1:50
US President Donald Trump.  LAS VEGAS  US President Donald Trump sought Monday to buck up his campaign staffers two weeks from Election Day, dismissing the cautionary coronavirus advice of his scientific experts as well as polling showing him trailing Democratic rival Joe Biden across key battleground states. Speaking to campaign aides on a conference call, Trump said he believes hes going to win, allowing that he didnt have that same sense of confidence two weeks ago when he was hospitalized with COVID. One week since returning to the campaign trail, where his handling of the pandemic is a central issue to voters, Trump blasted his governments own scientists for their criticism of his performance. People are tired of hearing Fauci and all these idiots, Trump said of Dr. Anthony Fauci, declaring the governments top infectious disease expert a disaster. But Fauci is both respected and popular, and Trump suggested firing the doctor would only create greater controversy. Trumps rejection of scientific advice on the pandemic has already drawn bipartisan condemnation. Fauci, in an interview with CBSs  Minutes that aired Sunday, said he was not surprised that Trump contracted the virus after he held large events with few face coverings. Fauci also objected to the presidents campaign using his words in a campaign ad. I was worried that he was going to get sick when I saw him in a completely precarious situation of crowded, no separation between people, and almost nobody wearing a mask, Fauci said of the president. Trump held his call with campaign staffers from Las Vegas, where he was on the third day of a western campaign swing. He was to hold Arizona rallies in Prescott and Tucson later in the day before returning to the White House. The presidents professed confidence stood in contrast to his public comments in recent days reflecting on the prospect that he could lose. If Crazy Joe becomes president, its not even conceivable, he told a rally crowd in Janesville, Wisconsin, over the weekend. Running against him, it puts such pressure because Im running against the worst in the history. ... If I lose, I will have lost to the worst candidate, the worst candidate in the history of presidential politics. If I lose, what do I do? Id rather run against somebody whos extraordinarily talented, at least, this way I can go and lead my life. Last week, Trump asked a crowd in Macon, Georgia Could you imagine if I lose my whole life? What am I going to do? Im going to say I lost to the worst candidate in the history of politics, Im not going to feel so good. Maybe Ill have to leave the country. I dont know. On Sunday, he expressed confusion that he could possibly be tied with Biden in Nevada  where polls actually show Trump trailing. How the hell can we be tied? he said at a rally in Carson City. Whats going on? ... We get these massive crowds. He gets nobody. And then they say were tied. ... It doesnt make sense. In Carson City, Trump addressed thousands of supporters who sat elbow to elbow, cheering him and booing Biden and the press. The vast majority wore no masks to guard against the coronavirus, though cases in the state are on the rise, with more than , new infections reported Saturday. The Republican president, as he often does, warned that a Biden election would lead to further lockdowns and appeared to mock Biden for saying he would listen to scientists. Hell listen to the scientists. If I listened totally to the scientists, we would right now have a country that would be in a massive depression, Trump said. In addition to public polling that indicates Biden has an edge, the former vice president enjoys another considerable advantage over Trump money. Trump raked in  million during a fundraiser Sunday afternoon at the Newport Beach home of top GOP donor and tech mogul Palmer Luckey, which also featured a performance by the Beach Boys. But over the past four months, Biden has raised over  billion, a massive amount of money that has eclipsed Trumps onceoverwhelming cash advantage. Thats become apparent in advertising, where Biden and his Democratic allies are on pace to spend twice as much as Trump and the Republicans in the closing days of the race, according to data from the ad tracking firm KantarCMAG. Though Trump has pulled back from advertising in Midwestern states that secured his  win, hes invested heavily elsewhere, including North Carolina, where he is on pace to slightly outspend Biden in the days ahead. In Nevada, which Trump came close to winning in , Democrats are set to outspend Trump in the closing days by a more than to ratio. Trump argued that his rallies could help make up the difference in states that remain close. Where we have states that are sort of tipping, could go either way, he said. I have an ability to go to those states and rally. Biden has no ability, I go to a rally we have , people. He goes to a rally and he has four people. Trumps visit to the state is part of an aggressive schedule of campaign events, where he has leaned heavily into fear tactics. Trumps Carson City rally was held at an airport with a golden scrub brushcovered hill providing a dramatic backdrop. He relived fond moments from his  campaign against Hillary Clinton, revisited his longrunning feud with NFL players and went on an extended riff about water management policy, which he blamed for people having to flush their toilet  times.? Agencies via Xinhua ?