Book offers tips on how to rest effectively
2020/10/20 0:10
US President Donald Trump left and?Democratic presidential candidate Joe Biden.  President Donald Trump and Democratic challenger Joe Biden were looking to persuade early voters on Sunday in Nevada and North Carolina with the final presidential debate later this week. Some . million Americans already have cast ballots either by mail or in person ahead of the Nov  election, according to the US Elections Project at the University of Florida. The novel coronavirus pandemic so far has not had an effect on voter interest, with some states reporting record numbers of voter registrations, although the fierce political divide in the US probably is a factor, too. Georgia reported a high of nearly . million registered voters, , of whom registered online, according to politico.com. In Arizona, a high of nearly  million people had registered to vote as of August. In Florida, more than . million voters have registered, exceeding the  total by nearly  million, the website reported. In North Carolina, where . million, or  percent, of the states registered voters had already voted as of Sunday morning, Biden, , urged residents to cast ballots as soon as possible. Trump won the state in . We got to keep the incredible momentum going we cant let up, he said at a drivein rally in Durham. Dont wait  go vote today. Biden also criticized Trump for saying over the weekend that the United States had turned the corner in the COVID pandemic, noting that the rate of new cases across the country has risen to the highest level in months. Trump, , a Republican, spent Sunday in Nevada, a state he hopes to wrest away from Democrats after narrowly losing it to Hillary Clinton in . Early inperson voting in the state began on Saturday. The president began his day by attending a service at the International Church of Las Vegas. One of the churchs pastors, Denise Goulet, said that God had told her that Trump would win the  election. Trump put a handful of  bills into an offering bucket and bowed his head during a prayer. Trump will campaign every day leading up to Thursdays debate in Nashville, Tennessee, including stops in Arizona and North Carolina, campaign spokesman Tim Murtaugh said. Biden campaign manager Jen OMalley Dillon said over the weekend that the national polling figures showing Biden ahead are misleading because mustwin states are close. We cannot become complacent because the very searing truth is that Donald Trump can still win this race, and every indication we have shown that this thing is going to come down to the wire, she wrote in a memo to donors. Trump campaigned on Saturday in Michigan and Wisconsin, two battleground states he narrowly won in the  election. In Muskegeon, Michigan, he criticized Governor Gretchen Whitmer, a Democrat, for imposing restrictions to slow the spread of the coronavirus. Whitmer was the target of a kidnapping plot uncovered by the FBI. Hopefully youll be sending her packing pretty soon, Trump said, prompting the crowd to yell back Lock her up! several times. Whitmer said Sunday on Meet the Presson NBC that the presidents rhetoric was incredibly disturbing and dangerous for her and her family. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi said on Sunday that differences remain with the Trump administration on a wideranging coronavirus relief package, but she was optimistic legislation could be agreed to before Election Day. The California Democrat said she wanted a bill passed before the election but acknowledged an agreement would have to come within  hours. Im optimistic because, again, weve been back and forth on all of this, Pelosi said on ABCsThis Week. The White House proposed a . trillion stimulus last week. Pelosi, who wants a . trillion aid and stimulus package, said the offer fell short in a range of areas including tax credits for poor people, aid to state and local governments, worker protections and rent assistance. The Republicans who control the Senate, however, are reluctant to pass another massive relief bill. Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell of Kentucky said the Senate would vote on Wednesday on a pareddown  billion proposal to target specific areas of need. Democrats have rejected socalled skinny bills with pareddown funding. Twitter on Sunday removed what it called a misleading tweet downplaying the usefulness of masks posted by a top coronavirus adviser to Trump. Dr Scott Atlas post on Twitter on Saturday said Masks work? NO. Twitter Inc removed the tweet Sunday, saying it violated its misleading information policy on COVID, which targets statements that have been confirmed to be false or misleading by subjectmatter experts. Twitter and Facebook have been thrust into campaign controversy after blocking linking to a New York Post story last week that published emails and pictures from a laptop computer purportedly abandoned by Bidens son Hunter at a pawn shop in Wilmington, Delaware. The United States shows more CASES than other countries, which the Lamestream Fake News Media pounces on daily, because it TESTS at such a high and costly level, he wrote on Twitter. Hospitalizations were rising in  states, and there is no intervention short of a vaccine that can thwart the spread, said Dr Scott Gottlieb, a former Food and Drug Administration commissioner. Health and Human Services Secretary Alex Azar urged Americans to continue social distancing, wearing masks and washing hands. Hang in there with us, he said onMeet the Press. We are so close. Reuters contributed to this story.