Trump and Biden hit the trail in a charged election week
2020/10/19 11:28
US President Donald Trump raises his fist as he arrives at John Wayne Airport in Santa Ana, California, US, October , .  WASHINGTON  US President Donald Trump and rival Joe Biden hit the ground Sunday in the swing states that will decide the US election, as the campaign turns increasingly vicious  days before voting. Trump, scrambling to make up lost ground, is on a furious multistate barnstorming tour, hopping on Sunday from Nevada to California and then back to Nevada for a day of rallies and fundraising, before moving on to Arizona on Monday. He also plans rallies later in the week in Pennsylvania and North Carolina. An infrequent churchgoer, he attended services Sunday in a cavernous  but not entirely full  evangelical church in Las Vegas. Congregants prayed for him, and when a collection plate was passed, a pool photographer saw Trump toss in a handful of  bills. Biden, a practicing Catholic, attended Mass with his wife Jill at their church near Wilmington, Delaware, before walking outside to visit the grave of son Beau, who died of brain cancer in . Limiting his own campaign itinerary due to pandemic concerns, the yearold Biden then flew to North Carolina for a pair of events. In Durham, the maskwearing former vice president jogged to a stage in a parking lot where people in dozens of vehicles waited for him. We choose hope over fear, we choose unity over division, science over fiction and yes, we choose truth over lies, he told them. His motorcade also made an unannounced stop to allow him and his granddaughter to order milkshakes, with Biden  keen to play up the stark differences between his campaign and Trumps  keeping his mask on throughout. Both men are working to rouse their political bases and appeal to the seemingly small number of undecided voters in an election that could revolve on voter turnout. One key opportunity comes this week with the candidates final nationally televised debate, on Thursday evening in Nashville, Tennessee. Their first debate descended into a chaotic stream of interruptions by Trump, headshaking and angry rejoinders the second was replaced by dueling townhall meetings after Trump refused to debate virtually on the heels of his bout with coronavirus. The final debate will be facetoface. Trump trails in polls ? Democratic presidential nominee Joe Biden waves as he departs the stage during a drivein campaign rally at Riverside High School on October ,  in Durham, North Carolina.  If there was any doubt about the yearold presidents own recovery from the virus, his packed campaigning schedule appears to belie it, and his message has, if anything, grown more pointed. With the president trailing in polls, some analysts say he should focus on Americas economic prospects, which Trump considers his strong point. Nearly , Americans have died from Covid, the worlds worst total, and the outbreak is now spreading in many states at rates unseen in months. Polls show that most voters disapprove of his erratic handling of the pandemic, and Biden has made it a core theme, promising a more sober leadership. Ahead of Trumps Nevada events, Biden said the president needs to answer for his failed response to COVID. He continued Donald Trump didnt take necessary precautions to protect himself and others. How can we trust him to protect Nevada families? Trump has dismissed his weak polling data, while Bidens supporters are also wary about overconfidence in an election that could tilt on a close race in a single state such as Florida. ?Its got to stop? Democrats assailed Trump on Sunday not just for his attacks on Biden but on Michigan Governor Gretchen Whitmer, the recent target of a kidnapping plot by a heavily armed rightwing militia group. Meanwhile Democrat Nancy Pelosi, speaker of the House of Representatives, has been negotiating with Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin over a stimulus relief bill to alleviate the economic strains imposed by the pandemic. She said Sunday on ABC that she remained optimistic of a deal, though many lawmakers say the two sides remain far apart. More than  million Americans have already cast ballots in unprecedented early voting. AFP