The world in photos Oct  C
2020/10/19 11:11
Here are some of the most striking images taken from around the world over the past week. Red leaves are seen on a building in Dublin, Ireland, on Oct , .  The photos of Laureates of the  Nobel Prize in Economics are seen on a screen during the prize announcement in Stockholm, Sweden, Oct , . The  Nobel Prize in Economics was awarded to Paul R. Milgrom and Robert B. Wilson for improvements to auction theory and inventions of new auction formats, the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences announced on Monday.  Students wearing face masks gather during an event at a school in Cairo, Egypt, Oct , . Egypt officially reopened on Saturday tens of thousands of schools for millions of students across the country to start the new academic year while implementing precautionary measures against the COVID.  Photo taken on Oct , , shows the EU autumn summit in Brussels, Belgium. The European Council kicked off its twoday autumn summit on Thursday afternoon.  A child cries on the outskirts of Tehran, Iran, on Oct , , the International Day for the Eradication of Poverty.  The United Nations Food and Agriculture Organizations video mapping show is displayed on the Colosseum in Rome, Oct , . World Food Day was marked across Italy with both colorful and serious events plus tributes to the Romebased United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization, which marked the th founding anniversary the same day.  Women take pictures in a pink muhly grass field in the Olympic Park in Seoul, Oct , . South Korea on Sunday decided to lower its threetier socialdistancing guidelines to the lowest level as the daily COVID cases stayed relatively low in recent days. Many residents chose to come to parks for outdoor activities amid the autumn season.  A pedestrian looks at a comfort women statue in Berlin, Oct , . A statue in Berlin that was just erected by a German association for Korean history, the KoreaVerband, at the end of September, would be allowed to remain for the time being, the responsible local district office recently announced.  A girl wearing a face mask takes part in the Hauntoween LA, an immersive and interactive Halloween drivethru experience, in Woodland Hills, Los Angeles, on Oct , . A series of familyfriendly and interactive Halloweenthemed drivethru festivities are being offered in LA from Oct  through Halloween. Visitors can drive through a variety of installations to celebrate Halloween amid the COVID pandemic.  A worker wearing personal protection equipment sanitizes the seats of a cinema hall in New Delhi, India, Oct , . 