Beto ORourke running for Texas governor
2021/11/16 9:29
Beto ORourke speaks during a protest against Texas legislators who are advancing a slew of new voting restrictions in Austin, Texas, US, May , .  Democrat Beto ORourke ended months of speculations on Monday by announcing that he is running for governor of Texas. ORourke, who announced his decision on his YouTube channel, opened his campaign by talking about the failure of the Texas power grid in the winter storm early this year. In that event, close to  percent of customers served by the Electric Reliability Council of Texas lost power. More than  people died as a result of the power outage, making it the costliest disaster in Texas history. ORourke said the power grid failure is the symptom of a larger problem we have in Texas right now. Those in positions of public trust have stopped listening to, serving and paying attention to and trusting people of Texas. He criticized the current government as not focusing on things like a functioning electricity grid, creating the best jobs, having worldclass schools, expanding Medicaid and legalizing marijuana. Instead, they are focusing on the extreme policies around abortion or permitless carry even in our schools, he said. ORourke, , had served as US representative from El Paso for a few years since . He ran for the US Senate against Ted Cruz in . He lost by a . percent margin but helped the Democrats win many other positions within the state. He entered the  presidential race in  but later ended his campaign and endorsed Joe Biden. Together, we can push past the small and divisive politics that we see in Texas today  and get back to the big, bold vision that used to define Texas. A Texas big enough for all of us, ORourke tweeted. A series of campaign kickoff events have been scheduled starting Tuesday in major cities including San Antonio, Houston, Dallas and Corpus Christi. Republican Governor Greg Abbott, who turned  this month, responded to ORourkes announcement by posting an animation of ORourkes face morphing into Bidens face, stating hes wrong for Texas. Even though Abbotts popularity has sunk to its lowest point recently mostly due to his push for a staunchly conservative agenda such as restrictive abortion and permitless gun carry, ban orders on mask and vaccine mandates, he has a comfortable lead over ORourke C  percent versus  percent, according to an October poll of registered voters conducted by the Texas Tribune and the University of Texas. However, another October poll of registered voters by Rice University showed that Abbott and ORourke are neckinneck  percent versus  percent, with  percent undecided. What this shows us is that Greg Abbotts support among general election voters has diminished. And while hes still considered to be the favorite to win, we cant say at the present time that hes a lock to beat Beto ORourke in November of , Mark Jones, political science professor at Rice University told a local CBSTV affiliate. Jones conducted the poll in collaboration with the Texas Hispanic Policy Foundation. It also took a deep look at Hispanic voters, showing that ORourkes Hispanic support was  percent, with  percent for Abbott. Negative comments about ORourke have focused on his stance on guns. He proposed requiring buybacks of assault weapons during his presidential campaign. He also proclaimed during a presidential debate in  that, Hell yes, were going to take your AR, your AK. Jon Taylor, professor and department chair at the political science and geography department at the University of Texas at San Antonio, said that it doesnt help ORourke that Biden has low approval numbers nationally, and even worse in Texas. However, even by the Texas TribuneUT poll numbers, ORourke is well within striking range. ORourke is well behind Abbott on money and may be a little too liberal for the Texas electorate. But he also has high name recognition, will energize Democratic voters and might be in the right place at the right time Abbotts approval numbers are well underwater, which is a big warning sign for an incumbent  particularly for one running for a third term as governor, Taylor said. If ORourke were to win, his victory would be the first by a Democrat since . It would have resonance and mark a fundamental shift not only in Texas politics but nationally, he said, adding that if such a shift occurs, the GOP could be in the political wilderness for a generation.