ChinaEurope ties withstand pandemic jolt
2020/10/19 0:00
Even as the COVID pandemic has crippled the global economy and limited international travel, collaboration between China and Europe in fighting the crisis has continued. When Italy was at the European epicenter of the coronavirus outbreak in March, China donated medical provisions including face masks, and increased exports of supplies and equipment to meet its needs. The Chinese government also sent medical teams to the country to help combat the pandemic. In Ireland, the Irish respiratory consultant Oisin OConnell said expertise shared by Chinese medical practitioners during the early days of the outbreak was instrumental in that nations response to COVID and has helped save many lives. In the last week of August, Chinese State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi paid official visits to Italy, the Netherlands, Norway, France and Germany, in an effort to strengthen links with Europe. They were the first visits by Chinas top diplomat since the advent of the pandemic. The countries agreed to strengthen cooperation between China and Europe in response to the pandemic and to restart personnel exchanges and practical cooperation to contribute to the global economic recovery. Last month, phase trials of a Chinese vaccine were launched in Turkeys capital, Ankara. Volunteers received an initial jab, followed by a second dose  days later. Jenny Clegg, vicepresident of the Society for AngloChinese Understanding, said In this time of crisis, international collaboration is vital. Europe and China are now leading the way. Through joint research efforts and sharing resources, the two sides are taking invaluable steps to tackle COVID. Christopher Bovis, a professor at the University of Hull in England, hailed the crossborder collaborative engagements between European governments and China. It demonstrated commitment and willingness in cooperating on COVIDrelated research, vaccine development and medical equipment provision, encouraging openness and data sharing in order to ensure diagnostics, vaccines and prevention measures are developed rapidly for the benefit of every nation, he said. Such collaborative activities represent features of global leadership and reflect on a longterm and strategic plan to ensure that the pandemic is defeated and that the economic combating of the pandemic is a global responsibility which must draw results from international collaboration. Research collaboration Ollie Shiell, founder of the consultancy Asiability, which helps to bridge relationships between businesses in China and the United Kingdom, said the UK Research and Innovation agency disburses a budget of more than  billion pounds . billion to help foster and support research collaborations across universities, businesses, charities and governments. Among the funded projects are many involving research collaboration with China. Universities from Warwick, Oxford, Manchester, Imperial College London to a great many more have been beneficiaries of funding to help them work with counterparts across China on issues of mutual concern stemming from the pandemic, Shiell said. This month an inaugural online festival for cultural and creative exchanges between China and the UK was launched by the British Council, in partnership with the UKs Department for International Trade, VisitBritain, VisitScotland, the British embassy in Beijing and the China Visual Festival. About  organizations from both countries have provided digital content that forms more than  individual cultural projects, most of which were created during the pandemic. Rehana Mughal, director of arts for the British Council in China, said it was an important time to host the festival. For the cultural and creative industries, the impact has been significant, yet many artists have found imaginative ways to make powerful work that documents our collective strength during this challenging time. wangmingjiemail.chinadailyuk.com ?