The right to be ones self
2020/10/16 0:00
PARISIn France, one of the European countries hardest hit by the coronavirus resurgence, a curfew will be introduced in big cities and private meetings will be restricted, President Emmanuel Macron ordered on Wednesday. In his first major TV appearance since July, Macron rang the alarm bell on a dangerous virus which starts off again and spreads rapidly in Europe and France, while reassuring citizens that the second wave remained under control. We have not lost control. We are in a situation which is worrying and which justifies that we are neither inactive nor in panic. We learned from the first wave,Macron told the France  and TF television stations. With the aim to reduce daily new cases to , from the current average of around ,, the French government opted for measures that are pertinent and ruled out a new round of lockdown, which Macron said would be disproportionate. Starting from Friday midnight, a fourweek curfew will be imposed in the greater Paris region and eight major citiesGrenoble, Lille, Lyon, AixMarseille, Rouen, Toulouse, Montpellier and SaintEtienne. These regions are already on maximum alert, with bars and gyms shut down and theaters and restaurants under strict health protocols. Gatherings of more than  people are prohibited in public spaces such as beaches and parks. There will not be a traffic ban but a strict restriction of movement for good reasons. We will no longer go to restaurants, to party, to meet friends after  pm, Macron explained. Anyone violating the curfew would be fined  euros , and permission will be available for those who have health emergencies and work at night, he added. As of Wednesday, a further , COVID cases were confirmed, up by , compared with Tuesdays count. The cumulative number of infections rose to ,, Europes secondbiggest tally after Spain. While Germany, the European Unions most populous nation, is still in comparatively good shape, alarm bells have started ringing there, too. On Thursday, the countrys national disease control center reported , cases over the latest hour periodexceeding the previous record of nearly , set in late March, although testing in the country of  million has expanded greatly since then. Chancellor Angela Merkel and Germanys  state governors agreed on Wednesday night to tighten maskwearing rules, make bars close early and limit the number of people who can gather in areas where coronavirus infection rates are high. Merkel, who stressed the importance of keeping contacttracing efforts on track, saidWe must stop this exponential rise, the quicker the better. Lothar Wieler, the head of the Robert Koch Institute, Germanys national disease control center, said we can still repress the spread, the exponential growth of the virus. But officials made clear that more efforts may be necessary. Important step I think yesterdays decisions are an important step, but they probably wont be enough, Merkels chief of staff, Helge Braun, told ARD television. So now it is up to the population that we dont just look at what am I allowed to do now, but basically we must do more and be more cautious than what the governors decided yesterday. Merkel noted that neighboring countries are having to take very drastic measures. Globally, there were ,, confirmed coronavirus cases and ,, deaths as of Thursday, according to a tally kept by the Johns Hopkins University in the United States. Mexico on Wednesday called on the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank to establish a support strategy for middleincome countries, saying they have no financial wiggle room to tackle the economic fallout caused by the COVID pandemic. Countries such as Mexico, Peru, Colombia and Bulgaria cannot afford to take the kind of emergency financial measures that developed countries have adopted, Mexicos Finance Minister Arturo Herrera said. Mexicos health ministry on Wednesday reported , new cases of coronavirus infection and  additional fatalities, bringing the total in the country to , cases and , deaths. Xinhua  Agencies ? Without the prepandemic crowds, visitors admire Le Sacre de Napoleon The Coronation of Napoleon, by French painter JacquesLouis David, in the Louvre Museum in Paris on Wednesday. LUDOVIC MARINAFP ? ?