Fauci says White House hosted COVID superspreader event media
2020/10/15 11:04
? Director of Prague Zoo Miroslav Bobek wearing a face mask stands next to a statue of Prague Zoo founder Jiri Janda, as the Czech government shut zoos, sports and culture venues for two weeks to slow down the spread the coronavirus disease, in Prague, Czech Republic, on Oct , .  G officials discuss the situation as the epidemic prompts new lockdowns in many countries Europe is tightening measures to contain a sharp rise in COVID cases. The number of infections worldwide has surpassed  million, according to the Johns Hopkins University tracker. Millions have recovered, but . million have died. The rise in new cases is being driven by spikes in Europe, the United States and India. The Czech Republic, which has the highest new infection rate per , people in Europe, is imposing a threeweek partial lockdown, shutting schools, restaurants, bars and clubs, the BBC reported. Schools, bars and clubs in the country will be closed until Nov , while restaurants will be restricted to deliveries and takeaway until  pm. University dorms are also closed temporarily, and all schools will continue to teach remotely. Kindergartens will stay open, and special provisions will be made for the children of critical care workers. Masks, which are already mandatory in shops and on public transport, will also be required at tram stops and on train platforms. Gatherings of more than six people are not allowed, indoors or outdoors. The Czech Republic was quick to impose a strict lockdown in March, shutting its borders and making facemasks compulsory. But in late June, restrictions, including the mask requirement, were abandoned, and a huge dinner party was held on Pragues Charles Bridge to celebrate the socalled end of the coronavirus crisis. The Netherlands entered a partial lockdown for four weeks beginning at  pm on Wednesday to reduce the impact on the countrys healthcare sector, according to the Dutch onlinenews platform, NL Times. The new restrictions, including the closure of all restaurants and bars, the cancellation of many amateur sports and the prohibition of all events, went into effect on Wednesday. We do not want a repeat of what we experienced in the spring, Dutch Prime Minister Mark Rutte said at a news conference on Tuesday. It is up to us all. Dont be the stubborn person who pushes the boundaries of the rules. Infections in the country have gone up  percent, with almost , new cases in a week. Rutte warned that  percent of regular hospital care would have to be forgone if the numbers keep increasing. In the United Kingdom, Prime Minister Boris Johnson said all that basic stuff like hand washing, social distancing and masks is essential if were going to come out of this and allow people to have anything like a normal Christmas, The London Guardian reported. Martin Hirsch, head of Frances public hospital group, APHP, warned that Paris hospitals could fill  percent of their intensivecare beds by the end of next week, the BBC reported. German Chancellor Angela Merkel said she was watching the situation in Europe with great concern. I must say, the situation continues to be serious, she said. Bulgarian health officials have urged people to wear facemasks on public transport and in indoor spaces, and to maintain social distancing to avoid the need for tougher restrictions since the country reported  new cases on Wednesday, setting a daily record for a fourth time in a week. Japan is also suffering despite a dearth of infections. The number of reported suicides in Japan in September was ,, an increase of , or . percent, compared with the same month in , Japans National Police Agency said. Of the total, , were men, an increase of . percent over September . The total for womenwas up . percent over last year. The NPA said the number of suicides nationwide has risen for three consecutive months since July. The Japanese Health Ministry said the spike in suicides may be due to depression and anxiety brought by the coronavirus, since many people have lost their jobs or have suffered coronavirus fatigue from being cooped up at home without facetoface contact with friends and family, the Tokyobased online newspaper Japan Today reported.