Pandemic surges in Europe
2020/10/15 9:59
? A municipal school security employee, wearing a protective face mask, secures the street in front of the Magnolias primary school during its reopening in Nice, France, on Sept , .  PARIS  In France, one of the European countries hardest hit by the coronavirus resurgence, a curfew will be introduced in big cities and private meetings should be restricted, President Emmanuel Macron ordered on Wednesday. In his first major TV appearance since July, Macron rang the alarm bell on a dangerous virus which starts off again and spreads rapidly in Europe and France while reassuring that the second wave remained under control. We have not lost control. We are in a situation which is worrying and which justifies that we are neither inactive nor in panic. We learned from the first wave, Macron told France  and TF televisions. With the aim to reduce daily new cases to , from the current average of around ,, the French government opted for measures that are pertinent and ruled out a new round of lockdown, which Macron said would be disproportionate. Starting from Friday midnight, a fourweek  pm am curfew will be imposed in great Paris region and eight major cities  Grenoble, Lille, Lyon, AixMarseille, Rouen, Toulouse, Montpellier and SaintEtienne. These regions are already on maximum alert, with bars and gyms shut down, theatres and restaurants under strict health protocol. Gatherings of more than  people are prohibited in public spaces such as beaches and parks. There will not be a traffic ban but a strict restriction of movement for good reasons. We will no longer go to restaurants, to party, to meet friends after  pm, Macron explained. Anyone violating the curfew would be fined  euros , and permissions will be available for those who have health emergencies and work at night, he added. With the school midterm holidays starting soon, Macron ruled out travel restrictions, urging citizens to remain very cautious during family gatherings that he called as a vector of virus acceleration. You can go on vacation ... But if you go with your family, with grandparents, with members of your family who are fragile, it is imperative to respect the rules, he said. The gatherings should be limited to not more than six people in the private sphere, he added. The French president encouraged employers to use teleworking without imposing it as was the case during lockdown. We need companies to function, they need to have a presence at work, we need to have public services, have teachers in the classroom, he said. He also promised that the government will adopt a testing strategy to drastically reduce the delays to have the results. As to the tracing of infections and contacts, Macron acknowledged that the StopCovid mobile application had not worked as expected and announced that a new application would be launched on Oct . We must gradually move towards a strategy across the country, which is test, alert, protect ... We must ramp up throughout November and December to lower the daily new cases to ,. We will have it until the summer of  at least with this virus, said Macron, calling the French people to keep hope and stay clearheaded and united. We must stop those sorts of permanent debates over the facts or the scientific truth ... If we base ourselves on the facts, we can say it is serious, it is serious, lets mobilize. The reason to hope is that we are relearning to be fully a nation, he said. The more each and everyone respects these rules, the more we will manage together to slow down the virus, he stressed. As of Wednesday, further , positive COVID cases were confirmed, up by , compared with Tuesdays. The cumulative number of infections rose to ,, Europes second biggest tally after Spain. Data released by health authorities showed additional  patients were admitted to hospitals, bringing the total to ,, of whom , needed to be put on ventilator. The coronavirusrelated fatalities increased by  to ,. In midMarch when the first wave started to overwhelm hospitals with influx of patients, the government was forced to put the population under strict lockdown to contain the outbreak. Since May restrictive rules had pushed down infections to below , before rebounding during summer holidays.?