New guideline paves way for healthier capital market
2020/10/14 10:56
A staff member wearing a face mask arranges stacks of Chinese yuan banknotes at a bank in Nantong, East Chinas Jiangsu province, on Jan , .  BEIJING  With a new guideline aimed at improving the quality of listed companies, China is reinforcing efforts to better leverage the role of the capital market to support the real economy. The guideline, recently unveiled by the State Council, provides comprehensive, systematic and targeted arrangements for improving the quality of listed companies, said Yan Qingmin, vicechairman of the China Securities Regulatory Commission CSRC, at a press briefing Monday. It details  measures in six areas including better corporate governance, perfecting the exit mechanism and raising penalties for illegal acts. The guideline will facilitate stable and healthy development of the capital market and help it better serve quality development of the real economy, said Yan. While nonfinancial listed companies account for half of the total profits of Chinas major enterprises, the quality of listed firms still falls short of the mark, he said, adding that COVID has affected the operation of some companies and posed new challenges. As of Oct , there were more than , listed companies on the Chinese mainland, with a total market value of around  trillion yuan  trillion, official data showed. As the cornerstone of the capital market, listed firms now face some prominent issues such as sharepledging risks, fund misappropriation and irregular guarantee, according to Yan. The guideline demands strengthening risk control mechanism, setting deadlines for resolving such problems and increasing policy support in response to major emergencies. Previous efforts to tackle the problems proved effective. For instance, outstanding sharepledged financing was down from its peak by over  percent by the end of August, and all other major sharepledging risk indicators showed a turnabout, according to Li Ming, a CSRC official in charge of overseeing listed firms. To crack down on market irregularities, the guideline mandates higher penalties for fraudulent issuance of shares, illegal information disclosure, market manipulation and insider trading. A special campaign will be launched to enhance corporate governance of listed firms, promote best practices and increase transparency, Yan said. Chinas major bourses have promised to step up various efforts. Shanghai Stock Exchange said in a statement it will further reform and improve underlying institutions such as those for registrationbased initial public offerings IPOs, market exits, mergers and restructuring, and refinancing. The quality of listed firms has become more important as the Chinese economy will place heavier reliance on direct financing rather than bank lending, said Dong Dengxin, a finance expert with the Wuhan University of Science and Technology. Meanwhile, with progress in the registrationbased IPO system, Chinas capital market is becoming more tolerant of listed companies, with fewer administrative restrictions. Dong said this requires stronger protection of investors interests. Only by enhancing corporate governance and quality of operation of listed firms can investors be better protected, he said.