What Chinas list of top  firms tells about a changing economy
2020/10/14 9:31
The project department of POWERCHINAs Pangkalan Susu Power Station Project in the northern part of the Sumatra Peninsula in Indonesia has made great efforts in its fight against the COVID epidemic. The project department has established an epidemic prevention and control leader group, which has implemented a series of measures to provide employees with a safe and secure working environment, such as formulating epidemic prevention and control plans, collecting statistics and purchasing epidemic prevention materials, as well as checking employees individually to assess their physical conditions and measure their temperatures. Other measures included site disinfection, epidemic prevention publicity, distribution of protective equipment, and strengthening of realtime monitoring. The project department also set up a material support group, which bought and delivered epidemic prevention materials and medical equipment to the construction site, including masks, goggles, medical gloves, alcohol, gauze, antiepidemic Chinese medicine, conventional diagnosis and treatment equipment, ventilators, as well as epidemic diagnosis ultrasound systems. The project department has introduced hightech preventive measures. Cameras and infrared temperature sensing systems were installed in the camp to detect signals of potential hazards early, drones with highdefinition cameras were installed on the construction site to achieve safety hazard investigations, as well as customized health bracelets were issued to each employee to facilitate daily health monitoring. In addition, daily necessities have been uniformly purchased and distributed to employees to ensure their quality of life. The Susu Power Station is already in commercial operation. Due to the important socioeconomic significance of the project and its impact on peoples livelihoods, all staff members worked hard to ensure the uninterrupted operation of the units during the COVID epidemic, making huge contributions to the stability and efficiency of the North Sumatra power grid. While taking into account the benefits of the enterprise, the project has actively performed corporate social responsibility with practical actions to help the local epidemic prevention and control efforts in Indonesia. It has maintained contacts with government departments and local communities to cooperate with local epidemic prevention measures, donated more than , disposable masks, as well as closed the public areas of local communities. It has also ensured stable employment for local employees during the epidemic, allowing employees to work from home under special circumstances, as well as providing daily necessities, antiepidemic supplies, and epidemic subsidies for Indonesian employees who voluntarily work at the construction site. The construction site of the Pangkalan Susu Power Station Project in the Sumatra Peninsula in Indonesia.  Staff members have a meeting with masks and goggles on.  ?