African countries have begun reopening schools
2020/10/14 0:00
Several African countries reopened their schools on Monday after more than seven months of closure, following an appeal by the United Nations Childrens Fund, or UNICEF, for African governments, parents and teachers to urgently and safely reopen schools. In Kenya, the Ministry of Education partially opened schools, with children in grades four and eight as well as those in the last year of secondary school returning to class on Monday. This ended the prolonged closure of all educational institutions in the country amid the novel coronavirus pandemic. George Magoha, Kenyas cabinet secretary of education, asked parents with children in other classes to start preparing them for reopening in one or two weeks. The ministry will observe the situation in one or two weeks, then we shall recall the other children, Magoha said. It is important to note that procurement processes are not complete for masks. As we prepare to open more schools, we are going to need more masks, he added. The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control urged Nigerias states to conduct coronavirus risk assessments as schools reopened on Monday. In a set of guidelines, the center also advised that risk assessment should be conducted weekly by schools, monthly by local governments and quarterly by states. Schools should ensure that a triage point is identified and wellmarked at the entrance where everyone gaining access to the school is screened for high temperature, requested to wear masks and perform hand hygiene, the guidelines say. Schools should provide learners with a medical status form to be completed by all parents and kept in confidence by the school head. Chike Ihekweazu, directorgeneral of the Nigerian center, said, We are working closely with the federal Ministry of Education and state authorities to make sure that the guidelines issued on school reopening were being followed. In Rwanda, the reopening of institutions of higher learning on Monday followed an assessment done in September by the Education Ministry, which inspected  universities and other higher education institutions to ascertain their readiness. According to the ministry, the reopening of secondary and primary schools is expected in November. The African nations that just reopened their schools join a growing list of countries on the continent that have decided to allow students to return to school, including South Africa, Cameroon, Tunisia and the Democratic Republic of Congo. In September, UNICEF issued a warning that the continued closure of schools across Africa, although aimed at keeping students safe from COVID, was harming them in other ways. The impact of extended education disruption is significant. It includes among others things poor nutrition, stress, increased exposure to violence and exploitation, childhood pregnancies, and overall challenges in mental development of children due to reduced interaction related to school closures, UNICEF said. According to UNICEF, in East Africa, Ethiopia and Uganda have not yet reopened schools but plan to reopen in November. All schools in Southern Africa have partially or fully reopened, while in Central and West Africa, just one in three countries have reopened schools, UNICEF said. otiatochinadaily.com.cn Students joke around and play at Olympic Primary School in the Kibera area of Nairobi, the Kenyan capital, on Monday. BRIAN INGANGAAP