Europe eyes stricter measures as countries set alltime daily records
2020/10/13 9:30
A woman wearing a protective face mask walks past a closed restaurant in Paris, before the announcement of new COVID restrictions by Paris authorities as the coronavirus disease COVID outbreak continues in France, Oct , .  BRUSSELS  From new alert system to local lockdown, European countries have been stepping up efforts to contain the resurgent wave of COVID as they record the highest daily cases ever and the cumulative cases in the region exceed seven million. As of Monday afternoon, Europe had registered , new COVID cases in a hour period, raising its total to ,,, according to the latest data from the World Health Organization WHO. In recent weeks, a number of European countries have recorded a sharp rise in new COVID cases, with some even breaking daily records at the peak of the pandemic earlier this year. France, one of the hardesthit in Europe, registered , new cases in a single day on Oct , hitting an alltime high. This is in stark contrast to an average daily infection of some , in the first half of April when the spread of the coronavirus was accelerating and the epidemic started to overwhelm hospitals. British Prime Minister Boris Johnson said on Monday that the number of cases in his country had quadrupled over the past three weeks and there were more people in hospital now with the respiratory disease than when the country went into lockdown in March. The country reported another , cases in the past  hours, raising the total to ,. Germany, which has been widely considered as a model in Europe when it comes to the tackling of COVID, registered , cases in the past  hours, taking the total to , on Monday. Last week, daily infections in the country rose sharply, peaking at more than , on Oct . With a population of some  million, Belgium has seen an almost exponential increase in the number of COVID cases, totaling , to date. The Sciensano national public health institute has reported a daily average of , new cases in the past seven days, a weekonweek increase of  percent. And the National Crisis Center estimated Monday that the country could reach , new infections per day by the end of this week. Amid the new wave of surging cases, European countries have been tightening restrictions to get a hold on the coronavirus, with several major countries rolling out new measures on Monday. Johnson announced that a new threelevel COVID alert system will be implemented across England. Under the new rules, the country is divided into medium, high or very highrisk categories. Very high risk areas will see pubs, gyms, bars and casinos shut, with all but essential travel banned. Noting that France is in a strong second wave, French Prime Minister Jean Castex said that his government would envisage all options, including local confinement to slow down the rapid circulation of the virus and avoid strain in health institutions. He also announced that a new version of StopCovid, the app for tracking coronavirus patients, would be launched on Oct. . With a cumulative caseload of ,, Italy is set to impose new restrictions on social life. Health Minister Roberto Speranza said that the new rules would include limits or a full ban on parties at home, as well as a prohibition for people to linger outside bars, clubs, and stores in order to avoid gatherings. Also on Monday, Croatia announced that wearing a mask is now required in all public indoor settings where a minimal twometer distance can not be maintained. According to the WHO, face masks should be used as part of a comprehensive set of measures to suppress COVID transmission and save lives. Since the beginning of the COVID outbreak in early , wearing masks in public has been widely accepted in Asian countries like China, South Korea, Japan and Vietnam. On Monday night, the Czech government announced more restriction measures to curb the spread of the virus, after the country had declared a state of emergency last week. According to new rules, starting from Wednesday, all types of schools except for kindergartens will be closed in the country until Nov . Restaurants, bars and clubs will stay closed until the end of the state of emergency scheduled for Nov , and the drinking of alcohol in public places will also be banned.