The show will go on
2020/10/12 9:16
All overseas exhibitors and participants attending the upcoming third China International Import Expo to be held in Shanghai from Nov  to  will be subject to closeloop management, the municipal government said on Sunday. These inbound travelers must obey a day selfhealth monitoring prior to their departure for China. Upon their arrival in the country, all of them need to make a health declaration, have their temperature taken, and go through nucleic acid tests. Anyone found with a fever or cough will be sent by ambulance on site to designated hospitals for health screening and treatment. All such exhibitors and exhibition participants will be subject to a days quarantine at designated hotels, and will undergo nucleic acid tests two more times on the fifth and th day, respectively, during their quarantine periods. Those who test negative and do not show any health problems during the entire procedure will end quarantine and leave to participate in the exhibition, according to the government announcement. It also said quarantine measures will be carried out on all imported items for the CIIE, and food items from cold chain logistics will be subject to standardized sampling, monitoring and disinfection. Important guests from overseas, as well as exhibitors and participants from other provinces or municipalities that are at high or mediumrisk of spreading the virus will stay at designated hotels during the CIIE. All of them need to report their temperatures on a daily basis, and those who run a fever will not be allowed to enter the exhibition venue. The government said all local participants at the exhibition must hold a valid negative nucleic acid test report within seven days before entering the exhibition venue. Rigorous cleaning and disinfection will be carried out at the exhibition halls. All people entering the exhibition areas must wear masks during their entire visit, and the number of people in the exhibition halls will not be allowed to exceed  percent of the maximum capacity of the venue. ?