Captive breeding of  wild animals to be phased out
2020/10/12 9:02
The first batch of Chinese francolin raised after the shift from bamboo rats is ready to hit the market in Hezhou, Guangxi Zhuang autonomous region, in late August.?ZUO DEQIANGFOR CHINA DAILY Captive breeding of  types of wild animals, including bamboo rats, will be phased out by the end of this year, the National Forestry and Grassland Administration said recently. The administration recently released a notification classifying  wild animals that are banned from consumption in two catalogs to further manage wild animal breeding and guide breeders to explore other business opportunities. The first catalog includes  animals, including bamboo rats, masked palm civets, porcupines and green bamboo snakes, with farms raising them to be closed by the end of this year. Local forestry departments will only certify a very limited number of farms raising the  animals for the purpose of keeping the species alive, the notification said. Another  wild animals, including hedgehogs, guinea pigs, nutrias and cobras, will be allowed to be raised in farms, but stricter regulation of farming and quarantine inspections will be required. While consumption of the second group of  animals is banned, they can be raised for species protection, scientific study, medical use and the pet industry. The administration urged local forestry and grassland departments to guide farmers to stop captive breeding and finish disposing of their animals by the end of this year. Gan Yuanchun, a lawyer and an adviser to the Hunan Cuisine Industry Promotion Committee, said many breeders remain worried about economic losses stemming from the ban and the future of their animalbreeding businesses. The categorization will serve as a relatively concrete and practical guidance that local authorities can rely on to help breeders leave wild animal breeding, he said. After the COVID outbreak began late last year, a campaign to ban the eating of wild animals was initiated across the country. On Feb , the Standing Committee of the National Peoples Congress passed a resolution banning the trading and consumption of wildlife. Twentyfive provinciallevel regions have launched measures to rectify wild animal breeding and  have formulated compensation plans to support farmers who used to raise wild animals, the administration said. Wild animal breeding has been a key poverty alleviation project in povertystricken areas such as parts of Guangxi Zhuang autonomous region, which produces  percent of the countrys captivebred snakes and  percent of its bamboo rats. Local authorities have been trying different measures to stop wild animal breeding while also ensuring that farmers incomes remain sustainable. They include creating new job opportunities, providing skills training, exploring new business opportunities and compensation payments. In Hezhou, Guangxi,  villages that used to raise bamboo rats are shifting their business to the raising of Chinese francolin, a type of game bird, with , of the birds gradually becoming a major pillar of the local economy. Wen Jincai, who owns a Chinese francolin farm in Zhaoping county, Hezhou, said the profit from each bird was about . to  yuan . to .. A farm that could raise , bamboo rats could raise about , Chinese francolins, he said. It means a small family farm covering an area of  square meters can make an annual income of , to , yuan, Wen said. Chinese francolin also mature more quickly, taking just  days compared with six months for a bamboo rat. Although the profits from the new business are promising, Wen said many people are taking a waitandsee attitude. We suggested village officials visit established farms in Guangdong province and introduce the latest technology to further boost the new industry, he said.