Fresh waves fuel lockdown woes
2020/10/12 9:00
COVID rebound, rising cases across Europe, Americas put severe strain on health services ? A man receives the coronavirus disease COVID test, distributed by the Wisconsin National Guard at the United Migrant Opportunity Services center, as cases spread in the Midwest, in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, US, Oct , .  Second and third waves of the novel coronavirus are hitting various parts of the world, prompting health authorities to consider new lockdowns to deal with the pandemic, according to latest reports. COVID cases continued to climb in at least  countries, with more than . million reported infections and . million reported deaths from the coronavirus worldwide as of Sunday, figures from health authorities showed. Coronavirus infections in the United States are much higher than the . million recorded so far by Johns Hopkins University and the COVID Tracking Project focusing on the outbreak, according to Tom Frieden, former director of the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Almost certainly there have actually been more than  million people infected by this virus in the US, Frieden said on Saturday during a CNN news town hall event. And thats why there have been well over , deaths, said Frieden, who also predicted that with the current surge in cases across the country, as many as , more people could die from the virus by the end of the month. Europes second wave of coronavirus infections also struck well before flu season started, with intensive care wards filling up again and bars shutting down, according to Associated Press reports. Record high daily infections in several Eastern European countries and sharp rebounds in the hardhit West have made clear that Europe never really crushed the COVID curve as hoped, after springtime lockdowns, AP reported. Last week, Spain declared a state of emergency for Madrid amid increasing tensions between local and national authorities over virus containment measures. Germany offered soldiers to help with contact tracing in newly flaring hot spots, while Italy mandated masks outdoors and warned that for the first time since the country became the European epicenter of the pandemic, the health system was facing significant critical issues as hospitals filled up, AP reported. Jonathan VanTam, Englands deputy chief medical officer, warned that the United Kingdom has reached a tipping point in its coronavirus epidemic similar to that last seen in March. In a statement published on Sunday, VanTam said the UK is in a different position than it was during the first wave because we are now going into the colder, darker winter months, according to the BBC. We are in the middle of a severe pandemic and the seasons are against us. Basically, we are running into a headwind, he said. Tensions are rising in cities where new restrictions have been reimposed, with hundreds of Romanian hospitality workers alone holding protests this week after Bucharest once again shut down the capitals indoor restaurants, theaters and dance venues. Brazils health ministry said the number of people who died from COVID in the country has passed ,, the BBC reported. Brazil has by far the highest number of deaths in South America and Sao Paulo has been the worst hit. Brazil has the secondhighest coronavirus death toll in the world, after the US, and the thirdhighest number of cases after the US and India. Brazils total infections passed  million cases earlier last week. Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro has been accused of downplaying the risks of the virus throughout the pandemic, ignoring expert advice on restrictive measures. In Colombia, the next worsthit country in South America, more than , people have died and there have been at least , confirmed cases. In Asia, the average number of new infections reported in Malaysia has been consistently increasing for  days, according to Reuters data, while India leads the world in the daily average number of new infections reported, accounting for one in every  infections reported worldwide each day. Myanmar reported , new cases of coronavirus on Saturday in a record daily rise, along with  new deaths. As Iran battles a third wave of coronavirus infections, Iranian President Hassan Rouhani announced on Saturday that mask wearing is mandatory in public in Teheran and violators will be fined. The pandemic has severely hit the global economy, with poverty levels also increasing and inequality accelerating between and within countries, according to the World Economic Forum. Up to  million people could slip into extreme poverty, living on less than . a day, by late next year depending on how badly economies shrink during the public health crisis, according to World Bank estimates.