BYD newenergy vehicle sales up  in September
2020/10/12 7:18
Test tube with Corona virus name label is seen in this illustration taken on Jan , .  During a Sept  ABC News town hallstyle event, US President Donald Trump told host George Stephanopoulos that even without a vaccine, COVID would go away. Trump also said Youll develop herdlike a herd mentality. Its going to beits going to be herddeveloped, and thats going to happen. What Trump was referring to, and misnamed, is herd immunity, which a population develops when so many of its members are infected by or vaccinated against a given contagion that a bulwark of resistance counters the contagions spread. But to base a pandemicresponse strategy on the assumption that herd immunity is inevitablevaccine or no vaccineis to afford a virus a path of least resistance. That was the case in Sweden, where policymakers decided to forego lockdowns and business closures in favor of more lenient advisories on maskwearing and social distancing. Unsurprisingly, Swedens subsequent COVID infection and fatality rates were among the worlds highest. Moreover, the Swedish economy contracted by . percent in the second quarter of  compared with the previous three monthsan important outcome to note given the emphasis that many proponents of herd immunity place on reviving economic growth. One such supporter is Scott Atlas, a recently appointed pandemic adviser to Trump who has advocated the socalled Swedish model on Fox News. We like the fact that theres a lot of cases, Atlas said in one interview. Thats exactly how were going to get herd immunity, population immunity. Although Atlas has no epidemiological credentials or experience, he does seem to have the ear of the presidentas evidenced by the latters remarks on herd mentality. On Aug , Trump made similarly pointedyet evasivecomments to Fox Newss Laura Ingraham. Once you get to a certain number, we use the word herd, right? he said. Once you get to a certain number, its going to go away. Theres just one problem When it comes to coronaviruses, that certain number doesnt exist. Research in recent decades has established time and time again that certain coldcausing coronaviruses can infect a person more than once, as many as three or four times, according to a sixyear study conducted in Kenya. With SARSCoV and MERSCoV, the culprits of the last two lethal coronavirus epidemics, longterm research was too sparse and underfunded to verify their capacity for reinfection. But two scientific case studiesone on a patient in Hong Kong, and another still undergoing peer review on a patient in Nevada, UShave already confirmed that the SARSCoV virus that causes COVID can reinfect an individual. These studies show that our immunity to coronaviruses is alarmingly shortlived and quick to fadea disappearing act that makes building protection to SARSCoV difficult enough for an individual, much less an entire population. The day after Trumps ABC News town hall, MSNBCs Rachel Maddow ran the numbers on how herd immunity would play out in the United States, which has a population of roughly  million. If reaching herd immunity requires a minimum of  percent of people to be infected, as the World Health Organizations chief scientist Soumya Swaminathan, has said, that would mean  million cases of COVID countrywide. If the US fatality rate remained what it is nowclose to  percentit would also mean ,, deaths. I have previously called herd immunity a reckless and ineffective strategy. Now that COVID reinfections are not just a possibility but a reality, I would add lethal to my description. The White House is no longer even recommending that states do things to stop the spread of this virusthings that just weeks ago they were telling the states they needed to do, Maddow said. When its not just what Trump is saying, but what hes doing, we have to recognize this as a huge deal. White House press secretary Kayleigh McEnany and Atlas himself have categorically denied that the US administration has adopted herd immunity as a strategy. But the words and actions of their boss, who continued to eschew and mock preventive measures as basic as wearing a face maskand who tested positive for COVIDtell a different story. Whether you call it herd immunity or herd mentality, the science remains the same. With coronaviruses, such an approach is not and never should be an option. The author, a scientist, biotech entrepreneur and infectious disease expert, is chair and president of the global health think tank ACCESS Health International. Project Syndicate The views dont necessarily reflect those of China Daily. If you have a specific expertise and would like to contribute to China Daily, please contact us at opinionchinadaily.com.cn , and commentchinadaily.com.cn