China to stabilize employment, boost NEV industry
2020/10/12 0:00
WASHINGTONUS President Donald Trump appeared back to his old self on Saturday as he addressed supporters at the White House in his first public event since being diagnosed with COVID, and his doctor said he was no longer a transmission risk. Trump took a test on Saturday, which showed he was no longer a transmission risk to others, his physician Sean Conley said in a statement issued seven hours after the White House event. The tests showed there was no longer evidence of actively replicating virus, he added. The White House had no immediate comment on whether Conleys statement meant Trump had tested negative for the coronavirus, which has infected nearly . million people in the United States and killed more than ,. Trump and his administration have faced criticism for their handling of the pandemic, as well as for a lax approach to maskwearing and social distancing in the White House. At least  of his close aides have tested positive for the virus. Standing alone and not wearing a mask, Trump spoke from a White House balcony. He was admitted to hospital for treatment of COVID on Oct  and returned to the White House last Monday. The Republican president, who is trailing Democratic challenger Joe Biden in national polls, urged a crowd of hundreds of largely black and Latino supportersmost wearing masks but not following social distancing guidelinesto help get out the vote in the Nov  presidential election. Campaign trail Eager to get back on the campaign trail after an absence of more than a week, Trump planned to travel to the key battleground state of Florida on Monday, followed by rallies in Pennsylvania and Iowa on Tuesday and Wednesday, respectively. Im feeling great, he told the crowd. Speaking firmly and with no sign of the raspy throat evident in recent interviews, Trump delivered a shorterthanusual campaign speech. He hailed his own record in fighting crime and boosting the US economy, while flagwaving supporters cheered and chanted We love you. A fleshcolored bandage was visible on his right hand. While Trumps doctor had cleared him to resume public engagements from Saturday, other medical experts said the timeline appeared to be rushed. Doctor Sandy Nelson, an infectious diseases specialist at Massachusetts General Hospital, said public health guidelines allowed those with mild cases of COVID to resume contacts  days after the onset of symptoms and after  hours with no fever, without the use of feverreducing medications. But for people who were admitted to hospital and required oxygen, such as Trump, the guidelines generally called for isolation of longer than  days and up to  days, she said. Its fair to say that hes meeting the timebased criteria, but those criteria are not designed for people who are hospitalized. In his statement on Saturday, Conley said Trumps tests revealed decreasing viral loads and decreasing and now undetectable subgenomic mRNA. He provided no further details. Nelson, who is also a professor at Harvard Medical School, said the reference to mRNA was puzzling since the test was not used outside research applications. It was the first time Trump had appeared in public since his discharge from the hospital last Monday, when some observers said he appeared at times to be short of breath. The White House has released videos and Trump has called into television shows since then, but this was supporters first chance to see him live. The White House has not disclosed when Trump last tested negative for COVID. Agencies Via Xinhua