Beijing Auto Show features abundance of new launches
2020/10/11 13:49
US President Donald Trump, with bandages seen on his hand, takes off his face mask as he comes out on a White House balcony to speak to supporters gathered on the South Lawn for a campaign rally that the White House is calling a peaceful protest in Washington, Oct , .  WASHINGTON  US President Donald Trump, who tested positive for COVID on Oct , is no longer considered a transmission risk to others, his doctor said on Saturday as the president prepared to resume campaign rallies. In a new memo on the presidents status, White House physician Sean Conley wrote that he made the assessment following a COVID PCR sample this morning by currently recognized standards, but did not disclose when Trump last had a negative test result. Now at day  from symptom onset, feverfree for well over  hours and all symptoms improved, the assortment of advanced diagnostic tests obtained revealed there is no longer evidence of actively replicating virus, Conley said of the president, promising to continue to monitor the president clinically as he returns to an active schedule. The yearold tested positive for the virus on Oct  and was later hospitalized for three days before returning to the White House with continued treatment. In the wake of Trumps infection, a number of White House staff have also confirmed positive for the virus. Top US expert Anthony Fauci on Friday identified a White House ceremony unveiling presidents Supreme Court nominee on Sept , as a superspreader event for COVID. After completing a therapy and being medically cleared by Conley, Trump made his first public appearance since infection at the White House on Saturday afternoon by addressing hundreds of supporters from the Truman Balcony. Im feeling great, the president said, while declaring COVID is disappearing in the Untied States despite that dozens of states are reporting rising numbers of cases. Over the past week, there have been an average of , cases per day in the United States, an increase of  percent from the average two weeks ago, according to a tally by The New York Times. The virus has infected more than . million people and killed , in the country, showed a dashboard run by Johns Hopkins University. Trump will hit the presidential campaign trail on Monday with a rally in Sanford, Florida.