At least threequarters of Britons fail to selfisolate report
2020/10/10 21:57
A shopper wears a face mask in Old Bond Street, amid the coronavirus disease COVID outbreak, in London, Britain, July , .  LONDON  At least threequarters of people in Britain who have COVID or are a contact of somebody who has tested positive have failed to fully selfisolate, local media reported. Advisers from the British governments Scientific Advisory Group for Emergencies SAGE have warned that only between  percent and  percent of people who needed to were selfisolating, according to a report by The Guardian newspaper. Others were still going out to work or to shop despite the risks of infecting others, the report added, quoting figures from the Corsair study, with data collected every week from March to August. On Sept , the British government announced a grant of  pounds about . US dollars to those with low incomes who are told to selfisolate for two weeks, and fines of up to , pounds about ,. US dollars for anyone who disobeyed. Britain has continued to see a sharp rise in coronavirus infections as another , people have tested positive, bringing the total number of coronavirus cases in the country to ,, according to official figures released Friday. The coronavirusrelated deaths rose by  to ,, the latest data showed. Pressure is mounting on British Prime Minister Boris Johnson to consider tighter restriction measures. New measures to tackle coronavirus are expected to be announced early next week, with pubs and restaurants likely to be closed in the worstaffected areas of England. To bring life back to normal, countries, such as Britain, China, Russia and the United States, are racing against time to develop coronavirus vaccines. The British governments Chief Scientific Adviser Patrick Vallance has said that it is possible that some vaccine could be available in small amounts later this year, but it is more likely that a vaccine will be available early next year, although that is not guaranteed.