Peru leader inspects POWERCHINA hospital renovation project
2020/10/10 16:29
The President of Peru, Martin Vizcarra, on Oct  paid a visit to the renovation project for Saint Michel Hospital in the countrys Ayacucho region, being carried out by Sinohydro Bureau  Co, a unit of POWERCHINA. The president learned in detail about the projects current progress and he urged POWERCHINA to overcome the impact of the COVID epidemic and complete the construction on time, to the guaranteed quality. Peruvian President Martin Vizcarra visits the construction site of Saint Michel Hospital on Oct .  A representative from the Ayacucho regional government highly praised POWERCHINA and said the hospital renovation project was a key social welfare project of the regional government. On completion, it will be equipped with modern medical equipment and professionals, allowing local people to enjoy more highquality and convenient medical services, he added. The overall POWERCHINA project includes the renovation of four hospitals in the Ayacucho region. After they are finished, they will provide quality of care and efficient medical services to the entire Ayacucho Region, radically transforming the current poor medical conditions there. The Saint Michel Hospital project will be completed in July . The contractors have completed  percent of the planned renovation. When it goes back into service, the hospital will provide emergency rooms, operating rooms,  consultation rooms and  beds, benefiting more than , residents. In the wake of the release of an economic recovery plan on May  by the Peruvian government, the POWERCHINA project department has steadily picked up the pace of construction on the project, while carefully following novel coronavirus pandemic prevention and control measures. The construction site comes equipped with fulltime doctors and nurses who measure the body temperatures of employees every day, monitor their health at all times and distribute epidemic prevention materials, such as medical alcohol, masks and gloves. ?