Both F practices canceled, no st drive for Schumacher
2020/10/10 10:06
NRBURG, Germany  Both Friday practice sessions for the Eifel Grand Prix were canceled because of bad weather, keeping Michael Schumachers son Mick from his first official drive as part of a Formula One race weekend. ? Mercedes Valtteri Bottas as weather delays practice of the Eifel Grand Prix of the Formula One in?Nurburgring, Nurburg, Germany, October , .  Low clouds and mist made for poor visibility around the Nrburgring track. It was declared unsafe to deploy the medical helicopter because of unfavorable weather between the track and nearest hospital. The helicopter is required under F safety rules and must be able to fly any casualties to the hospital at high speed. With the fog thats come in, the medical helicopter is not able to take off and fly to the hospital, race director Michael Masi said during the first session. The distance by road is far too far should something occur. A third practice session is scheduled for Saturday before qualifying. Cold and wet weather is expected for all three days of the race weekend at the hilly, forested Nrburgring track in western Germany. Team staff wore large coats and wool hats along with their mandatory masks, while spectators tried to keep warm in the stands. Teams have little knowledge of how the tires will behave in the unusually cold weather on a track which hasnt been used by F for seven years. Drivers had plenty of time to kill. Renault published a video of Daniel Ricciardo playing basketball with a ball of rolledup paper and a garbage can. Williams George Russell performed soccer tricks with a rubber duck and his teammate Nicholas Latifi fetched coffee and tea for the mechanics. Championship leader Lewis Hamilton is aiming to win his st career F race on Sunday. That would put him equal with Michael Schumachers record. However, preparations at Hamiltons Mercedes team have been disrupted by the coronavirus. Mercedes said Friday a second crew member had tested positive for the virus, following a first positive case Thursday, and that a third person gave an inconclusive result. Six backup crew members have flown in from Britain to replace those who are in quarantine either following a positive test or because of their contact with people who were positive. Formula Two standings leader Mick Schumacher was scheduled to take part in the first practice session for the first time, borrowing Antonio Giovinazzis Alfa Romeo. Another F title challenger, British driver Callum Ilott, was with the Haas team for the session, assigned to Romain Grosjeans car. Both Schumacher and Ilott are part of Ferraris development program and they were placed with teams which use Ferrari engines. Its unclear when they might get another chance to join a team for practice. The next three races are all on tracks which are either new to F, like Portimao in Portugal, or havent been on the calendar for years, as with Imola in Italy and Istanbul in Turkey. The regular drivers will need time to learn them. Mick Schumacher met with fourtime champion Sebastian Vettel in the pit lane Friday and Vettel showed the younger German his helmet for the race, which bears a tribute to Michael Schumacher, and they shared a fist bump. More AP sports httpsapnews.comapfsports and httpstwitter.comAPSports