European countries see record daily spike in COVID cases
2020/10/9 16:04
A woman makes phone call outside a closed cafe in Brussels, Belgium, Oct , .  BRUSSELS  Europe is struggling with a new surge in COVID cases, with countries hitting record daily highs. Europe registered , new COVID cases in the past  hours, taking its total to ,, with , deaths, according to the World Health Organization Thursday. The European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control added Thursday ten more countries to its red list on its coronavirus map, meaning those countries have crossed the threshold of  infections per , people in the past two weeks. SITUATION NOT OPTIMISTIC Germanys COVID cases jumped by , in the past  hours to reach ,, the first time that the number of new daily infections in the country has soared past , since early April. A further , people have tested positive for COVID in a hour span in France, the second consecutive day that the countrys daily number of COVID cases topped ,. Infections in Britain have reached record levels with over , new cases reported Thursday. The Czech Republic reported , new coronavirus cases Wednesday, its highest oneday tally since the pandemic started. The rise surpassed a previous record of , reported the previous day. The average number of new infections reported in Belgium has been increasing for seven days straight, with a record daily surge of , over the past day. Poland reported a record of , daily coronavirus cases Thursday as well as a new daily record of  deaths related to the disease. Austria reported its biggest daily increase in COVID cases on record as a further , people tested positive in the past  hours, the highest number since the pandemic broke out. Furthermore, Croatia, Slovenia and Latvia also saw a record daily spike in COVID cases. STRICT CONTROLS The German capital introduced its first curfew in  years for businesses on Tuesday. Starting from Saturday, restaurants, bars, local shops and other businesses will have to shut between  p.m. local time and  a.m. French Health Minister Olivier Veran announced Thursday that four more cities in the country, namely Lille, Grenoble, Lyon and SaintEtienne, have reached the maximum coronavirus alert zone and must implement stricter restrictions from Saturday morning, while Marseille and Guadeloupe were already on maximum alert from Sept.  and Paris from early this week. British Communities Secretary Robert Jenrick said Thursday that the government was currently considering what steps to take. New measures to tackle coronavirus are expected to be announced in the coming days, which could see pubs and restaurants closed in the worstaffected areas of England, according to the BBC. Polish Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki said Thursday that the wearing of face masks will be mandatory in all public spaces and commercial buildings across the country starting from Saturday. The Czech Republic imposed Thursday new restrictions for the next  days as the country is now under another day state of emergency, which begun on Monday. Restaurants and bars will have to close at  p.m. and a maximum four people will be allowed per table starting from Friday. Furthermore, all theaters, cinemas and zoos will be closed for at least two weeks starting from next Monday. The Belgian capital moved to restore its coronavirus lockdown when Brussels ordered cafes and bars to close for a month from Thursday.