Domestic air travel rebounds over holiday
2020/10/9 14:39
? Passengers wearing face masks line up to check in at the Beijing Daxing International Airport ahead of Chinese National Day holiday, in Beijing, on Sept , .  Domestic air travel during the National Day and MidAutumn Festival holiday almost reached the same level as last year, signaling a strong recovery for local tourism, the national aviation authority said on Friday. A total of . million airline passenger trips were made during the eightday holiday, equal to  percent of last years air travel over the period, the Civil Aviation Administration of China said. The total number of passenger flights during the holiday was about ,, with nearly , of those domestic flights. While the number of daily passenger flights was  percent of last years level, the number of domestic flights increased by nearly  percentage points over the period, the CAAC said. Because of the effective control of the COVID epidemic in the country, people have demonstrated a markedly stronger desire to travel during the holiday, the CAAC said. Bookings and the passenger load factor for flights in and out of popular cities in China for tourists have neared or reached last years level, signaling a strong recovery in terms of demand for domestic tourist destinations. On Sept , the day before the holiday began, over . million airline passenger trips were made  the highest for a single day since the COVID outbreak at the start of the year. Airports in Shanghai, Beijing, Chongqing, Chengdu in Sichuan province, Xian in Shaanxi province and Guangzhou and Shenzhen in Guangdong province were among the busiest during the holiday. The overall passenger load factor, especially in Lhasa in the Tibet autonomous region, Tianjin, and cities in Zhejiang and Guangdong provinces, also increased during the holiday and averaged about  percent, the administration added. Due to a boost in domestic travel and restrictions on international trips caused by the global pandemic, the CAAC said it had focused on managing domestic flights over the holiday. Over , domestic flights were added from Sept  to Oct  to meet the requirements of travelers while ensuring safe and smooth air travel.