Trump completes therapy for COVID doctor
2020/10/9 11:13
? US President Donald Trump poses atop the Truman Balcony of the White House after taking off his protective face mask as he returns to the White House after being hospitalized at Walter Reed Medical Center for coronavirus disease COVID treatment, in Washington, US October , .  WASHINGTON  US President Donald Trump has completed the therapy for his COVID infection, his doctor announced on Thursday. Trumps physical exam has remained stable and devoid of any indications to suggest progression of illness since returning to the presidential residence on Monday after three days in hospital, White House physician Sean Conley said in a new memo. Overall hes responded extremely well to treatment, without evidence on examination of adverse therapeutic effects, Conley wrote. Trump tested positive for COVID on Oct  and the coming Saturday would be day  since the diagnosis. Based on the trajectory of advanced diagnostics the team has been conducting, I fully anticipate the Presidents safe return to public engagements at that time, Conley said. After infection, Trump experienced a high fever and two drops in his oxygen level. He was given the antiviral medication Remdesivir, antiinflammatory steroid dexamethasone and an experimental antibody cocktail produced by US drug maker Regeneron during his treatment. The doctor said that, as of Thursday afternoon, Trumps heart rate was  beats per minute, his blood pressure  mmHg, his respiratory rate  breaths per minute and his pulse oximetry showed a blood oxygen level of  percent with room air. However, the White House has repeatedly refused to disclose when Trump last had a negative test result. Trump, whos seeking reelection and is trailing  Democratic presidential nominee Joe Biden in polls, has been eager to get back to work and resume rallies. He worked from the Oval Office on Wednesday and Thursday despite concerns that he may still be contagious. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommends that individuals selfisolate for at least  days after the onset of symptoms from COVID, which has infected about . million people and killed more than , in the United States.