Partnerships with Uruguay key to growth prospects
2020/10/9 10:39
A worker at Uruguays pavilion talks with a visitor in the China International Fair for Trade in Services last month.?ZHANG CHUANQIXINHUA Chinese support, partnerships and investment in Uruguay could be the key to boosting the growth of the South American country, especially in trade. Uruguay has been quite successful in dealing with COVID, in no small measure due to Chinas support. By July, China had sent more than , face masks, thousands of units of protective equipment and tens of thousands of testing kits. We are one of the few countries that has a surplus in trade with China. We sell them more than what China sells to us, said Gabriel Rozman, president of the UruguayChina Chamber of Commerce, adding that while Uruguay is a very small country, China takes us as a serious ally and it takes care of us. Located in the southern part of Latin America and with a population of only . million, Uruguay has , hectares of fertile land, supplying its citizens with enough food and natural resources as well as plenty of agricultural production for export. Exports to China, Uruguays main trade partner, exceeded . billion last year, about  percent of the countrys annual total. Uruguay produces much more food than what it needs to feed . million people. We have food for about  million people, said the chamber president. Uruguay and China have had diplomatic relations in place for  years and this relationship has strengthened in large part on the back of rapidly growing trade related to beef, agricultural commodities and emerging areas like fisheries. Strengthening partnerships with Chinese fishing and infrastructure companies could help the country shore up its fishing industry while helping China source more seafood from the South Atlantic. We look forward to having Uruguayan and Chinese joint ventures again in the fishing sector in particular, to develop the entire sector in which there is much to do, said Francisco Pick, the chief executive officer at Pesaco, an Uruguayan foodstuff trading company. Winwin relationship For Pick, building a winwin relationship with China is not only an option, but an opportunity to resume projects from the past. For example, in  we had an agreement in Uruguay whereby Chinas secondlargest fishing company, Shanghai Fisheries, brought fishing vessels to fish in Uruguay, he recalled. The goal now would be to establish joint ventures to fish together in the South Atlantic. And it is not only a matter of sending fish to China. Deploying Chinese vessels to renew the Uruguayan fishing fleet is a topic of interest for both sides. I say its not just asking China to buy fish from us but also to offer business opportunities to China, said Pick. Apart from Chinas fish purchases, he said Uruguay can offer to buy fishing boats from the Chinese. I think that these exchanges that favor all parties are the better ones, without a doubt. An infrastructure partnership in the countrys capital of Montevideo, supporting Chinese fleets fishing in international waters on the South Atlantic Ocean, could benefit the commercial interests of both countries. Port Capurro is under construction and authorities are looking for partners to manage that port, which will be focused on domestic and international fishing. Perhaps, it could be relevant having a Chinese company or a consortium of Chinese companies driving that port, Pick added. Back on land, the Latin American country is also scouting for larger opportunities in its wool trade with China. The tiny nation has exported over  million worth of wool and its derivatives. The prospect of larger trade with China looks promising. Our field wool and in particular worsted wool, is one of the products that first made its way to the Chinese market, said Nicolas Perez del Castillo, director at Tops Fray Marcos, an Uruguayan textile exporter company. China is a key partner, from which we can say that  percent of the experiences have been very positive, he said. The writer is a freelancer for China Daily.