m infections logged amid resurgence in virus
2020/10/9 0:00
ROMEThe number of people in the world infected with COVID climbed to more than  million as more countries imposed tighter measures to combat a resurgence in the disease. Italy on Wednesday made it mandatory to wear face masks outdoors nationwide in an effort to curb the spread of the coronavirus as new infections jumped to their highest daily tally since April. The decree was approved at a Cabinet meeting after a steady increase in cases over the last two months. It was likely to be effective from Thursday, a government source said. Several Italian regions including Lazio, around the capital of Rome, had already made face masks mandatory. Data from the health ministry showed , cases were reported in the latest hour period, up from , on Tuesday, and surging past the , mark for the first time since April . Italy is still recording far fewer daily cases than other large European countries such as France, Spain and Britain. In France, President Emmanuel Macron is mulling more restrictions to contain the epidemic as the country recorded nearly , new infections on Wednesday, an alltime high for new daily cases. The epidemic continues to increase. The virus continues to circulate rapidly for several weeks,Macron said in a televised interview. In places where the virus is circulating too quickly, notably among the elderly, and where we see more and more beds in emergencies occupied by COVID patients, we must move towards more restrictions as we did in the BouchesduRhone and Paris and its inner suburbs, he added. French Health Minister Olivier Veran was to unveil the new package of measures on Thursday, the president said. Earlier in the week, Paris and three surrounding departments were placed on maximum alert with extra measures which include the closure of bars, pools and gyms. Entertainment facilities including circuses, dance clubs, and trade shows were banned. Spiraling outbreak British Prime Minister Boris Johnson will order pubs and restaurants to shut across much of northern England, including in Manchester and Liverpool, from Monday in a bid to halt the spiraling COVID outbreak there, The Sun newspaper reported on Wednesday. Britain, which has already suffered the highest death toll in Europe, has reported more than , new cases of coronavirus daily in the last two days. The Sun said hospitality areas would shut but schools, offices and shops would remain open. Britains finance ministry is also finalizing a new package of coronavirus support for the stricken hospitality industry, the Financial Times said late on Wednesday. Globally, as of Thursday, there have been more than  million people infected with the novel coronavirus, with more than ,, having died due to the disease, according to a tally kept by the Johns Hopkins University in Maryland in the United States. Brazil passed the mark of  million confirmed COVID cases on Wednesday as it approached , deaths in the deadliest coronavirus outbreak outside the US, which has logged more than , deaths. Though the number of daily cases has come down from a peak in July, public health experts warn that Brazil is ignoring social distancing precautions and faces the danger of rapidly rising cases by people returning to normal everyday life too quickly. Federal University of Rio de Janeiro epidemiologist Roberto Medronho cautioned the numbers could be much higher if testing for COVID was more widespread. Soon we will reach , deaths, a frightening number, he said. We are seeing the authorities easing social distancing more and more despite the number of cases. Other South American countries are also experiencing rising COVID cases, including Argentina, Bolivia and Peru. Xinhua  Agencies ? Even for a wedding rehearsal, safety precautions are part of the procedures at a venue in La Paz, Bolivia, on Wednesday. The country is lifting some coronavirus restrictions. JUAN KARITAASSOCIATED PRESS ? ?