Europeans becoming exhausted by COVID fight
2020/10/7 7:14
US President Donald Trump salutes as he poses without a face mask on the Truman Balcony of the White House after returning from being hospitalized at Walter Reed Medical Center for coronavirus disease COVID treatment, in Washington, October , .? President Donald Trump abruptly halted talks Tuesday with Democrats on passing a second COVID stimulus package until after Election Day. Trump said on Twitter that after I win, we will pass a major Stimulus Bill that focuses on hardworking Americans and Small Business. He said he had told Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell to concentrate on confirming his Supreme Court nominee, Amy Coney Barrett. In a tweet, Trump accused House Speaker Nancy Pelosi of failing to negotiate in good faith after she rejected an opening bid from Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin in their latest round of talks. Pelosi said in a statement after Trumps tweet Walking away from coronavirus talks demonstrates that President Trump is unwilling to crush the virus. I disagree with the President, said Representative John Katko, a New York Republican in a tough reelection race, in a tweet. With lives at stake, we cannot afford to stop negotiations on a relief package. I strongly urge the President to rethink this move. Trumps announcement shook Wall Street. The Dow Jones Industrial Average dropped by  points, losing . percent. The SP  shed . percent and the Nasdaq sank . percent Trumps announcement came hours after Federal Reserve Chairman Jerome Powell warned of potentially tragic economic consequences that could result if Congress and the White House dont provide additional support to households and businesses disrupted by the pandemic. By contrast, the risks of providing too generous relief are smaller, Powell said. Even if policy actions ultimately prove to be greater than needed, they will not go to waste. Trump also announced Tuesday that he will take part in the second presidential debate in Miami on Oct  against his Democratic challenger, former vicepresident Joe Biden. The debate would occur two weeks after Trump tested positive for the coronavirus. However, Biden said Tuesday that the second debate should not be held if Trump is still positive for COVID. I think if he still has COVID, we shouldnt have a debate, Biden told reporters in Maryland. I think were gonna have to follow very strict guidelines. Too many people have been infected and its a very serious problem. Seven of the eight members of the Joint Chiefs of Staff are quarantining after they attended a meeting Friday at the Pentagon with a Coast Guard admiral who has since tested positive for the novel coronavirus, a Pentagon official said. The official said the vicecommandant of the Coast Guard, Admiral Charles Ray, attended a classified meeting in a Pentagon room called the tank on Friday. Ray later tested positive for the virus. Every person in that meeting is now quarantining. The military leaders have been tested, Pentagon spokesman Jonathan Hoffman said in a statement. None have exhibited symptoms so far or have tested positive. Hoffman said senior military leaders are able to remain fully mission capable and perform their duties from an alternative work location. The Food and Drug Administration on Tuesday put out updated stricter safety standards Tuesday for makers of COVID vaccines after White House officials had blocked their release for two weeks. The guidelines would make it almost impossible that a vaccine could be authorized by Election Day, as Trump has promised. On Monday, Trump said vaccines are coming momentarily, in a video recorded after he returned to the White House from being at the Walter Reed National Military Medical Center for treatment of COVID. New York Governor Andrew Cuomo on Tuesday ordered schools and nonessential businesses in parts of Rockland and Orange counties, north of Manhattan, to close because of a surge in coronavirus cases. The new rules also severely limit religious gatherings.