Biden says next debate should not be held if Trump still has COVID
2020/10/6 8:44
Britains Prime Minister Boris Johnson wears a face mask as he gestures outside Downing Street in London, Britain, on Sept , .  EU chief selfisolating after contact with COVID case Paris on maximum alert British Prime Minister Boris Johnson has warned that the United Kingdoms coronavirus pandemic may be bumpy through to Christmas as the country continues to see a sharp rise in infections. Ive got to tell you in all candor its going to continue to be bumpy through to Christmas, it may even be bumpy beyond, he said in an interview with the BBCs Andrew Marr Show. This could be a very tough winter for all of usweve got to face that fact, Johnson said. The prime minister made the remarks as his Conservative Party holds its annual conference online. More than a third of Britains population is now under heightened restrictions, according to the BBC. I dont want to have to impose measures like this,... this is the last thing we want to do. But I also have to save life. And thats our priority, he said. Johnson said a radically different situation may appear by the spring next year. We will find all sorts of ways, Im absolutely sure, particularly through mass testing programs, of changing the way that we tackle this virus. The UK reported a jump in daily COVID cases to a record , on Sunday, after authorities said a technical issue meant that more than , test results had not been transferred into computer systems on time, including for contact tracers. The total number of cases in the UK is ,. On Monday, European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen said she had placed herself in isolation after being in contact with a person infected with the virus. In a message posted on social media, the head of the European Unions executive arm said she took part in a meeting on Sept  that was attended by a person who yesterday tested positive. She was on a twoday trip to Portugal during Sept . She said she tested negative for the virus on Thursday and that she will undergo another test later. In France, Paris is to be placed on a maximum COVID alert, meaning that bars will be required to close for two weeks from Tuesday and restaurants will have to enforce new sanitary protocols to remain open, according to a statement from Prime Minister Jean Castexs office. It said there had been no improvement in the Paris region since the capital passed all three of the governments criteria for being put on the highest level of alert in the middle of last week. Working from home should be prioritized now more than ever in the Paris area and university lecture halls should be no more than half full, said the statement. The reinforced restrictions will take effect from Tuesday. France reported , new cases on Sunday, while  patients had been admitted to intensive care over the past week. Mask mandate Meanwhile, the Italian government is considering whether to make the wearing of masks outdoors mandatory nationwide amid a steady, nineweek increase in infections. Several regions have already imposed outdoor mask mandates in a bid to curb the rebound in infections. On Sunday, Italy reported another , confirmed cases, far fewer new daily infections than in neighboring France or Spain, but cause for concern in the onetime European epicenter of the pandemic. Another  people died, bringing Italys toll to ,, the second highest in Europe after Britain. In Spain, which is experiencing the worst second wave in Europe, a new rapid antigen test has been rolled out. Health authorities in the country say the test gives results in  minutes, is more than  percent accurate in detecting COVID infection, and costs less than . Jonathan Powell in London and agencies contributed to this story.