Trump discharged, doffs mask
2020/10/6 4:50
US President Donald Trump pulls off his protective face mask as he poses atop the Truman Balcony of the White House after returning from being hospitalized at Walter Reed Medical Center for coronavirus disease COVID treatment, in Washington, US on Oct , .  After spending three days in a hospital for COVID treatment, US President Donald Trump returned Monday evening to the White House, where the outbreak has widened with his press secretary becoming the latest to test positive for the novel coronavirus earlier in the day. Trump, , was seen to take off his mask as he walked upstairs to the South Portico balcony of the executive mansion after flying back from Walter Reed National Military Medical Center in Maryland, where he was sent Friday evening after being diagnosed with COVID. In a video clip tweeted less than an hour after his return, Trump said he could have left the medical facility two days ago because he felt better than he had in a long time. But his medical team said Monday afternoon that the president had received two episodes of supplemental oxygen in recent days. I learned so much about coronavirus, Trump said. One thing thats for certain, dont let it dominate you, dont be afraid of it  were back to work, Trump said, echoing an earlier tweet in which he announced he would exit the facility at  pm EDT. Democratic presidential nominee Joe Biden said he hoped that the right lesson could be imparted from the presidents experience. I would hope the president  having gone through what he went through and Im glad he seems to be coming along pretty well  would communicate the right lesson to the American people. Masks matter, the former vicepresident told an NBC News town hall in Miami on Monday evening. White House physician Dr Sean Conley, about half an hour after Trump tweeted his release announcement, told reporters in the afternoon that the president had continued to improve over the past  hours and met or exceeded all standard hospital discharge criteria. Though he may not be entirely out of the woods yet, the team and I agree that all his evaluations, and most importantly, his clinical status support his return home where hell be surrounded by worldclass medical care , the doctor said at a briefing. US President Donald Trump disembarks from Marine One after the president returned from a fourth day of treatment for the coronavirus disease COVID as he arrives on the South Lawn at the White House in Washington, US, Oct , .  Even when discharged, he has yet to finish a fiveday course of an intravenous antiviral drug, remdesivir, by Tuesday, according to Brian Garibaldi, a member of Trumps medical team and a lung specialist. Doctors also have been treating the president with a steroid, dexmethasone, normally used only in the most severe cases, and a dose of an experimental antibody cocktail being developed by US drugmaker Regeneron, according to his medical team. Conley said doctors were in a bit of uncharted territory because Trump had received certain therapies so early in the course of the illness. If we can get through to Monday with him remaining the same or improving, better yet, then we will all take that final, deep sigh of relief, he said. The doctor continued to be evasive to questions about when Trump last tested negative, or if the disease could take any potential toll on the presidents lungs. About  percent of Americans said Trump would not have been infected had he taken the virus more seriously, according to a ReutersIpsos poll released Sunday. Nancy Pelosi, speaker of the House of Representatives, said earlier in the day that she hoped people could hear trustworthy report from Trumps doctors about his release from the hospital, and she was concerned that his returning to the White House was for political reasons. He should not be dealing with it politically to make it look like he overcame the virus because he had such good policies, because in fact he has been very destructive and dangerous to the country, the Democrat told MSNBC. White House press secretary Kayleigh McEnany said on Monday she had tested positive for the virus and was going into isolation. More than a dozen other people who had been in contact with the president or attended White House or campaign events last week also said they had tested positive. They include aide Hope Hicks, Trump campaign manager Bill Stepien, former adviser Kellyanne Conway and former New Jersey governor Chris Christie, who helped Trump prepare for last weeks debate. We have to be realistic in this COVID is a complete threat to the American population, The Associated Press quoted Dr David Nace of the University of Pittsburgh Medical Center, an expert on infections in older adults, as saying. Most of the people arent so lucky as the president, with an inhouse medical unit and access to experimental treatments, Nace added.