Trump eyes quick return despite illness
2020/10/6 0:00
Infected and contagious, US President Donald Trump briefly ventured out in a motorcade on Sunday to salute cheering supporters, a move that disregarded precautions meant to contain the deadly coronavirus that has forced his hospitalization and killed more than , people in the United States. Hours earlier, Trumps medical team reported that his blood oxygen level dropped twice suddenly in recent days and that they gave him a steroid typically only recommended for the very sick. Still, the doctors said Trumps health is improving and that he could be discharged as early as Monday. With one month until election day, Trump was eager to project strength despite his illness. The stillinfectious president surprised supporters who had gathered outside Walter Reed National Military Medical Center, driving by in a black SUV with the windows rolled up. Secret Service agents inside the vehicle could be seen in masks and other protective gear. The move capped a weekend of contradictions that fueled confusion about Trumps health, which has imperiled the leadership of the US government and upended the final stages of the presidential campaign. In a short video released by the White House on Sunday, Trump insisted he understood the gravity of the moment. But his actions moments later, by leaving the hospital and sitting inside the SUV with others, suggested otherwise. This is insanity, Dr James P. Phillips, an attending physician at Walter Reed who is a critic of Trump and his handling of the pandemic. Every single person in the vehicle during that completely unnecessary presidential driveby just now has to be quarantined for  days. They might get sick. They may die. For political theater, he added. Commanded by Trump to put their lives at risk for theater. White House spokesman Judd Deere said Trumps trip outside the hospital was cleared by the medical team as safe to do. He added that precautions were taken, including using personal protective equipment, to protect Trump as well as White House officials and Secret Service agents. Joe Bidens campaign, meanwhile, said the Democratic presidential nominee again tested negative for coronavirus on Sunday. The results came five days after Biden spent more than  minutes on the debate stage with Trump. Biden, who has taken a far more cautious approach to inperson events, had two negative tests on Friday. Trump senior adviser Jason Miller said on Sunday on NBCs Meet the Press that there was no interest in holding remote debates with Biden. The two remaining debates are scheduled for Oct  and Oct . Kate Bedingfield, a deputy campaign manager for Biden, said on ABCs This Week on Sunday that the former vicepresident, , was open to the debates continuing as scheduled, as long as proper health precautions are taken, and Trumps health permits. Concerned agents Even before Trumps motorcade outing on Sunday, some Secret Service agents had expressed concern about the lackadaisical attitude toward masks and social distancing inside the White House, but there isnt much they can do, according to some agents and officials. This close to the election, thousands of agents are engaged on protective duty so they can be subbed out quickly should someone test positive. In all, nearly . million people have been infected in the US, and few have access to the kind of roundtheclock attention and experimental treatments as Trump. Trump is  years old and clinically obese, putting him at higher risk of serious complications. More than  million people have been reported to be infected by the novel coronavirus globally and ,, have died, according to a Reuters tally. Agencies, Xinhua and Heng Weili in New York contributed to this story. ? US President Donald Trump waves from the back of an SUV in a motorcade outside of a hospital in Bethesda, Maryland, on Sunday. ALEX EDELMANAGENCE FRANCEPRESSE ? ?