Britain sees recordbreaking number of virus cases
2020/10/4 21:28
? A man wearing a face mask stands next to a banner, amid the spread of the coronavirus disease COVID, in Middleborough, on Oct , .  Britains Prime Minister Boris Johnson said on Sunday that a recordbreaking spike in novel coronavirus cases across the nation was down to a computing issue that had been rectified. It comes after the United Kingdom government announced on Saturday that more than , new cases had been recorded for the first time since mass testing began. The exact daily figure released was ,, while a further  people have died within  days of testing positive for COVID. The government had previously noted that a technical issue meant some cases over the last seven days were not reported on the day they were recorded, and so these were instead included in Saturdays data. Earlier data had suggested that cases may be rising more slowly than in previous weeks. Speaking to the BBCs Andrew Marr, the prime minister said there had been a failure in the counting system. He also spoke about the impact of local lockdowns to control the virus, suggesting it is too early to say whether localized restrictions are working. We have to wait and see whether the rate of infection starts to come down, he said. Johnson acknowledged there was some public fatigue with limits placed on social and economic life and said he realized that people were furious at me and furious at the government amid continuing restrictions. Ive got to tell you in all candour its going to continue to be bumpy through to Christmas, it may even be bumpy beyond, but this is the only way to do it, he added. He also rejected a suggestion he was suffering from long term effects of his previous COVID infection. He said this was total tittle tattle, it is drivel adding, it is balderdash and nonsense. A scientific study has shown that people who have a certain gene inherited from Neanderthals are more likely to suffer severe forms of COVID. The Associated Press reported that scientists from the Karolinska Institute in Sweden and the Max Plank Institute for Evolutionary Anthropology in Germany examined genes that have been linked to a higher risk of hospitalization and respiratory failure in patients infected with the novel coronavirus. The researchers said the genes belong to a group, or haplotype, which likely came from Neanderthals. They said this haplotype is found in about  percent of the population in Europe and half the population in South Asia, while in Africa and East Asia it is nonexistent. They noted that the prevalence of the gene is highest in people from Bangladesh, where  percent are believed to carry it. In Spain, which is experiencing the worst second wave in Europe, a new rapid antigen test has been rolled out. Health authorities in the country say the test gives results in  minutes, is more than  percent accurate in detecting COVID infection, and costs less than . The Guardian reported last week that  million antigen tests will soon be supplied to low and middle income nations across the world, as part of an initiative launched in March by the WHO, the European Commission, the Gates Foundation and the French government. The newspaper said the tests could allow infectious people to be identified before they have symptoms and go into quarantine. Germanys Chancellor Angela Merkel claimed last week that quick and energetic action by her government on the budget helped to cushion the nation from the economic blow of the pandemic. In a debate on the proposed budget policy, Merkel told Bundestag lawmakers that extra debt the government would be taking on in  was the right thing to do after extra lending of . billion was announced. Merkel defended the policy that, if agreed by the Bundestag, would be the secondhighest sum of new debt ever in modern German history. Meanwhile, zoos are facing extinction as a result of the pandemic, with breeding programs to rescue rare species at risk due to lack of funding. Without immediate government intervention, zoos will struggle to survive the winter, said the British and Irish Association of Zoos and Aquariums. Kathryn England, London Zoo chief operating officer, told the BBCs Today program Were all about conservation and preventing animals from going extinct so its a really horrible place to be where were actually worried ourselves about the reality of going extinct.