Biden to announce plan to fight variant
2021/9/14 9:34
People take subway line  on Sunday as part of the subway system resumed operation in Zhengzhou, Henan province, after a devastating flood in July. WANG WEIFOR CHINA DAILY Services on three of the seven subway lines in Zhengzhou, Henan province, resumed on Sunday after disruptions caused by heavy downpours nearly two months ago. The service intervals on lines ,  and part of line  will be more than six minutes, operator Zhengzhou Metro said. It said it will monitor changes in passenger flows closely and promptly arrange standby trains to meet the demands of the traveling public. Subway stations have also set up baby care rooms and are now equipped with trolleys, emergency umbrellas and medical kits. Subway lines ,  and  and the rest of line  will resume operation on Wednesday, while line  is not ready to resume operation due to the need to replace equipment, it said. In addition to regular security checks, passengers will also need to have their temperatures tested, show valid health codes and wear masks throughout the ride and keep a safe distance inside the carriage. The city was hit by a COVID outbreak in August. Wu Kebiao, an insurance agent in Zhengzhou, said the suspension of subway services had made life and work less convenient. He used to spend  minutes traveling to work every day, but the commuting time almost doubled after the subway was suspended and he had to drive a car to work. During that period, I usually had to get to my destination  minutes earlier because of the increased number of people driving after the subway shut down, which often caused traffic jams and made it difficult to find a parking space, Wu said. Zhengzhou Metro said its daily passenger traffic accounted for more than  percent of the public transport trips in Zhengzhou, which has more than  million residents. The heavy rain in July caused  deaths in Henan province. Fourteen people died on July  when Zhengzhous line  was inundated, according to the provincial government. All of the subway lines in Zhengzhou were shut down for repairs after the downpour. Since Aug , the citys transport department has entrusted two companies to carry out safety evaluations. They completed the evaluation of six lines by Sept  and issued a report approving the resumption of services on them.