Trump to move to military medical facility for the next few days as a precaution official
2020/10/3 5:38
US President Donald Trump arrives at Walter Reed National Military Medical Center by helicopter after the White House announced that he will be working from the presidential offices at Walter Reed for the next few days after testing positive for the coronavirus disease COVID, in Bethesda, Maryland, US, October , .  WASHINGTON  US President Donald Trump moved to a military hospital for treatment on Friday after being diagnosed with COVID as his administration and reelection campaign scrambled to adjust to an extraordinary twist in his turbulent presidency. Roughly  hours after he announced he had tested positive for the coronavirus, Trump walked slowly from the White House to a waiting helicopter to be taken to Walter Reed National Military Medical Center in Bethesda, Maryland. He wore a mask and business suit and did not speak to reporters. I think Im doing very well, but were going to make sure that things work out, Trump said in a brief video posted to Twitter. Trump will work in a special suite at the hospital for the next few days as a precautionary measure, White House press secretary Kayleigh McEnany said. Trump, , has a mild fever, according to a source familiar with the matter. White House doctor Sean P. Conley said he is being treated with an experimental drug cocktail and is fatigued but in good spirits. It was the latest setback for the Republican president, who is trailing Democratic rival Joe Biden in opinion polls ahead of the Nov.  presidential election. Trump, who has played down the threat of the coronavirus pandemic from the outset, wrote on Twitter earlier on Friday that he and his wife Melania were going into quarantine after testing positive for the virus, which has killed more than , Americans and severely damaged the US economy. An active Twitter user, Trump has posted only the short video since then. Trump is at high risk because of his age and weight. He has remained in apparent good health during his time in office but is not known to exercise regularly or to follow a healthy diet. Conley said Trump has received an experimental treatment, Regenerons REGNCOV. The drug is one of several experimental COVID drugs known as monoclonal antibodies, which are used for treating a wide range of illnesses. US infectious disease chief Dr. Anthony Fauci is among those saying the technology has promise. Trump is also taking zinc, Vitamin D, famotidine, melatonin and a daily aspirin. Stocks on Wall Street closed lower as news of Trumps diagnosis added to mounting uncertainties surrounding the election. The presidents illness upended his reelection campaign with just  days to go until Election Day. The campaign said it would postpone rallies and other events where he was scheduled to appear, or take them online. Biden pulled ads attacking Trump off the air but otherwise continued his campaign, traveling to Michigan on Friday after testing negative for the virus. At a union hall in Grand Rapids, Biden said he was praying for his rivals recovery. However, he also implicitly criticized Trump, who has mocked Biden for routinely wearing a mask and has held huge campaign rallies with little social distancing. Be patriotic, Biden said. Its not about being a tough guy. Its about doing your part. ? US first lady Melania Trump wears a protective face mask, shortly before taking it off for the remainder of the debate, while sitting with the rest of the Trump family, including Donald Trump Jr., Tiffany Trump, Ivanka Trump and Eric Trump, before the start of the first  presidential campaign debate between US President Donald Trump and Democratic presidential nominee Joe Biden in Cleveland, Ohio, US, September , . Picture taken September , .  Trumps illness also raised questions about the health of others atop the US government. Vice President Mike Pence, who would take over if Trump were to fall severely ill, has tested negative, a spokesman said. The former Indiana governor, , is working from his own residence several miles from the White House. Pence took over Trumps planned calls with governors and retirees organizations. His Oct.  debate with Democratic vice presidential candidate Kamala Harris will go forward as planned, organizers said. Harris has also tested negative for the virus, according to the campaign. House of Representatives Speaker Nancy Pelosi, third in line for the presidency, also tested negative, a spokesman said. Three journalists tested positive on Friday after spending time over the weekend at the White House or traveling with Trump, according to Zeke Miller, an Associated Press reporter and president of the White House Correspondents Association. The Republican National Committee would chose a replacement nominee if Trump were to become incapacitated, but it is already too late in most states to change the names on the ballot. Some . million people have already voted, according to figures compiled by University of Florida professor Michael McDonald. The virus could also complicate Trumps push to install conservative judge Amy Coney Barrett on the Supreme Court. At least two people who were at a White House event to announce her nomination, University of Notre Dame President John Jenkins and Republican Senator Mike Lee, said Friday they have tested positive. Barrett herself tested positive for the virus earlier this year and recovered, according to a person familiar with the matter. Trump is the latest world leader to contract the virus, which can cause a severe respiratory infection. British Prime Minister Boris Johnson was rushed into intensive care after falling gravely ill in March. Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro called the virus a little flu after being infected in July. Both men recovered. Reuters ?