Trump says he and wife test positive for COVID
2020/10/2 10:36
US President Donald Trump and First Lady Melania Trump tested positive for COVID, he said in a tweet early on Friday. US President Donald Trump and first lady Melania Trump walk from the Marine One helicopter back to the White House after traveling to Fort McHenry in Baltimore for Memorial Day holiday commemorations from Washington, US, May , .  We will begin our quarantine and recovery process immediately, he said as they awaited the?test results after a top aide he spent substantial time with this week tested positive for COVID. Trumps comments came after he confirmed that Hope Hicks, one his closest aides, had tested positive for the virus Thursday. Hicks began feeling mild symptoms during the plane ride home from a rally in Minnesota Wednesday evening, according to an administration official, who spoke on condition of anonymity to disclose private information. She was quarantined away from others on the plane and her diagnosis was confirmed Thursday, the person said. Trump tweeted late Thursday The First Lady and I are waiting for our test results. In the meantime, we will begin our quarantine process. Earlier, during a callin interview with Fox News Channels Sean Hannity, Trump said Whether we quarantine or whether we have it, I dont know. I just went for a test and well see what happens. Hicks, who serves as counselor to Trump, also traveled with Trump to the first presidential debate in Cleveland on Tuesday. She is the closest White House official to Trump to test positive for the virus so far. The positive test is yet another reminder that the coronavirus continues to spread, even as Trump has tried desperately to suggest it no longer poses a danger. Since it emerged earlier this year, Trump, the White House and his campaign have played down the threat and refused to abide by basic public health guidelines  including those issued by his own administration  such as wearing masks in public and practicing social distancing. Instead, Trump has continued to hold campaign rallies that draw thousands of supporters. The virus has killed more than , Americans and infected more than  million nationwide. White House counselor to the president Hope Hicks and Chief of Staff Mark Meadows consult with US President Donald Trump during a commercial break as the president participates in a live Fox News Channel virtual town hall called America Together Returning to Work about the response to the coronavirus disease COVID pandemic being broadcast from inside the Lincoln Memorial in Washington, US May , .  The White House had not responded earlier to multiple questions about the last time Trump was tested and whether he and other staffers who spent time with Hicks in recent days will be asked to quarantine. Trump traveled to New Jersey Thursday for a fundraiser and the White House sent out a schedule for Friday that includes an intelligence briefing, a phone call on COVID support for vulnerable seniors, a fundraiser at his Washington, D.C., hotel and another rally in Sanford, Florida. Trump is  years old, putting him at higher risk of serious complications from the virus. He said he expected to have the results back either Thursday night or Friday morning. In a statement, White House spokesman Judd Deere said the president takes the health and safety of himself and everyone who works in support of him and the American people very seriously. White House Operations collaborates with the Physician to the President and the White House Military Office to ensure all plans and procedures incorporate current CDC guidance and best practices for limiting COVID exposure to the greatest extent possible both on complex and when the President is traveling, Deere said. Hicks traveled with the president multiple times this week, including aboard Marine One, the presidential helicopter, and on Air Force One to a rally in Minnesota Wednesday, and aboard Air Force One to Tuesday nights first presidential debate in Cleveland. Hicks is one of the presidents most trusted and longestserving aides, having worked as spokesperson for his  campaign. She originally served as White House as communications director, and rejoined the administration this year as an adviser ahead of the election. Her positive test was first reported by Bloomberg News on Thursday evening. She did not respond to a request for comment. Multiple White House staffers have tested positive for the virus, including Katie Miller, Vice President Mike Pences press secretary, national security adviser Robert OBrien, and one of the presidents personal valets. Kimberly Guilfoyle, who is dating Trumps oldest son, Donald Trump Jr., tested positive in South Dakota before an Independence Day fireworks show at Mount Rushmore. A screen shot of US President Donald Trumps Twitter page shows his status, where Trump tweeted that he and First lady Melania Trump tested positive for the coronavirus disease COVID early on Friday, in this picture obtained from social media on October , .  Still, Trump has consistently played down concerns about being personally vulnerable to contracting COVID. I felt no vulnerability whatsoever, he told reporters back in May. After earlier positive cases close to the president, the White House instituted a daily testing regimen for the presidents senior aides. Anyone who will be in close proximity to the president or vice president is also tested every day, including reporters. While the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommends that people who have been in close contact with someone with COVID quarantine for  days, White House staffers are considered essential workers. CDCs guidelines for exposed essential workers allows them to return to work if they take precautions, including taking their temperature before going into work, wearing a mask at all times and practicing social distancing. ? ? TV crews talk in front of a large screen showing stock prices at the Tokyo Stock Exchange in Tokyo, Japan Oct , .  US stock futures extend losses US stock futures extended losses on Friday after President Donald Trump said he and his wife had tested positive for the coronavirus, weeks ahead of elections. Futures for the SP  slid . percent by early afternoon in Asia, while Treasury yields also fell. Tokyo stocks close lower after Trump tests positive for COVID Tokyo stocks closed lower Friday after reports US President Donald Trump had tested positive for COVID dented sentiment, with the news coming amid an already cautious mood following a total shutdown of the exchange the previous day due to a worstever malfunction. The issue Nikkei Stock Average dropped . points, or . percent, from Wednesday to close the day at ,.. The broader Topix index of all First Section issues on the Tokyo Stock Exchange, meanwhile, lost . points, or . percent, to finish at ,.. Pharmaceutical, mining, and electric power and gasrelated issues comprised those that declined the most by the close of play.