THE BLOSSOMING OF OSAKA
2020/10/2 0:00
Naomi Osaka is at the top of tennis right now, poised to lead the way on the courtand off it for years to come. Still just , she already owns three Grand Slam titles after winning the US Open last month. All were claimed in a span of the past seven majors, thanks primarily to a big serve and forehand and an ability to think her way out of trouble. Then theres this Osaka is demonstrating a willingness to speak out about racial injustice, becoming her sports leading voice. Osaka, whose father is Haitian and mother is Japanese, put a spotlight on the issue by declaring she would walk out of a tuneup tournament last month, then by wearing masks emblazoned with the names of black victims of police violence as she entered the arena for her US Open matches. After coming back to beat Victoria Azarenka , ,  in the final at Flushing Meadows last month, Osaka drew a direct line between who she is as a player and who she is as a personand how success in one realm can affect the other. For me, I felt like it made me stronger, because I felt like I have more desire to win, Osaka said on ESPN, because I want to show more names and I want people to talk about it more. In a way, Osakas emergence can be viewed as a fitting tribute to Billie Jean King and the rest of the Original  on last months th anniversary of their signing  contracts for a womenonly tournament, paving the way for todays WTA tour and equal prize money at Grand Slam events. Its also a reminder of Kings philosophy, expressed this way in an interview with Associated Press this year I knew if I wasnt No  that nobody would listen. Osaka showed up for her firstround match at the US Open wearing a black mask with white lettering spelling out the name of Breonna Taylor, a black woman fatally shot in her apartment by police in Kentucky. Osaka explained she brought seven face coveringsone for each match on her journey to the final. Im aware that tennis is watched all over the world, and maybe there is someone that doesnt know Breonna Taylors story. Maybe theyll, like, Google it or something, she said. For me, its about just spreading awareness. She added the name of Tamir Rice, a yearold boy killed by police in Ohio in , on Saturday to the list of victims she honored Elijah McClain, Trayvon Martin, Ahmaud Arbery, George Floyd and Philando Castile. Asked what her message was, Osaka turned the query around. What was the message that you got? is more the question, she replied. I feel like the point is to make people start talking. Osaka got the conversation going in tennis when she said she would withdraw from her semifinal at the Western Southern Opena tournament moved from Ohio to New York ahead of the US Open to form a twoevent controlled environment to limit travel amid the coronavirus pandemic. Tournament officials followed her lead and called off a days play entirely. This is like an extra motivation, as you know. Its a very important topic for her, said Osakas coach, Wim Fissette. Its very important to have big personalities like Naomi to make a change, hopefully, one day. I think its a great thing that she does. For sure with wearing the masks, she wants to be role model, Fissette said. But also, she knows that it has to go together with being a role model on court. So its a good combination. Role model off court also great attitude on court. That goes together. Against Azarenka, Osaka hit six aces and  forehand winners. She won  of the  points that lasted at least nine strokes. Most impressive, though, Osaka cast aside a terrible initial halfhour, realized she needed to be more aggressivecrowding the baseline to redirect shots more quickly, taking time away from Azarenkaand became the first woman in  years to win a US Open final after dropping the first set. After it ended, the last shot struck and the championship hers, Osaka calmly set down her racket on the sideline with a smile, walked back onto the court and eased herself down, laying on her back and glancing overhead. I was thinking about all the times Ive watched the great players sort of collapse onto the ground and look up into the sky. Ive always wanted to see what they saw, Osaka said. For me, it was really an incredible moment. Im really glad I did it. She was thrilled she had earned the trophy. Tennis should be thrilled it has Osaka. Associated Press ? Naomi Osaka shows her support for a policeshooting victim. AP ? ? Osaka poses with the US Open trophy in New York. AP ? ? Osaka has emerged as one of tennis most outspoken players. AP ? ? Naomi Osaka lies on the court after winning her third Grand Slam with a threeset victory over Victoria Azarenka in the US Open womens singles final at Flushing Meadows in New York on Sept . AP ? ? ? ?