Poor countries inability to immunize against COVID a disaster for rich countries
2020/9/30 17:35
A lion statue that sits outside the New York Public Library building wears a mask in the Manhattan borough of New York City, New York, US, September , .  The world is on the brink of a scientific achievement C one COVID vaccine maybe more will likely be ready by early next year C but were also on the brink of a real strategic failing It has to do with the manufacture and distribution of these vaccines. Right now, that effort is an international bidding war. It almost resembles the cutthroat market for ventilators and personal protective equipment PPE at the beginning of the pandemic. Countries are cutting deals with pharmaceutical companies, securing the right to buy vaccine doses as soon as theyre produced. And like in all bidding wars, the wealthiest bidders are winning Already, the worlds highincome nations have secured enough vaccine doses to cover more than twice their populations. But what about the low and lowermiddle income nations of the world? This is a group of countries ranging from South Sudan to Nicaragua to Myanmar. Theyre home to nearly half of all human beings, and they dont have the purchasing power to cut big deals with pharmaceutical companies. As things stand now, these countries wont have nearly enough doses. Theyll only be able to cover  percent of their people. This is a disaster in the making for poorer countries. But thats obvious. Whats less obvious, but equally true, is that its also a disaster for rich countries. New modeling from Northeastern University helps illustrate why. The researchers there analyzed two scenarios. In one, vaccines are distributed to all countries based on their population size. Then theres another scenario that approximates whats happening now  rich countries get the first  billion doses of vaccine. In this scenario, the virus continues to spread unchecked for four months in three quarters of the world. And almost twice as many people die. Of course, poor countries would feel the most pain. But rich countries wouldnt be immune. Wed all become Australia and New Zealand. Both have gone long stretches with very few cases inside their borders, but their economies remain depressed because their trading partners are on lockdown. And occasionally, a new carrier of the virus makes his way across the South Pacific, creating new clusters of the disease. Those clusters grow and spread. Schools and offices are shut down again. Even with an oversupply of vaccine, wealthy nations risk reinfection in this way. Because not everybody will choose to be vaccinated. No country can become a fortress in a pandemic. The only way to eliminate the threat of this disease somewhere is to eliminate it everywhere. The most urgent task is closing this vaccine gap between rich and poor countries. If you lead a wealthy country, success doesnt look like being able to vaccinate every person inside your borders and still having warehouses full of vaccine to spare. Thats what failure looks like. Success is purchasing enough vaccine supply for your people C and for the wider world that cant afford to. This is where the ACT Accelerator can help. Its an initiative supported by organizations like Gavi and the Global Fund. Not many people have heard of them, but they have spent two decades becoming experts in the task of delivering vaccines, diagnostics, and drugs to poor countries. They have technical ability to solve this problem. They just dont have the financing yet. Pharmaceutical companies have made the financing much easier. This week, a group of CEOs signed agreement, effectively ensuring that everyone around the world will have access to the latest COVID vaccines, drugs, and diagnostics, regardless of their income. This comes on top of other commitments many companies have said that they wont profit on any coronavirus vaccine and that theyll also cooperate on therapeutic production. If one company succeeds in developing a drug, another could let them use their factory to make it. More support, however, is still needed. Even if the worlds poorest countries only wanted to vaccinate highrisk people C health workers and the elderly C they still wouldnt have enough supply. They would need about . billion doses to do that. And right now, theyre up to  billion doses short. Wealthy nations need to be generous, but they also need to be persistent. The firstgeneration vaccines ready next year might be highly effective at blocking humantohuman transmission of the SARSCoV virus, or they could just be very good at preventing mild cases of COVID from turning into serious ones. Either would be useful, but in the latter scenario the world will need to keep investing in RD until vaccines block transmission. Continued innovation in new kinds of vaccines and drug platforms could help us fight the next novel virus and old enemies, like cancer and HIV, too. We should also expect that as the elimination effort goes global, it will become more difficult and expensive. One of the most famous photos of the polio eradication effort in India was of a line of health workers. They were carrying vaccine coolers over their heads as they waded through waistdeep floodwaters to reach a remote village. Spotting COVID cases in the poorest parts of the world will take a similar network of primary health workers C one that can reach places where even roads cant. With good diagnostics, these workers can also sound the alarm if another disease jumps from a bat C or bird C to a human. Thats an added benefit Strong health systems can help us prevent the next pandemic. For  years, Ive been asking presidents, prime ministers, and other policymakers in wealthy countries to give money and help improve the health of people in the poorest. Ive met with nationalist leaders who are skeptical C and humanitarian leaders who are generous C but COVID has made that distinction irrelevant. In this pandemic, theres no difference between helping yourself and helping others. The selfish thing and the selfless thing C giving poor countries the tools to eliminate this disease C are one in the same. The sooner the world realizes that, the sooner this crisis will end. The author is cochair of Bill  Melinda Gates Foundation.