Trial for COVID pill moving into next stage
2020/9/30 9:28
Delegates pose for a photo during the launch ceremony of a sales promotion via livestreaming for Hong Kongmade products on popular Chinese videosharing app Douyin in Hong Kong, Sept , .  HONG KONG  With impressive sales in two livestreaming shows recently, analysts believe Hong Kong can learn from the successful ecommerce experience of the mainland to inject new impetus into an economy reeling from the COVID fallout. Nearly . million people tuned in to watch a sales promotion on Monday via livestreaming for Hong Kongmade products on popular Chinese videosharing app Douyin, also known as TikTok, Monday evening, with some popular products sold out in merely a minute. During another livestreaming sale on Friday night, , boxes of mooncakes were sold in  seconds and , cases of beauty masks were snapped up quickly. Sold out was the buzzword of the night. Such activities not only conform to the trend of the times but also meet the needs of Hong Kongs current economic and social development, Hu Zhanghong, CEO of Greater Bay Area Homeland Investments Limited, said when explaining why livestreaming emerged as a new hit in Hong Kongs ecommerce sector. Facing the double whammy of social unrest since June  and the COVID pandemic, numerous small and mediumsized enterprises in Hong Kong struggled to keep afloat. Livestreaming ecommerce will offer new growth momentum to the Hong Kong economy, in particular generate new job opportunities for young people and increase their incomes, Eric Ching, president of the Hong Kong Youth Ecommerce Advancement Association, said. As Hong Kong products gain great popularity from mainland consumers, not only Hong Kong businesses can weather out the hardships but the economic circulation between Hong Kong and the mainland will be strengthened, Lin Xiaohui, vice chairman of the Greater Bay Area Homeland Development Fund, said. Looking ahead, Lin believes robust ecommerce will accelerate the transformation of traditional sectors from retail sales to logistics in Hong Kong. With the enormous opportunities, experts suggested that Hong Kong should give full play to its advantages and learn from the mature ecommerce system of the mainland. The timing is perfect, Ching said, stressing the livestreaming ecommerce will bring mainland consumers even closer to Hong Kong products. The association of Ching organized three training courses to help some  Hong Kong youth realize their dreams in the ecommerce sector over the past year. Hong Kong young people are sensitive to market changes, businessminded and expressive, said Chen Dong, deputy director of the Liaison Office of the Central Peoples Government in the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region. Chen called for concerted efforts from various sectors of Hong Kong to help youngsters ride on the wave of ecommerce development.