Second spike warning for UK
2020/9/30 7:51
Hong Kong residents will have two public holidays in a row on Thursday and Friday because the traditional MidAutumn Festival on the Lunar Calendar and the st anniversary of our nation  the Peoples Republic of China  fall on the same day tomorrow, followed by the weekend. An extended public holiday like this does not happen often and therefore should be put to good use, provided everyone takes extra precautions to ensure their familys as well as their own safety and health amid the lingering COVID pandemic. That is not to say, however, no other threat exists to the wellbeing of Hong Kong society or even the nations. In fact, there is a real and present danger lurking right around the corner, one that is posed by the burntogether gang. Lawabiding and peaceloving residents of Hong Kong are hereby advised to remain on high alert and be on the lookout for possible rioters they saw almost daily in the street during the criminal black revolution last year. In view of rampant rallying by separatists on social media lately, the Liaison Office of the Central Peoples Government in the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region on Tuesday issued a stern warning to those preparing to disrupt public festivities with violent acts or vandalism The National Security Law is designed precisely to prevent and punish any abusive acts  including terrorism  meant to harm peace and public order in Hong Kong. The SAR government and particularly the Hong Kong Police Force have also vowed swift dispersal of any illegal gathering deemed in violation of antipandemic rules or a threat to public safety and peace. Given the fact that hundreds if not thousands of wouldbe rioters have been posting hateful messages on social media swearing to avenge the  fugitives arrested by the Chinese mainland authorities while fleeing Hong Kong law late last month, among other insidious threats, the police force is determined and prepared to stop anyone from committing any form of hate crime, the likes of which victimized many local residents and visitors during the black revolution last year. Riots amid a deadly pandemic are bound to harm public safety as much as terrorist attacks would harm national security. That is why lawenforcement authorities at all levels will thwart any attempt by members of the burntogether gang to spoil the long holiday plus weekend celebrations. To do so, the central government has promised unreserved support for the HKSAR to hold zero tolerance toward criminal acts aimed at terrorizing Hong Kong society with burntogether virulence. To those blind followers of antimainland bigotry Abandon the suicidal cause now or test the National Security Law at your own peril. Saboteurs will gain nothing but feel the full force of the law. Admittedly, Hong Kong residents cannot spend the holidays the same way they would have without the pandemic, but they can still have a good time with essential antipandemic protection  wearing face masks and observing socialdistancing rules. ?