UK doctors warned about worrying new illness
2020/9/30 1:02
GENEVA  The COVID death toll worldwide has surpassed one million, reaching ,, as of Tuesday, according to the latest numbers from the World Health Organization WHO. As of  p.m. CEST  GMT on Tuesday, there have been ,, confirmed cases of COVID, including ,, deaths, reported to the WHO. The U.S., India and Brazil remain the top three in cumulative confirmed cases, having recorded ,, cases, ,, cases and ,, cases respectively. The U.S. also tops the fatality list with , deaths, followed by Brazil with , deaths and India with , deaths. Other most impacted countries in terms of confirmed cases are Russia with ,, cases, Colombia with , cases, Peru with , cases, Mexico with , cases, and Spain with , cases. On the fatality list after the top three are Mexico with , deaths, the UK with , deaths, Italy with , deaths, Peru with , deaths, and France with , deaths. According to WHO regional offices, Americas remains the most affected area by COVID, with a total of ,, confirmed cases and , deaths. WHO DirectorGeneral Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said on Tuesday that the onemillion death toll is a difficult moment for the world but there are glimmers of hope that encourage us now and in the near future. He reaffirmed that the key lesson in combating the pandemic is the same  no matter where a country is in an outbreak, it is never too late to turn things around. There are four essential steps that all countries, communities and individuals must focus on to take control of the epidemic, he said. According to the WHO chief, the four steps are First, prevent amplifying events Second, reduce deaths by protecting vulnerable groups, including older people, those with underlying conditions and essential workers Third, individuals must play their part by taking the measures to protect themselves and others, such as staying at least one meter away from others, cleaning hands regularly, practicing respiratory etiquette, wearing a mask, and avoiding three Cs, namely closed spaces, crowded places and closecontact settings Fourth, governments must take tailored actions to find, isolate, test and care for cases, and trace and quarantine contacts.