Saboteurs of SAR peace will gain nothing but feel full force of law
2020/9/29 16:49
A lion statue that sits outside the New York Public Library building wears a mask in the Manhattan borough of New York City, New York, US, September , .? New York City has recorded its highest increase in novel coronavirus cases since June, as the outbreak sweeps through neighborhoods outside of Manhattan, especially in Brooklyn and Queens, prompting concern among health officials who had worked hard to get the virus under control. The outbreaks have occurred in locations where the positivity rate has ranged from . percent to . percent. The Department of Health said cases are growing at an alarming rate in at least eight neighborhoods in Brooklyn and Queens, outpacing the citywide average by . times over the past two weeks. There were , new infections on Friday alone. Brooklyn is a major contributor in the rising number of cases statewide, Governor Andrew Cuomo said Monday. Orange and Rockland counties, north of the city, also are areas of concern, he said. Queens and Brooklyn have large Orthodox Jewish communities, and they have accounted for  percent of the states new daily cases while representing . percent of New Yorks population. Hospitalizations for confirmed coronavirus cases have gone up mainly in both areas. In the Williamsburg section of Brooklyn, health officials are observing a faster increase in cases compared with other parts of the city, even though the test positivity rate is at . percent. We have specific ZIP codes in Brooklyn that we are going to look at because its very targeted, Cuomo said Monday. The key with these clusters is to jump on them quickly, attack them from all sides. Cuomo said that out of , ZIP codes in the state,  are averaging an infection rate of about  percent compared with the states overall infection rate of . percent. He said  rapidtesting machines would be made available immediately to those areas. The public schools, private schools that are in those ZIP codes, I strongly encourage to request a rapidtesting machine and have them start testing their students, he said. On Friday, health officials conducted emergency inspections at religious schools in Orthodox Jewish areas. If social distancing rules arent followed there, city officials said large gatherings could be limited, and businesses forced to close. As of Sept , New York City had , of the states , total coronavirus cases, with , deaths and another , probable deaths. At least  people have been hospitalized due to COVID, and  people died from the virus on Sunday. New York state reported  new coronavirus cases out of nearly , tests, the governor said Monday. He said the statewide positivity rate was approximately . percent. New York City was once the epicenter of the virus, with as many as  deaths a day earlier this year. But amid a stringent maskwearing mandate by the governor, along with social distancing measures and widespread testing, the virus was bought under control. The rate of hospitalizations and cases fell dramatically over summer. But amid the progress, the governor had warned about the possibility of a second wave of the virus as the city reopened further. The citys public schools are set to reopen with inperson learning this week. New York City has the largest public school district in the country, with . million students. The city Health Department said the schools could stay open only if the coronavirus positivity rate stays below  percent. Cuomo has repeatedly warned that the start of indoor dining in restaurants next month at  percent capacity could lead to a new wave of infections. Nationwide, more than . million people have been infected with the novel coronavirus, and more than , have died, according to Johns Hopkins University.