Medical work plan released for flu season
2020/9/29 16:49
Huawei Technologies Chief Financial Officer Meng Wanzhou leaves a court hearing during a break in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada September , .? With a mask on her face and a monitoring bracelet on her ankle, Huawei Technologies Chief Financial Officer Meng Wanzhou returned to the Supreme Court of British Columbia on Monday to argue that her extradition to the United States should be halted because her rights have been violated. During a scheduled three days of hearings in Vancouver, Mengs lawyers will argue that American officials omitted details that undermine the fraud charges against her, on the basis that information provided to Canadian officials was misleading and contained material omissions and misrepresentations. Meng is charged with violating US sanctions against Iran. The US used a presentation she made to the British multinational bank HSBC in  to allege that she lied about Huaweis relationship to Skycom, a Hong Kong tech firm, putting HSBC at risk of breaking American sanctions against Iran. Mengs defense team argued that the US cherrypicked information from a PowerPoint presentation that Meng gave HSBC. The summary omitted slides from the presentation where Meng described Huawei as having a normal and controllable relationship with Skycom, they said, adding that the summary of allegations provided to Canada is manifestly unreliable and seriously misleading. The defense hopes to convince the judge that the accusations against Meng lack an air of reality and to allow them to argue additional allegations of the US abuse of process in the case. After shes informed HSBC that its commerce with Skycom is in Iran, HSBC is on full notice in terms of measuring sanctions risk, defense lawyer Scott Fenton told Associate Chief Justice Heather Holmes on Monday. Where the court finds there are material misstatements and omissions going to the heart of the record of the case, then the court may intervene, find an abuse of process and fashion an appropriate remedy, Fenton said. He told the judge that the elephant in the room was that Meng and Huawei had not lied and instead had given HSBC all the information needed to assess the risk, contrary to US claims. Mengs defense team also believes that past comments made by US President Donald Trump on China prove Mengs arrest was politically motivated. The preliminary hearings Monday come ahead of a fuller hearing scheduled for February  and will determine the legal defenses that Mengs lawyers will be allowed to use to fight her extradition. Gary Botting, an extradition lawyer based in Vancouver, said the defenses success depends entirely on the nature of the evidence  and whether or not there is any substance to their allegations. In a statement issued by Huawei Canada on Monday, the company said that Mengs position is that the extradition proceedings against her constitute an abuse of the Canadian judicial process and should therefore be stayed. As expressed consistently, Huawei has confidence in Ms. Mengs innocence and we trust in the Canadian judicial system to reach that conclusion. Accordingly, Huawei will continue to support Ms. Mengs pursuit of justice and freedom, the statement said.