Italys active COVID cases over , since late May, but new lockdown ruled out
2020/9/29 9:45
People wear face masks after the southern Italian region of Campania made it mandatory to wear protective face coverings outdoors  hours a day, as part of the efforts to contain the coronavirus disease COVID outbreak, in Naples, Italy, Sept , .  ROME  The number of active COVID infections in Italy exceeded , again for the first time since late May, according to fresh statistics on Monday. More specifically, national health authorities registered  new active cases across the country over the hour period, which brought the total of active cases to ,. The last time the country reached a higher figure in active infections was May  ,. This resulted from a limited but constant upward trend in the latest weeks, official data showed. In August, experts explained this was mostly due to holidaymakers returning from countries with higher infection rates, and a more intense circulation of people. In September, the daily increases have become more relevant, and one of the explaining factors could be the school reopening and the subsequent mass movement of pupils, parents, and teachers. However, the pandemic situation at the country level seemed to remain under control. Assessed cases grew by , to total , on Monday against an increase of , on Sunday, considering infections, recoveries, and fatalities. Of the , actively infected people, some  are currently in intensive care  more compared to the previous day, and , are hospitalized  more. Recoveries grew by  to total ,, while  new fatalities were registered against Sunday, bringing the countrys death toll to ,. While northern Lombardy, Veneto, and Piedmont regions were the countrys hotbeds during the first phase of the pandemic, now were southern Campania and central Lazio surrounding Rome worrying experts the most. They recorded  and  new infections on Monday, respectively, the highest daily increase among the  Italian regions, data showed. In related news on Monday, Foreign Minister Luigi Di Maio voiced Italys solidarity towards European Union EU partners facing higher spikes in new cases these days. Europe has shown solidarity with Italy in the pandemic, the minister wrote on Facebook. Some countries in Europe are still suffering, and especially Spain and France, which are at risk of having a second lockdown. As a government, we will do our utmost to provide help. Italy witnessed the height of the national outbreak in spring, when a nationwide lockdown was imposed to curb the spread of the virus. Signalling the government deemed the current upward trends in the pandemic curve still manageable, Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte excluded a new national lockdown. I rule it out, because our situation today differs totally from the one we had in the first months of the year, Conte said in a virtual address at Trento Festival of Economics on Sunday. It is possible that new clusters will emerge, but in this case we are going to intervene with geographically limited measures. Italy is also among a group of countries including Britain, China, Russia and the United States that are racing against time to develop coronavirus vaccines.