Signs of COVID resurgence seen across US, experts concerned
2020/9/29 9:14
Medical workers walk outside of Maimonides Medical Center in Borough Park on Sept ,  in New York City.  DENVER, the United States  I think that theres a lot of concern that we could start to see a real upsurge and this is a continuation of a broader trend underway as we head into the colder months, Dr. Scott Gottlieb said Sunday. Gottlieb, former head of the US Food and Drug Administration, appeared on Face the Nation of CBS to caution that the country is taking a lot of infection into a very dangerous season for the virus. Gottlieb isnt the only expert that has given a warning in the past few days. As a new wave of novel coronavirus cases slowly seeped into America, experts from coast to coast sounded the alarm. Where there are already cracks in the system, those cracks become earthquakes, Dr. Chris Pernell, University Hospitals chief strategic integration and health equity officer, told NBC News Saturday. A second surge of COVID this fall and winter could be catastrophic for the US, and its not just more sick people that doctors worry about, NBCs report noted. Experts agree that the economic strain of continued COVID services  especially in the wake of an anticipated upsurge  could be devastating for many hospitals. By the end of , hospitals across the United States will lose about  billion US dollars, according to the American Hospital Association, noting that during the pandemic, hospitals have absorbed the costs of extra supplies, including masks and gloves, and without federal support, many face bankruptcies. Many experts agree that the upsurge has begun or is on its way, although Gottlieb said it was unclear if the recent upsurge is the start of a persistent trend heading into the fall and the winter, or whether it was a temporary upswing resulting from Labor Day festivities. As of Monday, in total, the United States has ,, infections with , deaths as a result of the pandemic, more than double Europes case count, and many more people live there, CNN said. Across the country, daily cases were largely on a downward trend through August and early September from highs in July, but are going up again now, National Public Radio NPR noted Saturday. Anthony Fauci told the media several days ago, The US is still in its first COVID wave and should be prepared for the challenge of fall and winter. But Fauci, who has served as the director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases since , may revise his assessment, based on hard data in just the past week. The country reported more than , new COVID cases on Friday, according to the Johns Hopkins University Coronavirus Tracker. Overall, about twodozen states and territories reported an upward trend in new infections, with some states setting and breaking records in days, according to NPR. The US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has projected there would be up to , coronavirus deaths in the United States by Oct . On the East Coast, New York Governor Andrew Cuomo announced Saturday there were , positive cases tallied on the previous day, Friday, out of , tests, for a  percent positive rate. Is there cause for concern? As long as COVID is here, yes, Cuomos aide Gareth Rhodes posted on Twitter. Rhodes stressed Saturday that the new positivecase number came out of nearly , tests, compared to about , tests daily in June. From late July through the start of September, the Empire State was seeing an average of around  people test positive per day. Last week, New York averaged  positive tests per day, Cuomos office said. In the Midwest, four states reported record oneday increases in COVID cases on Saturday, a national trend for a second straight week, according to a Reuters analysis. In Wisconsin, the states Department of Health said it had identified , new infections on Saturday, its highest daily total since the pandemic began. It broke the record of , new infections from Sept . Wisconsin is now experiencing unprecedented, nearexponential growth of the number of COVID cases in our state, Governor Tony Evers said. Wisconsins hospitalizations have set new records for six days in a row, according to state health data, rising to  on Friday from  a week ago. South Dakotas hospitalizations set records five times last week, rising to  on Saturday, the Reuters analysis noted, adding that all Midwest states except Ohio reported more cases in the past four weeks as compared with the prior four weeks. In California, the states top health official, Health and Human Services Secretary Mark Ghaly, warned Friday night that the latest data of COVID in the state was worrisome, since it could be an early sign showing a second wave of the virus is coming. The Golden State saw , new cases on Friday in the previous  hours, marking a slight uptick from recent lows. Meanwhile, the states positivity rate, statewide coronavirusrelated emergency department visits and new hospitalizations due to the virus are all on the rise in the past week.