Nearly  and going strong
2020/9/29 8:59
ZENG YIFOR CHINA DAILY ChinaSierra Leone ties have withstood the tests of time as they stand by each other against the pandemic and the greater challenges ahead The sudden outbreak of the novel coronavirus has created great challenges for countries around the world, posing enormous threats to peoples lives and health as well as global public health security. In the face of the pandemic, China and Sierra Leone have been offering each other precious support, demonstrating their genuine friendship. In the early stages of Chinas battle against the virus, Sierra Leones President Julius Maada Bio sent a message to President Xi Jinping expressing sympathy and solidarity. The Parliament of Sierra Leone passed a special resolution and awarded a certificate of solidarity to the National Peoples Congress of China. People from various circles in Sierra Leone showed solidarity with China in different ways. Similarly, China provided swift assistance to support Sierra Leones fight against the pandemic even though it was facing great difficulties and pressure itself. So far, the Chinese side has provided several rounds of urgent donations to Sierra Leone, including personal protective equipment, respirators, masks, medical gloves, ventilators and testing kits. And according to senior officials of the Sierra Leonean government, these most needed materials have been essential in enhancing Sierra Leones preparedness and capabilities to combat the pandemic. The three Chinese medical expert teams in Sierra Leone have been working day and night with their local colleagues in virus detection, patient treatment and technical training. Up to now, they have conducted , tests of samples, participated in treating and saving the lives of over  patients, and organized training for  local staff. The teams helped Sierra Leone detect the first case of infection, treated the first patient to recover, and successfully cured infected infants. The cooperation between China and Sierra Leone is a microcosm of their comprehensive strategic cooperative partnership and the traditional friendship between the two countries, and is part of Chinas efforts to build a global community of health for all. For almost half a century, China and Sierra Leone have stood together through thick and thin. The mutuallybeneficial and winwin cooperation between China and Sierra Leone has been continuously expanded and deepened. In , Sierra Leone joined other friendly countries in supporting the restoration of Chinas legitimate seat in the United Nations. Over the years, China helped Sierra Leone build Youyi Building, Siaka Stevens Stadium and other infrastructure. At present, a series of practical cooperation projects between the two countries, such as the Lumley Market Second Juba Bridge, the Freetown Ring Road from Limkokwing University to Regent Village, the reconstruction of the Wilberforce Barracks and the Fishery Resource Survey Project, are being implemented under the framework of the Forum on ChinaAfrica Cooperation and the Belt and Road Initiative. A friend in need is a friend indeed. In , when Ebola broke out in west Africa, while some other countries evacuated their personnel from the affected areas, China was the first to come to assist Sierra Leone. The Chinese government promptly donated a large amount of medical supplies, dispatched teams of disease control and treatment experts, and helped set up mobile and fixed biosafety laboratories. Chinas support lasted until Sierra Leone declared final victory against Ebola. In , when Sierra Leone was hit by a tragic mudslide in Freetown, China immediately provided humanitarian assistance. In , President Xi and President Julius Maada Bio reached an important consensus on deepening the comprehensive strategic cooperative partnership between the two countries. In , Yang Jiechi, as special representative of President Xi, paid a successful visit to Sierra Leone to further promote the implementation of that consensus. On July , Chinese State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi had a phone conversation with Sierra Leones Foreign Minister Nabeela Farida Tunis, which they agreed to enhance the bilateral cooperation. The year  marks the th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between China and Sierra Leone. Standing at the new historical starting point, guided by the principle of sincerity, real results, amity and good faith and the principle of pursuing the greater good and shared interests, the Chinese side is ready to work with Sierra Leone to further promote the mutuallybeneficial cooperation, overcome the impact of the pandemic and strive for common development. The author is the Chinese ambassador to Sierra Leone. The author contributed this article to China Watch, a think tank powered by China Daily. The views do not necessarily reflect those of China Daily.