HK sees  virus cases after  days of singledigit increases
2020/9/28 18:45
People walk through the local headquarters of HSBC in Hong Kong on Sept , .  HONG KONG  Hong Kong reported  new COVID cases on Monday, ending eight consecutive days of singledigit daily increases and bringing the citys overall tally to ,. Seven of the new infections were imported, while the rest were linked to previously confirmed patients, the Centre for Health Protection CHP said in a statement. The three local cases included a oneyearold boy who lived in Ho Man Tin, a yearoldman in Ma On Shan, and a yearold woman in Tuen Mun, it added. Also on Monday, the Leisure and Cultural Services Department appealed to the public to avoid burning wax or flying sky lanterns when celebrating the MidAutumn Festival later this week. It noted that a ban on public gatherings of more than four people is still in place. Moreover, members of the public should not throw glow sticks or other objects onto trees, as doing so may cause damage to the trees and affect the cleanliness of venues, a spokesman said in a statement. He said that patrols will be stepped up at the departments venues on Oct  and  to deal with any irregularities like littering, wax burning, throwing objects onto trees and flying sky lanterns. Offenders who are convicted of these offenses are liable to a maximum fine of HK, and imprisonment of  days, he added. To prevent pneumonia and respiratory tract infections, the CHP urged members of the public to always maintain good personal and environmental hygiene. On a personal level, members of the public should wear a surgical mask when having respiratory symptoms, taking public transport or staying in crowded places, a CHP spokesman said. He said they should also perform hand hygiene frequently, especially before touching the mouth, nose or eyes. As for household environmental hygiene, members of the public are advised to maintain drainage pipes properly, regularly pour water into drain outlets Utraps and cover all floor drain outlets when they are not in use, he said. After using the toilet, they should put the toilet lid down before flushing to avoid spreading germs, he added.