Shanghais domestic flight and passenger volume back to normal levels
2020/9/28 16:11
Passengers?wait in the departure hall of the?Shanghai Hongqiao International Airport. .com.cn The domestic flight and passenger volume of Shanghais two airports have been restored to the same level as last year due to the fastrecovering Chinese economy and consumer confidence, according to the Shanghai Airport Authority. The authority noted that Shanghai Hongqiao International Airport and Shanghai Pudong International Airport are fully prepared to handle the travel peak during the upcoming National Day holiday. Shanghai Hongqiao International Airport is expecting about  landings or takeoffs per day and about , passenger trips on daily basis during the weeklong National Day holiday which takes place from Oct  to Oct  this year. Domestic air travel has gradually recovered, and currently has almost reached the same level as last year. We are expecting a further growth in passenger numbers and flights during the holiday, said Tang Yichen, the manager in charge of the Hongqiao airports operation headquarters. Tang added that up to , passenger trips are made via Hongqiao Airport on peak days. Pudong International Airport is expecting  landings or takeoffs, as well as , passenger trips a day during the holiday. Nationwide, a total of , aircraft landings or takeoffs are expected to take place during the eightday holiday, and the top destinations are Beijing, Shanghai, Guangzhou and Shenzhen of Guangdong province, Chengdu of Sichuan province, Kunming of Yunnan province, Chongqing, Hangzhou of Zhejiang province, Xian of Shaanxi province and Sanya of Hainan province, according to data collected by Chinese aviation data and solution service provider AirSavvi. In order to protect travelers health and safety, the Shanghai airport authority has upgraded their measures in preventing and containing the contagion through temperature checks, mask wearing, constant disinfection of facilities, as well as provision of disinfection and firstaid products at departure halls, said Tang.