The world in photos Sept  C
2020/9/28 10:46
Here are some of the most striking images taken from around the world over the past week. A photo taken on Sept ,  shows a COVID sniffer dog at a press conference held at Helsinki Vantaa International Airport in Finland. Four specially trained dogs demonstrated their ability to sniff COVID in people even before showing symptoms during a press conference held at Helsinki Vantaa International Airport on Tuesday.  A man gets his photograph taken in front of Taj Mahal after authorities reopened the monument to visitors, amidst the coronavirus disease COVID outbreak, in Agra, India, September , .? Customers visit a Chinese supermarket selling mooncakes ahead of the MidAutumn Festival in Toronto on Sept , . The Chinese MidAutumn Festival falls on Oct  this year.  Workers on a cherry picker perform maintenance work at Singapores Gardens by the Bay on Sept , .  US national flags representing , lives lost to COVID in the United States are placed on the National Mall in Washington, DC on Sept , . US COVID deaths surpassed , on Tuesday, according to the Center for Systems Science and Engineering at Johns Hopkins University.  A man wearing a face mask walks on the street in Paris on Sept , .  United Nations SecretaryGeneral Antonio Guterres addresses the General Debate of the th session of the UN General Assembly at the UN headquarters in New York on Sept , . The General Debate opened on Tuesday with the theme of The future we want, the United Nations we need reaffirming our collective commitment to multilateralism  confronting COVID through effective multilateral action.  Lao girls, in their traditional festive dresses, pose for photos at the drillthrough ceremony of the Ban Phoukeu Tunnel held at the tunnel exit in Muang Nga of Oudomxay province, Laos on Sept , . A Chinese railway engineering company on Tuesday drilled through the Ban Phoukeu Tunnel, the last major long tunnel of nearly , meters along the ChinaLaos Railway. It marked an important milestone in the construction of the crossborder railway, and laid a solid foundation for the timely completion of the mega project.  Bah NDaw right is saluted by the military after being sworn in as Malis transitional president in Bamako, Mali on Sept , . Malis transitional president Bah NDaw and vicepresident Colonel Assimi Goita were sworn in on Friday following a military action in August.  A humpback whale springs out of water in Jervis Bay south of Sydney on Sept , . 