Former powerhouse shines once more
2020/9/28 9:33
A fully laden freight train departs from Jinhua, Zhejiang province, for Baku, Azerbaijan, on Sept . Photo by Shi Bufafor China Daily URUMQILoaded with automobile parts, apparel and other items, a navy blue freight train departed for Poland carrying madeinChina products for the European market. The train, which left China via the Alataw Pass, a major rail port in Northwest Chinas Xinjiang Uygur autonomous region, was traveling on one of the growing routes for the ChinaEurope freight train program, a rail connectivity project initiated by China to boost exchanges with European countries. The trade project that began in  shone through the COVID cloud this year. The crossborder freight train service bucked the downward trend of logistics, ensuring steady supply and support, while air and sea cargo transportation had to bear the brunt of the outbreak. Though the speed of ChinaEurope freight train service is dwarfed by plane or passenger bullet train, the pace of its growth in terms of delivery frequency and cargo volume has continued to reach new highs lately. The Alataw Pass saw , ChinaEurope freight train trips in the first eight months this year, marking a nearly  percent yearonyear jump. Across the country, , ChinaEurope freight train trips were made in the first eight months of this year, up  percent over the same period in . August alone saw the operation of , such trains, the fourth month in a row for the figure to top , and the sixth consecutive month registering doubledigit growth. The surge in ChinaEurope freight train trips is partly driven by rising market demand and powered by higher Customs efficiency. Thanks to digital customs service, the halting duration for the train leaving the Alataw Pass has reduced to as short as five hours, compared with  hours without the service, according to Yin Hufeixue, a Customs officer at the pass. In line with the robust rise in cargo trips, trade volume has spiked. Some , twentyfoot equivalent units of cargo were sent in August, up  percent yearonyear. The trades boost to supply chains is a twoway trip. Automobile parts made in China, such as tires and seats, are regularly shipped to Germany through the ChinaEurope freight train, while some European cars are exported to China using the same freight train service such as the train service transporting Audi vehicles to Northeast Chinas Changchun city. The products traded between China and Europe via the cargo service have expanded from electronic commodities to over  categories of goods including automobiles, wine and crossborder ecommerce parcels. The ChinaEurope freight train service, as a land transportation artery like a contemporary railway version of camel caravans, has played an important role in keeping logistics unimpeded and ensuring a stable supply of materials to China, Europe and countries along the routes, said Zhao Lijian, a Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson, in August. With travel restrictions disrupting global logistics, the ChinaEurope freight train service became a lifeline for transporting antiepidemic supplies, thus bringing a glimmer of hope for people worldwide involved in the fight against COVID while grappling with its economic fallout. On March , a ChinaEurope freight train, loaded with more than , medical face masks and  units of protective suits, left the Alataw Pass, kicking off exports of antipandemic supplies to Europe using the train service. By the end of June, the cargo train service had delivered . million items of pandemic control supplies weighing , tons to countries including Germany, France, Italy, Spain and Poland. The pandemic has created opportunities for China and Europe to expand bilateral ties, and Chinas leading progress in restoring economic activities has boosted confidence for Europe and the rest of the world, said Sylwester Szafarz, former consul general of Poland in Shanghai, adding that Poland is working on a transportation project that is expected to facilitate freight train service to countries in West Europe. China has vowed to further upgrade the freight train service. It announced an investment of  million yuan . million in early July for building train depots in five key logistics hubs of the train service, including Urumqi, Chongqing and Zhengzhou.