RALLYING FOR RECOVERY
2020/9/26 0:00
Auto CEOs have their say Wang Huazhong The Beijing International Automotive Exhibition , or Auto China , the automobile industrys premier event, unfolds on Saturday, six months behind schedule following the COVID pandemic. SinoUS trade frictions have cast a shadow on China, the worlds largest car market where incremental growth, the industrys hallmark in recent times, had made way for reliance on replacements since . COVID exacerbated the situation, testing global auto players agility, resilience and patience. Far from caving in, the auto world decided to stand up and be counted as supporters of community initiatives, reinforcing the modern definition of corporate social responsibility. Carmakers, particularly in China, helped ease the epidemics burden on their employees, suppliers and dealers alike. Whats more, they adapted their facilities to the needs of society, making face masks and other medical supplies for epidemicstricken communities. They swiftly tapped online channels for marketing and services to provide safer transportation solutions. As of late September, most parts of the world have appeared optimistic of going back to normalcy. Thats not all. Industries like autoes are keen to draw useful lessons from recent experiences, deepen an incipient recovery and make a fresh start. Theres no place more appropriate than Beijing to do that. The Chinese auto market accounted for  percent of global sales in the first half of this year. It also recovered relatively quickly to post yearonyear growth from the second quarter on. But, in the worlds most populous nation of . billion, per capita car ownership is still  percent of that in developed economies. This suggests theres massive room for growth. Yet, it is China that is driving the global auto industrys transformative transition from vehicles powered by fossil fuels to electric, intelligent and connected mobility. The coming paradigm shift has been creating a sense of anticipation, excitement and cheerful mood in the industry. The Beijing Auto Show will capture its essence. In this eightpage special spread, China Daily features heads of Chinese market operations of as many as  global makers of cars and auto parts. They share stunning stories of how their companies are fighting the pandemic. They also shed light on the art of embracing a more efficient, inclusive and cooperative approach to shared development amid a crisis. Enjoy and benefit from their profound insights. Owing to space constraints, the print edition features snapshots but China Dailys online avatars carry their views in full. Just scan the QR code in this page for free access. THE AUTHOR IS DIRECTOR OF CHINA DAILY MOTORING MEDIA HUB. ? Questions Q What are your expectations for the auto show? Q With the pandemic slowing down, Chinas automotive market has started to recover in the second quarter. What do you predict for Chinas auto market in the near future? The current recovery trend shows a V shape in sales. What do you think would be in the next stage? A  shape, a W shape, an L shape, or a  shape? Q Can you use a few keywords to describe your predictions for the Chinese and global automotive industries in the next five years? Q The virus has drastically affected peoples lives. It has also caused people to rethink many aspects of life, including their way of traveling, and business management. From your perspective, what are the most important lessons we can take from this pandemic? Can you also use a few keywords to summarize the impact? Q What do you think about the social responsibilities that the automotive companies have taken during the epidemic? Q In the postpandemic era, how will Chinas position and role be affected in the global automotive industry? What do you think the players should do next? ? Aston Martin Lagonda Asia Pacific China President Michael Peng A The Beijing auto show has served as a weathervane around the world. It represents the recovery and vitality of the entire auto industry in the wake of the COVID outbreak. We are proud to participate in the Chinese market. Now that the worst of the outbreak is behind us, we are ushering in new development opportunities. A The achievements of Chinas economy in the postpandemic era are extraordinary, and the weight of the Chinese auto market in the global industry is unquestionable. Especially in the process of market recovery, the consumption upgrade trend is showing a broad market prospect. We are confident of achieving substantial growth. A CONSUMPTION UPGRADE ENERGY SAVING EMISSION REDUCTION INTERCONNECTION INDIVIDUAL NEEDS A Regardless of sales, aftersales or the market, during the outbreak, especially at the most serious stages, we return to the essence. Starting from the things that most concern our customers and business partners, we will do our best to optimize work plans and processes, while providing good services. Looking back, it seems that the outbreak did not cause us to be more distant. Instead, it created a series of touching little actions that brought us closer to our customers. A The operations of most companies were affected during the pandemic. Cash flow and profits have also declined. We should do a good job in the resumption of work and production of the enterprise itself, by trying not to lay off workers or stop work and reduce allocations, so that the interests of the owners are not affected. We also want to ensure that the interests of employees and both upstream and downstream industries are not affected too much by the outbreak. That is the top priority during the COVID pandemic and in the postpandemic era. A In , the global pandemic has greatly changed our way of life, regardless of the industrial form or lifestyle. We also see that Chinas auto industry still has great opportunities, and it is still the worlds most promising market. The outbreak has overturned many past marketing laws by greatly promoting the process of digitalization. Many economic activities, business affairs and even lifestyles are rooted in the online model, which may permanently change the marketing methods of the automotive industry. ? Bentley Motors Chinese Mainland, Hong Kong Macao Managing Director Kim Airey A Though Chinas auto market faced a difficult beginning to  due to the outbreak of COVID, the great support of our customers and stakeholders as well as our strong product range have allowed us to come back quickly and stronger than ever in China. We look forward to rolling out the most advanced products to meet their needs. A Our confidence in and dedication to the China market have never wavered. We are delighted to see the market start to flourish again. China is the biggest car market in the world and one of the largest markets for premium and luxury brands. China has proven itself to be an important engine of global economic growth, manifesting strong resilience and growing signs of recovery. We remain confident about the future. A INNOVATION SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT A During these trying months, amid the harsh COVID pandemic, we stood steadfast alongside our Chinese customers, other stakeholders and our Bentley staff to overcome the most difficult of times together. We are honored to see our Chinese customers continue to embrace Bentley, with strong order banks continuing in this market. During the outbreak period, we learned to constantly revise and implement new safety measures that kept us in compliance with local policy guidelines, so that we could continue to offer products and convenient services to customers while safeguarding the wellbeing of all of our stakeholders. A Corporate social responsibility should be all about action. We have worked closely with the Bentley headquarters in Crewe to share best practices of and insights on the most effective epidemic prevention procedures. In China, we also implemented a series of stringent measures that ensured the safety of our stakeholders and customers while allowing operations to move forward safely and productively. A China plays a leading role in sustainable mobility across the globe, and the outbreak has shown us the strong resilience of the Chinese market. During the unprecedented challenges currently being faced worldwide, the fastrecovering China market is playing a vital role in stabilizing the global industry. The gradual recovery of the auto market, opportunities created by policies promoting greater openingup, sustainable practices in the new energy vehicle sector, and booming market demand are all strengthening Chinas crucial position in the global market. We are confident that China will continue to play a vital role and positively impact the global market. ? Continental China President and CEO Enno Tang A I am very much looking forward to Auto China  in September. This event demonstrates the quick recovery of the automotive market and fast containment of the coronavirus outbreak in China. This years smart vehicle for the future theme will bring cuttingedge technologies and great dialogues during the event. A Volume development in the fourth quarter should be stable. However, the total volume in  could still be about  percent lower than last year due to a significant drop in the first quarter. Looking forward, we expect that the rebounding of Chinas automotive market could continue next year after three straight years of decline. In the middle and long term, we can expect moderate growth. But its still possible that development could be flat, or even drop as the market volatility is increasing. A TRANSFORMATION ELECTRIFICATION INTELLIGENT CONNECTED VEHICLE A We are very pleased that there are no infections among our , Continental employees in China thanks to the protective measures implemented by local authorities and our  locations in China. We gradually resumed operations starting on Feb , and the process went smoothly thanks to the joint efforts of all stakeholders. The impacts of COVID are many and actually include some positive aspects First, the Chinese authorities and people have demonstrated strength in managing the crisis based on their dedication, fast execution and support for one another. Digitalization has been widely used and well recognized to help fight the outbreak. It can accelerate further progress in digital applications to help people in their daily lives and work. A We have witnessed many automotive companies in China exhibit strong senses of corporate social responsibility during the epidemic. Continental was one of them. We are firmly convinced that it would have been impossible to contain the virus and restart business operations quickly without the joint efforts of the authorities, companies and all individuals. A China is enhancing its position as the No  automotive market in the world in terms of share of production and sales volume in the global market. Beyond volume, the Chinese automotive industry is accelerating technological advancement and taking the lead position in fields like electrification and intelligent connected vehicles. Furthermore, the global supply chain will be reshaped with more balance between localization and globalization. The companies in Chinas automotive industry should further focus on innovation, quality and efficiency improvement to be prepared for market volatility and fierce competition. ? DS China Managing Director Nicolas Monnot A Due to COVID, Auto China  was postponed. However, we are very glad to see that it is coming back. The great event shows the full recovery of the Chinese auto market. A With the pandemic under control, weve seen the quick recovery of the Chinese auto market, which has reinforced our dedication to and confidence in the development here in China. As the market and its customers become more mature and upgrade their consumption, we believe the market will continue to grow in the future, especially the premium segment. A ELECTRIFICATION CONNECTIVITY SHARED MOBILITY AUTONOMOUS DRIVING DIFFERENTIATION A Health. The COVID outbreak made more conscious of living a healthier lifestyle and of course paying more attention to our health when we travel. At DS, we care deeply about the health of customers and the materials used in the interior of our vehicles are high quality and environmentally friendly. Online to offline, is playing an even more important role during the postpandemic era. Therefore, we will also strengthen our services, which include applying new OO methodology and a brand miniprogram to providing more tailormade and detailoriented customer services. A We are facing many uncertainties. One true certainty, however, is the growth potential of the Chinese auto market. China is standing at the frontline of new trends in the auto industry and its vehicle consumption keeps growing. That growth will further consolidate the countrys leading position in the global auto industry. DS is committed to longterm development in this prosperous market. We have opened a new chapter in China and customized new brand strategies to make DS stand out from the crowd. ? Ford China President Anning Chen A Although the biennial Beijing Auto Show was postponed for a while, its final arrival is encouraging for all. This time, the show will not only serve as the higheststandard stage for the industry to exhibit the latest brand images, enterprise strategies and products, it will also effectively promote communication for the whole mobility industry. We are looking forward to meeting our customers latest needs and preferences by displaying cuttingedge products that conform to ACES Autonomous, Connected, Electrified and Shared Mobility. A The market recovery has improved our faith in sales for the second half of the year. With the State vigorously advocating new infrastructure construction and promoting the deep integration of the internet, big data, AI, G and traditional industries, Chinas automobile industry is transforming to ACES which will provide the whole industry with new development opportunities. A Ford believes that INNOVATION and INTEGRATION will be the major trends of the future automobile industry upgrading. A The impact of the pandemic forced the whole society to accelerate the digitalization, networking and intelligent transformation. If we want to sum up this period with some key words or phrases, I think keeping calm in the face of difficulties, turning adversity into opportunity, being accountable and persisting in innovation would be appropriate. A The pandemic has been a great challenge for everyone. It dealt the whole automobile industry a heavy blow amid the global economic slowdown. The broken supply chains and the shutdowns of factories and dealers have greatly undermined consumers and investors faith. In this case, no one is an island. Thus, a great number of automobile companies took actions to overcome the difficulties and practice social responsibility by switching their manufacturing from automobile vehicles to various medical supplies, which helped to save themselves and the whole society at the same time. A Although Chinas automobile market has encountered a cold winter in recent years, it is still the largest single market worldwide and has a great consumption advantage. In addition, the epidemic prompted consumers to expect and demand more healthy travel options, which may continue to be an important consideration for consumers in the future. In the face of challenges, automobile companies should remain calm and courageous, and never stop forging ahead. ? GAC Chairman Zeng Qinghong A The economy and our social lives are back on the right track. The successful convening of the Beijing auto show will boost auto companies, which is believed to have a certain boost to the auto market. A The epidemic only changes the current development rhythm of the auto market, but it cannot change the future development direction of the auto market. Affected by the continued spread of overseas epidemics, antiglobalization and trade protectionism, the future will face more instability and tests. While enhancing their own strength, auto companies should increase various forms of strategic cooperation, accelerate research on key core technologies in a more efficient, open and inclusive, collaborative and shared way, turn crises into opportunities in future competition, and promote the development of independent brands. In general, these acceleration trends should move upward in twists and turns. A G INTELLIGENT WINWIN COOPERATION A In this period of outbreak prevention and control, a new generation of information and communication technologies are being represented by G, big data and artificial intelligence. They have all played an important role in the fight against the virus and made us aware of new technologies. Products, new models, and new business formats will also bring rare new opportunities for the development of the countrys automobile industry. It can be summarized in three words amplifier, accelerator and checker. A GAC Group fulfills its corporate social responsibility, mobilizes all forces, donates money and materials, and contributes to the fight against the pandemic. The group started to produce masks in only half a month. Frontline personnel of outbreak prevention and control and public services such as medical care, buses, taxis and subways were given first priority to receive the masks. A As the worlds largest automobile producer and consumer market, China is closely connected with the global automobile industry chain. Chinese auto parts account for  percent of the global market. However, most Chinese parts and components focus on the middle and lowend sectors, and still rely heavily on imports for highend parts such as engines. The global supply and value chains are indeed undergoing marketoriented reorganizations, and the reorganizations are still centered on China. In the future, Chinas parts and components industry should further stabilize the production chain and lay a solid foundation for enhancing the international competitiveness of the industrial and supply chain. ? GM China President Julian Blissett A The Beijing auto show is among the biggest exhibitions across the globe. Its additional proof that the industry has got back on track. We expect to see the exciting products on display further boost consumers confidence in the market and economy. We look forward to seeing a continued rise in consumer demand. A We have full confidence in the China markets nearterm resilience and longterm growth. Its supported by the established capability and cando spirit of the people working in and with this industry. GM will continue to deliver the right products for todays consumers while developing cuttingedge technologies for the future to help sustain industry growth over the long term. A They would be an interestingly contradictory pair. The first word is ANCHOR. The automotive industry will remain a key driving force as the world navigates through a highly fluid economic situation. The second word is SELFDISRUPTION. The changes we have been seeing and making in recent years will exceed what the industry has gone through in the past decades. A It is sad that the pandemic has separated us physically. Many big industry events have had to be cancelled, many facetoface meetings switched to virtual, and peoples personal interactions reduced to a minimum. It has been a time of great uncertainty, but also a time of great empathy, a time when we value the continued trust and support of our partners, suppliers and customers more than ever. A I am really proud of how automakers around the world rallied to develop and produce lifesaving items in short supply. Leveraging the industrys manufacturing prowess, flexibility in retooling and ability to scale up, the quick switch from making vehicles to making masks and ventilators was a tremendous success. Since February, our SAICGMWuling joint venturemanaged to produce about  million face masks, including more than  million for overseas countries. A GM envisions a future with zero crashes, zero emissions and zero congestion. As the largest global automotive market, China certainly has a crucial role to play to unleash the promised future. We look forward to seeing more incentivized infrastructure to enable a faster transformation toward electrification, intelligent driving and connectivity. We also look forward to building an integrated automotive ecosystem to enable the development of services that will make consumers entire experience of mobility safer, better and more sustainable. ? Hyundai Motor Group China President Kwangguk Lee A The Beijing auto show is an important indicator of the recovery of the global automotive industry and will greatly boost both industry and market confidence. At the same time, the theme of this years show is Smartly Leading the Future, which is a stage for the entire industry to showcase the achievements in smart technology. A Although the sales growth rate of the automobile market has slowed in recent years, the market has matured and opened many possibilities for exploration. Chinese consumers have huge consumption demand. The demand for safe, healthy and environmentally friendly travel is also increasingly prominent. Of course, the Chinese auto market, which is deeply integrated into the global industrial chain, will inevitably be affected by external uncertainties such as the recurrence of the epidemic. However, the impact of these unfavorable factors is controllable. I think the Chinese auto market will maintain moderate growth and achieve structural adjustments with a more reasonable and healthier layout. A CLEAN TRAVEL CONNECTED TRAVEL FREE TRAVEL A The first is the code. Fighting the epidemic is both our biggest challenge and our biggest responsibility. The second is stress resistance. Due to the sharp decline in consumption and the poor sales of the entire auto industry, operating pressure is inevitable for many. At this time, both companies and individuals must maintain an optimistic attitude and drive themselves with positive energy. The third is innovation. During the outbreak, travel restrictions and online consumption have exploded, making online car purchase a new choice for communication between auto companies and consumers. A The relationship between enterprises and society must be symbiotic and mutually prosperous. Chinese enterprises have not only made great contributions to the countrys economic development and prosperity, but also made great progress and achievements in undertaking social responsibilities. A In the postpandemic era, the Chinese market will play three key roles. The first is relieving fear. The recovery of the Chinese market undoubtedly gives people hope. The second is circulation. The outbreak has blocked the global automotive industry chain. The recovery of the Chinese market will help restore the flow of the industry chain. The third is to pump up momentum. The recovery of the Chinese market has shown new consumption trends. Peoples awareness and demand for environmental protection and health are becoming more profound. There is no doubt that China will play a core driving role in the global automotive industry chain, and it will also be favored by visionary and ambitious multinational auto companies. They will continue to increase their investment in capital, products, and RD. ? Audi China President Werner Eichhorn A Ive really been looking forward to the Beijing auto showthe only tierone motor show happening in the entire world this yearto see what the industry in China is offering to the world. We are committed to bringing the most fascinating products to our Chinese customers. A A significant recovery in demand has been apparent in China since March. Audis sales in China have seen a significant rebound since April. Looking ahead, I believe there is still great growth potential for the auto market in China, especially in the premium segment, due to the growing purchasing power of Chinese customers. We believe that the premium segment in China can still reach a moderate growth level this year despite the pandemic. A INNOVATION DIGITALIZATION ELECTRIFICATION A The consequences of the pandemic have presented great challenges to everyone around the world, including Audi. Unity and outstanding teamwork are the key to recovering from this crisis. For China, we can see this in the way that the entire country has pulled together for the shared goal of defeating the novel coronavirus. It is the same for Audi. All our employees, managers, partners, investors and suppliers here in China have shown great resilience and team spirit to come together to overcome the unprecedented challenges this year. A The pandemic has highlighted the important role that mobility has in our lives. And thanks to the helpful guidance from the government, and handinhand with our partners, Audi in China was able to safely begin the gradual restart of our business and production operations beginning in February, taking measures to protect the health and livelihoods of our employees and their families. A China is the worlds largest automobile market and also the most vital one for Audi. China is also playing a key role in the transformation of the auto industry. Audi has been a strong and successful premium leader in the China market for more than  years now. One reason for this success has been our localization, tailoring our products to our Chinese customers, which we are now furthering with our In China, For China strategy. Audi wants to have an allwin situation with our Chinese partners as we shape the next golden decade of growth for Audi in China. ? Beijing MercedesBenz Sales Service Co President and CEO Jan Madeja A With the overall recovery in the industry especially in the premium segment, our business dynamics have returned to a positive trend to date since the second quarter of this year. Understanding the dynamic situation worldwide, we remain cautiously optimistic about the future growth of our industry. A If I may share a few words from MercedesBenzs point of view, I would say customercentricity is the core of everything we do, digitalization is empowering our business and product offerings, we have cautious optimism about the future, and sustainable mobility is our goal. We are currently in the midst of an unprecedented industry transformation, with technologyempowered innovations, evolving user demands and worldwide uncertainties adding to the complexity of the auto market. In this context, we have further realized the importance of solidarity, flexibility and keeping our focus on the core. Customers have been and will always be the very core of the auto market, despite the changes taking place in the industry. Therefore, we initiated MercedesBenz Premium Customer Care Golden Rules to serve our customers in China, echoing their aspirations for a premium service experience. This is a guiding principle for us all, from OEM to retail staff. A In China, CSR is also part of our sustainability endeavors.  marks the th anniversary of the MercedesBenz Star Fund. Covering environmental protection, the culture of driving, educational support, culture and arts and social care, we are dedicated to contributing to the social development of China. The auto industry has always been an integral part of social development. We attach great importance to sustainability with a vision. Our Ambition  plan aims to have plugin hybrid electric vehicles and battery electric vehicles account for more than  percent of car sales by , and to have a carbonneutral new passenger car fleet by . We are confident that we can offer the most desirable product offerings with more new energy vehicle options on top of our internal combustion engine models on the journey to missionfree and sustainable mobility. A China is home to the largest, youngest customer group worldwide, and is at the frontier of digitalization. For them, we are continuously working to empower our product portfolios and work mechanisms with digital features. Our newly opened Factory  in Sindelfingen, where the SClass is produced, fully benefits from advanced digital technology with internetofthings, G technology and our MO digital ecosystem, and has realized paperless operating and carbon dioxide neutral operations. ? Infiniti China Managing Director Kevin Mao A With the Geneva auto show, Detroit auto show, Paris auto show, and other auto shows being canceled or held online, the Beijing auto show has become the only toplevel international auto show held offline this year, attracting much attention at home and abroad. A With the increase in market demand, we have regained confidence in the future. The luxury car market was particularly prominent and showed a high growth trend. In August, premium car retail sales increased by  percent yearonyear, and the market share reached a record high of  percent. Although the incremental market turned to the stock market and the pandemic brought downward pressure on the economy, it did not affect the upward trend of the premium car market. A AGE OF THE STOCK MARKET NEW BUSINESS FORMS OF THE DIGITAL ECONOMY BRAND VALUES OF HUMAN AND SERVICEORIENTED A We should build a social consensus and unite all forces to overcome difficulties together. Infiniti has issued a series of targeted dealer assistance policies to maintain its stability in the emergency period. Besides, Infiniti brings the serviceupgrading policy for consumers. And we are also keenly aware that facing a crisis, only by taking the initiative, making innovations, and pursuing change with one heart and one mind can we turn a problem into an opportunity and maintain steady development momentum. A It is not only incumbent but also the mission of auto companies to actively fulfill their social responsibilities in the pandemic. Infiniti published the support policies for dealers and frontline sales immediately, canceled performance assessment of dealers, and provided subsidies for frontline employees. It also used digital platforms to conduct online carviewing, carselecting and improve consumer service experiences during COVID. A Chinas automobile markets tenacious vitality and incredible potential are the key points to realizing economic restoration. The crisis will breed hope. The actions and changes in Chinas automobile market after COVID may lead to new changes in the global automobile industry and enterprises. ? Lamborghini Region Director for Asia Pacific Francesco Scardaoni A I have really big expectations for the Beijing Auto Show. The overall automotive industry has seen a reduction, but the super luxury segment has seen an increase. For our two segments specifically, the exclusive super sports cars and the Super SUVs, both are growing. A I think that it will grow in the coming years. I think it will have two different paths. The first will be rapid growth just in the next one to two years maximum. Then stabilization, in which it will slightly grow. With new models and new players in the market offering a greater variety of products, the chance will exist for people to renew their cars, to think about something different in terms of powertrain and so on. That will create more steep growth. Finally, in a couple of years, we will see the trend of a more stable market. A SUSTAINABLE GROWTH GO ELECTRIC INDEPTH CUSTOMIZATION A The first lesson learned is that Lamborghini China had to be agile and fast to react. I think one of the main points is that if you have an agile company, you can adjust your strategy to perfectly match and fit the market. The second lesson to me, is always to be creative. When something happens, like the pandemic this year, you arent ready to react because you dont have this natural creative mindset. The third lesson is the importance of the digital world. We saw there was significant risk in having a split between Lamborghini and our customers. So we began the digital sales process and digital test drive to let them feel the emotion and the sound. We also asked our dealers to change their attitude and their style to accommodate a digital audience and guided them through that process so they could be successful. A Car companies have a profound influence on our lives. They tell u