Trump pays respects to Ginsburg at Supreme Court amid boos as battle over her replacement brews
2020/9/25 15:20
US President Donald Trump reacts to people on the sidewalk booing him while he and First Lady Melania Trump pay their respects to late Associate Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg as her casket lies in repose at the top of the steps of the US Supreme Court building in Washington, US, September , .? WASHINGTON  US President Donald Trump paid his respects to the late Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg at the Supreme Court here on Thursday morning amid boos from mourners as a partisan battle over her replacement brews. Trump and first lady Melania Trump, both wearing masks, observed a moment of silence at the top of the steps of the court building, looking down at Ginsburgs coffin draped in the American flag and surrounded by bouquets of white flowers. The brief stay was booed by a nearby crowd waiting in line to pay tribute to the liberal icon, added loud chants of vote him out and honor her wish. Speaking to reporters at the White House before leaving for an event in Charlotte, North Carolina on his health care proposals on Thursday afternoon, Trump called the boos just a political chant. We could hardly hear it from where we were. Somebody said there was some chanting. But they were right next to the media. But we really could hardly hear too much. We heard a sound, but it wasnt very strong, he said. A renowned champion of womens rights, Ginsburg died last week at the age of  due to complications related to metastatic pancreas cancer. She was appointed to the Supreme Court by thenPresident Bill Clinton in , becoming the second woman appointed to the highest court in the United States. My most fervent wish is that I will not be replaced until a new president is installed, Ginsburg reportedly dictated to her granddaughter Clara Spera a few days before her death. Despite this, Trump has said he will announce a pick to fill Ginsburgs seat on Saturday afternoon. On Thursday, he declined to talk about the candidates and only said that he thinks its going to be a very monumental  a very good choice. Five women are on his shortlist. Judges Amy Coney Barrett and Barbara Lagoa, both conservatives that the Senate confirmed in bipartisan votes, are said to be top contenders. Since mid, when Trump was the presumptive Republican presidential nominee, he and Ginsburg had traded barbs. Recently, the president suggested that it was Democratic politicians who wrote her dying wish, a claim that critics have called baseless. Trump successfully appointed two conservatives on the Supreme Courts ninejustice bench, Neil Gorsuch in  and Brett Kavanaugh in , tilting the institution to the right with  majority. Trumps third nominee would cement a  conservative advantage. U.S. Supreme Court justices, who have life tenure and can serve until they die, resign, retire, or are impeached and removed from office, and play an enormous role in shaping the countrys legislation and policies on issues such as abortion, LGBT rights, gun rights, climate change, and presidential powers. Republicans, who have a  majority in the Senate, appear to have enough votes to confirm Trumps next Supreme Court nominee. Only two Republican senators have said they would not support taking up a Supreme Court nominee prior to the November election. Democrats oppose moving forward with a vote on Ginsburgs replacement before Election Day, which is only a number of weeks away, pointing to Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnells decision to block former president Barack Obamas nominee, Merrick Garland, because it was an election year, which all but ensures a a fierce confirmation battle on Capitol Hill. McConnell and Senate Republicans have argued that this time is different because the Senate and the White House are held by the same party. The Senate has neverNEVERconfirmed a Supreme Court nominee this close to the election, Senate Minority Leader and New York Democrat Chuck Schumer tweeted on Thursday. This is nothing more than a power grab  and we are fighting it. The role of the Supreme Court is likely to be more important this year, as Trump, whos trailing  Democratic presidential nominee and former U.S. Vice President Joe Biden in national and swing states polls, has repeatedly tried to cast doubt on the election while refusing to commit to a peaceful transition of power should he lose. We want to make sure the election is honest and Im not sure that it can be. I dont know that it can be with this whole situation, unsolicited ballots, Trump told reporters on Thursday afternoon, referring to mailin ballots, which many parts of the country have expanded so as to allow people to vote safely during the pandemic. For months, the president has claimed that the expansion of mailin ballots would lead to massive voter fraud, while U.S. election pundits have argued there is no evidence of meaningful fraud in mail voting. Christopher Wray, director of the U.S. Federal Bureau of Investigation, told a Senate hearing on Thursday that they have not seen, historically, any kind of coordinated national voter fraud effort in a major election, whether its by mail or otherwise. Trump said Wednesday that he believes the Supreme Court would have to weigh in on the election. I think this will end up in the Supreme Court, he said during a White House event. And I think its very important that we have nine justices. In , the U.S. Supreme Court decided in a disputed recount of votes in Florida with a  ruling, effectively handing that years presidential election to the Republican presidential candidate and thengovernor of Texas George W. Bush, who won  electoral votes, one more than a majority. However, Bush lost the popular vote to Democrat Al Gore. Any election disputes would have to go through lower courts and may not even reach the high court, according to U.S. election and legal experts.