EU ponders coordinated migrant policy
2020/9/25 10:52
Unaccompanied children from overcrowded migrant camps who will be transferred to Germany, wear protective face masks as a precaution against the spread of coronavirus disease COVID as they arrive to board a plane at the Athens International Airport, Greece, April , .? The European Union has called on its  members to support a Germanled proposal to deal with the flood of people entering the bloc without invitation, a plan that could be in place by next summer. Ursula von der Leyen, head of the EUs executive branch, the European Commission, described the proposal as a European solution... to restore citizens confidence. Von der Leyen, who was a member of Angela Merkels German government between  and , said a compulsory system for all EU nations was the best way to manage migration. The proposal, which will be debated later this year, calls for member states to either house asylumseekers and migrants or handle the sending back of those refused sanctuary. Merkel said the plan would ensure a fair sharing of responsibility and solidarity between member states while providing certainty for individual applicants. The plan follows four years of mass unplanned migration into the EU that started with . million irregular arrivals in . Some nations, including Greece, Italy, and Spain, have housed vast new populations while others, especially those in Central and Eastern Europe, have refused to help. The proposal includes compulsory preentry screening, to establish the health, identity, and security risk of applicants, and it promises a faster processing of applications for asylum, with decisions made within  weeks and those who fail being sent home soon after. The plan also calls for nations to be paid , euros , for each refugee or asylumseeker accepted who was rescued from the Mediterranean Sea. EU member states would contribute toward the huge cost of looking after migrants, proportionally to their GDP. The BBC quoted Ylva Johansson, the EUs home affairs commissioner, as saying the proposal is a compromise that attempts to cover nations that want to help more people and those that want to accept no migrants. She acknowledged it is, therefore, likely not what any individual membernation wants. But, she said I think we would have  member states and Parliament that would say its worth working on this. The proposals have, however, failed to impress charities including Save the Children and Amnesty International. Save the Children described them as an example of the EU failing to learn from its recent mistakes, while Amnesty International said they are designed to heighten walls and strengthen fences. Marissa Ryan, head of Oxfams EU office, told the Guardian newspaper The commission has bowed to pressure from EU governments whose only objective is to decrease the number of people granted protection in Europe. The paper noted that the proposed changes to the blocs asylum and migration rules have been four years in the making and were held up earlier this year by the novel coronavirus pandemic.