US coronavirus cases hit  million
2021/9/12 11:41
 candidates from  election teams are contesting  of the  seats in Macao Special Administrative Regions Legislative Assembly on Sunday. Some polling stations saw voters lining up before the polling began at  am. In light of the pandemic, the  polling stations in the city opened to the public to wait indoors  minutes before the polling began. Voting will end at  pm. Speaking to CCTV, the Director of Public Administration and Civil Service Bureau Kou Pengkuan and member of the Electoral Affairs Commission for the Legislative Assembly Election said voters need to present their health code and wear mask and use disinfectant before entering the polling station. The commission also updated its system to expedite the voting and counting. The initial result is expected to be announced by early morning of Monday. According to the commission, the first hour polling rate was . percent, with over , voters casting their votes. The rate was . percent lower than that of the last election held in . Apart from the  seats returned by the public on Sunday,  seats in the Legislative Assembly will be determined through indirect election by professional sectors and seven seats will be appointed by the Chief Executive of Macao Special Administrative Region Ho Iatseng. The appointments will be made within  days of the election result being announced. At a media briefing on Sunday morning, Ho Iatseng said he hoped that the future Legislative Council members would highlight any inadequate performance by the government, thus helping the government improve its work. In August, the SAR government sent out poll notices to over , eligible voters registered for the election of the seventh Legislative Assembly. According to the citys electoral system, votes received by every election team will be allocated proportionally to candidates listed in the group with the first candidate on the list taking all the votes received for the team and the second candidates taking half of the votes and the third taking a quarter of the votes. Each candidate will then be ranked in order of the number of ballots received and the top  will win seats. The same vote counting method, which is known as the modified dHondt method, will be used for the indirect election. The city holds its legislative election every four years. In July, Macaos Electoral Affairs Commission disqualified  candidates from standing for the legislative election for failing to pledge allegiance to the Macao SAR or uphold the regions Basic Law. Later, the Macao Court of Final Appeal dismissed appeals filed by some barred candidates and upheld the Electoral Affairs Commissions decision, limiting the number of hopefuls competing in the direct election to .