France tightens local restrictions to curb coronavirus
2020/9/24 10:42
? A health worker, wearing a protective suit and a face mask, prepares to administer a nasal swab to a patient at a testing site for the coronavirus disease COVID installed in front of the city hall in Paris, France, Sept , .  PARIS  In France where daily coronavirus infections have been around , for more than one week, restrictive measures will be tightened in socalled red zone in accordance with local epidemic situation, Minister of Health Olivier Veran said on Wednesday. The virus spreading accelerates sharply. The situation continues to deteriorate... If we do not take measures quickly, we risk reaching critical thresholds in some regions, said Veran at a press conference following a cabinet meeting. Taking the great Paris region as an example, the minister said that at the current rate,  percent of regional resuscitation capacities will be used for COVID cases by Oct.  before rising to  percent by Oct.  and  percent by Nov. . Since last Saturday,  departments in the country, where the COVID incidence, or the number of positive cases per , inhabitants over a week, is greater than , have been classified as zone of alert or red zone. In all of these territories, parties, weddings and associative events must be held in small groups, which means less than  people, said the minister, adding that local authorities can take all the necessary measures that they consider relevant. In zone of enhanced alert where the incidence is above , now including Paris and eight other cities, starting from Saturday, bars will be closed at  p.m., limit of attendance to public events is cut from , to , and gatherings of more than  people are prohibited in public spaces such as beaches and parks, said the minister. In Marseille and Guadeloupe, now zone of maximum alert as the incidence there has gone above , in addition to the measures envisaged for the enhanced alert zones, bars and restaurants will be totally closed, announced the minister. If, despite these measures, the health situation worsens further, these areas could go into a state of health emergency, he said. In March, France went into a twomonth national lockdown after the government declared state of health emergency. We are doing everything to avoid confinement measures, said Veran. We are not in the situation of last spring. We do not envision widespread reconfinement and we do not want reconfinement in any form. As of Wednesday, France had registered a cumulative total of , COVID cases, including , in the last  hours. The death toll rose by  to a total of ,, according to official figures.