Blaming China wont solve Americas problems
2020/9/24 9:47
A Report on US Response to COVID and its Blame Game July ,  CONTENTS A Botched Response? Missed warnings? Missteps and lost opportunities? Ignoring the science? Reduced preparedness? Politics v.s. public health? A Senseless Blame Game? A timeline of Chinese transparency and response? Rising animosity? A Way Out and Forward? Appendix? Blaming China Wont Solve Americas Problems As of Monday, July , the US case tally for coronavirus that causes COVID topped . million, with over , deaths, the highest case toll in the world, according to data aggregated by Johns Hopkins University. Noting that the United States reported its first confirmed case on January , people in the US and around the world have been stunned by the surging cases which approached one million within  weeks, then surpassed the two million mark in  weeks and now hit the third million milestone in just four weeks, still showing no signs of ebbing. They cant help but wonder whats happened in the US and why. A Botched Response There is a general belief in the international community and among most Americans that the US federal government botched its initial response to the coronavirus outbreak. President Donald Trump signed a national emergency declaration over the coronavirus pandemic on March ,  days after the US government was officially notified of COVID by China and the World Health Organization WHO, and  days after the Chinese city of Wuhan with  million residents went into lockdown due to the outbreak of COVID. During the span of these days, what was the US federal government doing to stem the spread of the virus? Were these days lost opportunities which should have been seized to better prepare for and respond to the outbreak? Missed warnings What a problem. Came out of nowhere. Thats how President Trump described the coronavirus pandemic in early March, during a televised visit to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention CDC of the US It is a big problem, indeed. But it did not come out of nowhere. Numerous news reports of interviews with current and former US officials, internal emails, memorandums and other recently unearthed evidence from Washington indicate that the White House was being warned of a coming pandemic and its possible consequences. Throughout January, as the White House repeatedly played down the seriousness of the virus and focused on other issues, an array of figures inside the government, from top White House advisers to experts deep in the cabinet departments and intelligence agencies, identified the threat, sounded alarms and made clear the need for aggressive action, according to the New York Times. For weeks, however, repeated warnings went unheeded and the White House had been giving Americans the same be happy, dont worry advice We have it totally under control, and USA in great shape! Missteps and lost opportunities In addition to these missed early warnings, other major missteps and lost opportunities at the federal level have also contributed to the surging cases, especially stalled testing issues. Coronavirus testing, early treatment, contact tracing, isolation, mask wearing, social distancing, travel restrictions, shelterinplace, and lockdowns are all blunt but crucial steps and instruments in fighting a pandemic. Testing is a key link in the chain of necessary measures of response. As Dr. Bruce Aylward, a senior adviser at the World Health Organization said, testing was absolutely vital for understanding how to defeat a disease. He said at the WHO media briefing on COVID on March  that we have a simple message for all countries test, test, test. The White House assembled a task force that coordinates and oversees the Administrations efforts to monitor, prevent, contain, and mitigate the spread of COVID. But early on the members of the coronavirus task force typically devoted only five or  minutes, often at the end of contentious meetings, to talk about testing, several participants recalled, according to the New York Times interviews. The CDC insisted upon devising its own test for COVID, and came out with a flawed test that didnt work as expected, then took weeks to figure out a fix. Hence a lost month for the US. Another problem hampered timely and extensive testing. On many occasions, testing was delayed for a long time because the patient didnt fit restrictive federal criteria, which limited tests only to symptomatic patients who recently traveled to China. The restrictive testing guidelines helped mask the numbers contracting the coronavirus in the US. If you dont run tests, then you wont have a clear picture of confirmed cases and how the virus spreads. Armed with such an underreported case number, the Trump administration could boast of keeping the spread under control, but missed its best chance of containing the viruss spread. Had the US been able to track the viruss earliest reach and identify hidden hot spots of community transmission, local quarantines might have been able to confine the disease, according to reports in the New York Times. The federal governments failure to respond to the coronavirus pandemic has been apparent in its bungled messaging downplaying the crisis, in its inability to send out millions of much needed test kits and protective medical gear for health care workers, and its lack of will to seek national solidarity and international collaboration on fighting COVID. There are some root causes for the negligence, inaction and loopholes in dealing with the pandemic. Ignoring the science The White House has engaged in a tugofwar with experts over coronavirus policy. As an Economist opinion piece pointed out, to fight the outbreak, America needs clear, unvarnished public information and policies based on the best science. But as CNN, New York Times and other US and international media report, the Trump administration is shunting science aside in the battle against coronavirus, and scientists advice in government is no longer sought or pointedly ignored. Associated Press writers recently stated that the Presidents gut sense collides with science. A case in point, President Donald Trump and the governments top infectious disease expert, Dr. Anthony Fauci, are politely but publicly sparing over whether a malaria drug would work to treat people with coronavirus disease. The President also openly clashed with his top public health officials on the likelihood of the virus returning for another assault in the fall. The Presidents idea of injecting disinfectants is only the latest episode. Trump seems to put science, medicine and controlled studies on equal footing with rumor and anecdotes, said Sudip Parikh, a biochemist who is chief executive officer of the American Association for the Advancement of Science AAAS, according to a report by AP. Mixing those two up when talking to the public is terrible for communication, Parikh said. Trump ignores science at our peril, opined Elliott Negin, a senior writer at the Union of Concerned Scientists, for the Hill on March . Alexei Bayer, a Senior Editor at The Globalist, in his article entitled Trumps Dangerous War on Science, states that long before the onset of the COVID pandemic, the world has known that Donald Trump has been playing fast and loose with science. Comments in an AP news report by M. Granger Morgan, a Carnegie Mellon University engineering and policy professor, echoed these appraisals Presidents of both parties often put politics before science, and the Trump administration has regularly contradicted science and doctors. Reduced preparedness Lack of attention to federal preparedness and coordination also helps explain why the Trump administration has consistently botched its response to the coronavirus pandemic. Fortune Magazine reports that over the past two years, the Trump administration has systematically been dismantling government agencies specifically designed to protect against pandemics like COVID. They have eliminated funding for an Obamaera disease security program. In , Rear Adm. Timothy Ziemer, whose responsibility was to lead a US response to a pandemic such as COVID, left the administration as his global health team was disbanded. According to Dr Peter Mjos, retired after over four decades in general medicine and public health in Anchorage, Donald Trump called for an overall  billion reduction in health care spending in , including slashing the global disease fighting budgets of CDC, the National Security Council NSC and the Department of Homeland Security DHS. He eliminated global health security teams at NSC and DHS. These cuts have crippled the production and availability of COVID test kits. In , he eliminated the Predict Program of the USAID, an institution established in  to improve the detection and discovery of zoonotic viruses such as COVID with pandemic potential, a program credited with identifying nearly  new zoonotic viruses. Right before the onset of the COVID  pandemic, the White House released its budget request for fiscal , Trump proposed further cuts in scientific and medical research. All in all, the cuts, coupled with the administrations repeated calls to cut the budget for the CDC and other public health agencies, made it clear that the Trump administration wasnt prioritizing the federal governments ability to respond to disease outbreaks. Politics v.s. public health Does the Trump administration prioritize politics over public health amid the worst public health crisis in the US in a century? The answers depend on who you ask in the US For President Trump as well as his opponent in the  general election, this year will be the COVID election. Like it or not, voters will almost certainly be asked to choose sides concerning how Trump performs during the pandemic condemn or endorse his handling of the crisis. Polls and surveys of social media in the past few weeks show that voters are mostly divided along party lines on how President Donald Trump handles coronavirus outbreak. Though his overall approval rating has ranged between  and  with some bumps since the onset of the US coronavirus crisis in early March, the support of his response among Republicans has been just as overwhelming as condemnation of his performance among Democrats. But recent polls suggest that confidence in the president to handle the outbreak has slipped among some crucial voting blocs in the general election, fueling Republican anxieties, according to the New York Times. The White House and Republicans certainly do not want to take any responsibility for a sluggish response to the outbreak as clearly shown by the Presidents statements at his daily briefings. Amid rising discontent with his pandemic response as well as a recordbreaking number of Americans filing for unemployment, Trump and his political strategists feel very comfortable with their familiar playbook of the  campaign as he seeks a second term blame the outsiders. And for Democrats, they would put all the blame on Trump, highlighting how he initially downplayed the pandemic, and fingerpointing his subsequent stumbles. They would try to show voters that they could offer good governance. According to Mr. Lee Drutman, a senior fellow in the Political Reform program at New America, the COVID blame game is going to get uglier. In his view, for both the Republicans and Democrats, there is a crude calculation If Democrats can successfully associate the substantial harm wreaked by COVID with Trump, they win in November. But if Trump and the Republicans can deflect enough blame elsewhere and Trump gets credit for making things less bad than they could have been, Trump will win. Indeed, any year would have been a bad year for a pandemic. But a presidential election year in the US makes it even worse. A political battle leading to bigger and bitter polarization among Americans does not bode well for the pandemic battle. Among other things, a blame game ensues. A Senseless Blame Game For Trump and Republicans, the outsiders to blame include Democrats, the mainstream media or the Fake News, even some of Americas governors, as well as China and the WHO. In the case of COVID, China is an easy target. President Trump, Vice President Pence, Secretary of State Pompeo, some members of the US Congress and their supporters accuse China of covering up the epidemic, not sharing sufficient information sooner, and understating the number of cases. They claim, explicitly or implicitly, that the coronavirus originated in a lab in Wuhan. They even would like to make China accountable for US losses in the pandemic. President Trump accused WHO of being China centric, and said he was halting funding to WHO and would begin a review WHOs role in severely mismanaging and covering up the spread of coronavirus. These accusations and claims do not square with the facts. A timeline of Chinese transparency and response Did China offer accurate and sufficiently detailed information on COVID to the WHO and countries such as the US in a timely manner? On December , , Zhang Jixian, director of the Department of Respiratory and Critical Care at Hubei Hospital of Integrated Traditional Chinese and Western Medicine, reported the first three suspected cases of pneumonia of unknown cause, followed by epidemiological investigation carried out by related centers for disease control and prevention and hospitals in Hubei and Wuhan, leading to an urgent notice on the treatment of pneumonia of unknown cause issued by Wuhan Municipal Health Committee on December . On the following day, the National Health Commission NHC sent an expert group and a working group to Wuhan to investigate on site and guide epidemic response. On the same day, the Wuhan Municipal Health Commission released a briefing on its website about the pneumonia outbreak in the city, confirming  cases and telling the public not to go to enclosed public places or gather. It suggested wearing face masks when going out. Starting December , , the Wuhan Municipal Health Commission released briefings on the pneumonia outbreak in accordance with the law. It can be seen that during the initial stage of detecting the disease up to December , a sizable group of professionals from local CDCs and hospitals as well as from the NHC scrambled to investigate and assess the disease. This level of early alertness, awareness and quick response by Chinese professionals could be attributed in some degree to their experiences of the  severe acute respiratory syndrome SARS outbreak and lessons learned thereafter. While the investigation was going on and much was unknown about the virus, the Chinese government told the WHO office in China about a new unknown illness on December . On January , , the NHC set up a leading group to determine the emergency response to the epidemic, convening meetings on a daily basis since then. On the following day, the China CDC and the Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences CAMS received the first batch of samples of four patients from Hubei Province and began pathogen identification. And on January , China started to send timely updates to WHO and other countries, including the US China began to inform America of the viral pneumonia outbreak and response measures on a regular basis. These early briefings include a phone conversation between the Head of the China CDC and the director of the US CDC on January  January , US Eastern Time. The same day, US CDC director Robert Redfield informed Secretary of Health and Human Services Alex Azar, a cabinet official in the Trump administration, of the new outbreak in China, and Azar told Redfield to inform the White Houses National Security Council, according to US news reports. On Twitter, WHO publicly announced that China had informed it that there were mysterious pneumonia cases, although no deaths so far, in Wuhan, China. WHO said that investigations are underway to identify the cause of this illness and that it is working across the  levels country office, regional office, HQ to track the situation. By then, a week after the first report of the illness of unknown cause in Wuhan, China, the Trump administration as well as all other countries were officially informed of the pneumonia outbreak. As of February , China had given the United States briefings on the epidemic information and control measures in China for  times, almost on a daily basis, including sharing with US CDC project manager in China information about Chinas diagnosis and treatment guidelines, prevention and control guidelines, and the linkage of the novel coronavirus database that China shares with the world in real time. Since releasing its first briefing on cases of pneumonia of unknown cause in Wuhan on January , WHO has also provided frequent briefings and updates on the outbreak. The abovementioned intensity of action on the Chinese side and interaction between China, WHO and its Member States has shown that from the very beginning, the US government has never been kept in the dark by the Chinese side or WHO when it comes to COVID. According to the International Health Regulations IHR, each State Party shall notify WHO, by the most efficient means of communication available, by way of the National IHR Focal Point, and within  hours of assessment of public health information, of all events which may constitute a public health emergency of international concern within its territory in accordance with the decision instrument, as well as any health measure implemented in response to those events. The requirement of notification within  hours refers to a timeframe of accomplishing assessment of public health information and coming to a conclusion that the events may constitute a public health emergency of international concern within its territory. It took China just a few days to go through the process of assessment and determination as well as initial steps to prevent and control the viral pneumonia of unknown cause before it officially notified WHO of its findings on the events. The International Health Regulations provides that following a notification, a State Party shall continue to communicate to WHO timely, accurate and sufficiently detailed public health information available to it on the notified event, where possible including case definitions, laboratory results, source and type of the risk, number of cases and deaths, conditions affecting the spread of the disease and the health measures employed. China has followed these regulations and updated WHO regularly. China has fulfilled its IHR obligations of keeping WHO notified of the events in Wuhan in particular and China as a whole. China also hosted a field visit by a WHO delegation to Wuhan January  to , and the WHOChina Joint Mission on Coronavirus Disease  COVD with members from the US In addition, the China CDC succeeded in isolating the first novel coronavirus strain on January , and an expert team from the NHC made public of the pathogen on January , saying a new type of coronavirus was initially identified as the cause of the viral pneumonia in Wuhan. WHO was informed by China of the initial progress in this respect and released on its website a statement regarding a cluster of pneumonia cases in Wuhan, saying that preliminary identification of a novel coronavirus in a short period of time is a notable achievement. And two other notable achievements by the Chinese side include On January , research institutions including the Wuhan Institute of Virology WIV developed testing kits and Wuhan City organized tests of all relevant cases admitted at hospitals in the city. And on January , the China CDC, the CAMS and the WIV under the Chinese Academy of Sciences CAS, as designated agencies of the NHC, submitted to WHO the genome sequence of the novel coronavirus nCoV, which was published by the Global Initiative on Sharing All Influenza Data GISAID and shared globally. US virus hunter and EcoHealth Alliance President Peter Daszak stated on CNN host Fareed Zakarias show GPS aired on April  that early on China was very open. They shared the full genome sequences of the viruses and openly with the rest of the world very, very quickly, quicker than weve ever seen this before for any country, really. This comment has been echoed by the medical and health community around the world, including WHO. The speed of the findings has been characterized as impressive. Preliminary identification of a novel virus in a short period of time is a notable achievement and demonstrates Chinas increased capacity to manage new outbreaks, WHOs representative in China, Dr. Gauden Galea, said in a statement. In retrospect, the first known case in the Wuhan outbreak became noticeably ill on December , according to a statement released January  by the Wuhan Municipal Health Commission. The discovery of an outbreak and identification of a new virus in a period of less than one month is exceptional, experts said, according to Helen Branswell, Senior Writer on Infectious Disease for STAT. I am stunned by the timeline and speed of this isolation and characterization, if its all true, said Matthew Frieman, a coronavirus expert at the University of Maryland School of Medicine. In his tweet on January , President Trump praised Chinas efforts to control the virus spread China has been working very hard to contain the Coronavirus. The United States greatly appreciates their efforts and transparency. It will all work out well. Since then and throughout late January and February, Trump had repeatedly praised Chinas handling of the outbreak, acknowledging that China was doing a very professional job and in touch with WHO and the US CDC. But as the US led the world in illness and death and when American financial markets shuttered amid fears of a worsened pandemic after crucial weeks squandered by the White House to mitigate the coronavirus outbreak, the Trump administration resorted to a blame game focusing on China. When the US registered the highest number of reported infections and deaths in the world, the White House and its senior officials began to express doubt over Chinas data as if a much higher number of Chinese infections and deaths would have made American numbers look nicer to American voters and American leaders take less responsibility for the tolls. That is the key to understanding the shift of the Trump administrations narrative from acknowledging Chinas transparency and professional work in handling COVID spread to blaming China. As a matter of fact, China succeeded in flattening the curve of coronavirus growth by taking comprehensive and stringent measures, not by distorting the statistics. The Chinese government has time and again stressed the importance of getting the data accurate throughout the fight against the pandemic, and those officials who may not follow the rules of reporting will be held accountable. Over  days, governments and health departments at the national, provincial and municipal levels provided daily updates on the pandemic and related questions, releasing information of both tallies of cases and individual cases so as to increase public awareness of the situation and assist in timely contact tracing. More than , such press conferences were held during the period. With a cellphone in hand, each Chinese citizen has access to information that may alert them to risks of being physically close to confirmed cases or suspected cases either in their neighborhoods, workplaces or in public transport vehicles. According to the report of the WHOChina Joint Mission on Coronavirus Disease  COVD, released in February, China has a policy of meticulous case and contact identification for COVID. For example, in Wuhan more than  teams of epidemiologists, with a minimum of  peopleteam, were tracing tens of thousands of contacts a day. Contact follow up is painstaking but necessary. Nearly  million urban and rural community workers joined the fight against the outbreak and tried to keep COVID away from , communities in China. Timely and accurate data on the pandemic is what they need for the fight. Under these circumstances, any coverup or deliberate underreporting of COVID cases or the scale of the outbreak in China is beyond imagination. No one in the world is more willing and eager than the Chinese government and people to have a clear understanding of the scale, the nature and the infectiousness of the virus in the country. One of the lessons learned so far on COVID is that the earlier you act, the easier you can control the disease. So, what if China acted swiftly, proactively, decisively and comprehensively earlier than it did, say back in early January or even late December ? That is exactly what many people have been wondering and what has prompted some people to question Chinas delay. That is also the logic used by some American politicians to shift blame to China. Indeed, cases could have been reduced by  percent,  percent and  percent respectively, if the response could have been conducted one week, two weeks, or three weeks earlier, according to a study by the University of Southampton, the U.K, prompting some news reports to use headlines such as Chinas week delay in coronavirus response accelerated spread. The question is, the study was released on March ,  days after the Wuhan lockdown and  days after China notified WHO of the event of the viral pneumonia of unknown cause. So, it was a retrospective study based on data available from China and the world after weeks of fighting COVID. Simply no one in the world has a time machine to travel back in time from the future to late December or early January to tell the Chinese that they should lockdown a metropolitan city of  million people and cancel hundreds of millions of planned trips before the Spring Festival falling on January , the biggest and longest national holiday in China. The first two weeks since the first report of three cases of pneumonia of unknown cause were spent by Chinese professionals, wasting no time, retrospectively speaking, to research the cases available, and their understanding of the disease increased with each passing day, as can be seen through their successive findings and achievements over time, including the identification of the pneumonia to be viral and of a novel coronavirus that causes the disease, development of testing kits, and submission to the WHO the genome sequence of the novel coronavirus nCoV. The first three weeks also witnessed how Chinese professionals deepened their understanding of the nature, scale and infectiousness of the disease. First they suspected that the disease might be infectious like SARS, but found no clear evidence of humantohuman transmission, then they believed that there might be limited humantohuman transmission, and finally they came to a conclusion and made it to the public that the previously unknown coronavirus definitely spreads between people. During the first three weeks, scientists and other professionals also reported preliminary estimates of key epidemiologic parameters of COVID, such as the incubation period, case fatality ratio, and the serial interval and the basic reproduction number R. These findings served as a foundation for government decisionmaking. As in all events of infectious disease, we all wish that those affected could respond to the outbreak earlier, and we all believe that an earlier warning could have saved many lives. In retrospect, local officials in Wuhan should have been more forthcoming and vigorous early on in their response to the emergence of the virus. But as in other countries, decision makers had to walk a fine line between alerting the public and avoiding panic, based on their knowledge and judgement of the nature and severity of the virus spread. If health officials raise the alarm prematurely, it can damage their credibility  like crying wolf and cripple their ability to mobilize the public, said Benjamin Cowling, an epidemiologist at the University of Hong Kong, according to a news report by AP. On the th, they sounded the alarm for the whole country, which is not an unreasonable delay, said Dr Ray Yip, the retired founding head of the US CDCs office in China, according to the same news report. Even the alarm sounded by China on January  left the US nearly two months to prepare for the pandemic. Therefore, the perceived delay of Chinas response could not serve as any excuse for the Trump administrations sluggish response. As for allegations that COVID was manmade in the Wuhan Institute of Virology WIV or caused by an accidental leak from the institute, WIV has stated unequivocally that theres no way coronavirus originated there. So far worldrenowned journals such as the Lancet, Nature, Science published articles and comments to dismiss these claims. A representative voice has been made by Peter Daszak who has been working with the WIV for the past  years. During his interviews with CNN on  April and CBS  Minutes on May , he said that the Wuhan P Laboratory didnt have the virus that led to COVID. In his words, Nobody has the virus from bats that then led to COVID. Weve not found it yet. We found close relatives, but its not the same virus. Therefore, its not a possibility that the virus could have come from that lab. All scientists concerned with the coronavirus would like to trace its origins, but the research should be left to scientists without being politicized. As for those who would pursue lawsuits or other means against China based on their allegations of the socalled Chinas responsibility for the global spread of COVID, there is no legal basis for any such lawsuits and no factual evidence to support their allegations against China. They will go nowhere. What matters is the attitude of American politicians toward the coronavirus outbreak in the US Are they willing to take responsibility for COVID fight in their own country? Whereas China faced a sudden surprise in the early stage of encounters with the unknown virus, the Trump administration has been on notice for weeks. The China blame game is going on as if weeks of warnings from China, Asia and Europe, and especially the lockdown of a Chinese city of . million people have not been strong enough a message to the White House and its supporters. Then exactly what kind of transparency, data, response and message on Chinas part would have been enough for the Trump administration to get serious and ready about the pandemic? Could the White House name a date in the timeline of Chinese response as the best possible moment for the US to get the right message from China or the WHO that might have prompted the US to engage in a timely, effective, comprehensive, coordinated national response? Theyve simply lost time they cant make up. You cant get back six weeks of blindness, Jeremy Konyndyk, a senior policy fellow at the Center for Global Development and an Obamaera administration staffer involved in the governments response to the spread of the Ebola virus, told the Washington Post. To the extent that theres someone to blame here, the blame is on poor, chaotic management from the White House and failure to acknowledge the big picture. Rising animosity China has been a punching bag for political forces in the US for decades, and Chinabashing has taken on new intensity in the recent decade since China overtook Japan as the second biggest economy in the world. China has been increasingly viewed as a strategic competitor, a clear and present rather than a potential challenge or even threat to America. President Trump cashed in on Chinabashing during his first presidential campaign, and now downplaying the Trump administrations bungled response to the pandemic and focusing on blaming China is already part of a wellpublicized Republican campaign strategy. The China blame game is both undesirable and deadly. It has further soured the atmosphere of ChinaUS relations and sharpened tensions between the two countries. As a result, the number of Americans holding negative views of China is increasing, with Republicans being more likely than Democrats to view China unfavorably, according 