Beijing nighttime activities return
2020/9/23 1:30
FILE PHOTO A man walks near Nasdaq MarketSite in an empty Times Square as the coronavirus disease COVID outbreak continues in New York City, U.S., March , .  The US death toll from COVID tops , on Tuesday, accounting for onefifth of the global casualties from the pandemic, as experts warned of further increases in infections and mortality as cooler fall weather moves people indoors. As of Tuesday morning, , people in the US had died from COVID, with . million infected with the novel coronavirus, according to data compiled by Johns Hopkins University, which registered a global death toll of ,. That means the US toll doubled in four months  in late May the country reported , deaths from the infection. These are not numbers these are human beings. These are friends and family, Dr Ali H. Mokdad, chief strategy officer of the Population Health Initiative at the University of Washington UW, told China Daily. Im concerned that were coming into fall and winter where well have more infection and well have much more mortality, unfortunately, he said in a video interview. On Monday, the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention CDC withdrew guidance that had said airborne transmission was thought to be the main way the coronavirus spreads. It said the draft recommendation was posted in error on Friday. Commenting on the sudden reversal, Mokdad said it was confusing and that people may lose trust if the messaging is not consistent and made without explaining why the change was made. Potentially there will be another , deaths between now and January, so we have to be very careful, since we are moving indoors, because cold weather is coming, he said. Its better to make sure that we are on the conservative side with our recommendations in that regard. In its update to global COVID mortality projections last week, UWs Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation IHME predicted that cumulative deaths by Jan  would hit ,. The institute cited steeper than expected declines in several states as the factors for lowering its estimate of , deaths by years end that it had predicted on Sept . But it cautioned deaths could surge to more than , per day by the end of December. So far we have been underestimating by a little bit the mortality for several reasons. We assumed that when a state reaches eight deaths per day per million, they will go to a lockdown, Mokdad said. Unfortunately, we underestimate because we assume that states will do something, and states sometimes dont do that. The IHME said that increasing mask use to  percent could save nearly , lives, reducing the expected number of deaths by . percent. Mokdad, a UW professor of health metrics, said that in the US, every state decided to do something different. CDC China had a very consistent message and told people exactly what they need to do. Sometimes when people didnt wear a mask, there was enforcement, he said. We know in the United States when you recommend something and you dont enforce it, sometimes it doesnt work. He added that the US could have done better by locking down earlier and making sure we stay locked down until we control the virus, then open up. US President Donald Trump, who previously admitted to playing down the risk of the virus early on because he did not want to create a panic, continued to say the US would soon see a light at the end of the tunnel. We are rounding the corner on the pandemic, with or without a vaccine ... and weve done a phenomenal job  not just a good job  a phenomenal job, Trump said Monday. He made similar remarks at a rally Saturday night, claiming that the country was emerging from COVID even without a vaccine. Asked to comment on the presidents rally remarks, Scott Gottlieb, a former Food and Drug Administration commissioner, said that the US could expect at least one more cycle with this virus heading into the fall and winter. If you look at whats happening around the country right now, theres an unmistakable spike in new infections, Gottlieb said Sunday on CBS Face the Nation. Theres about  states with a positivity rate of  percent or higher, which is deeply concerning. Theres about  states where the Rt  the rate of transfer  is above , meaning they have an expanding epidemic, he said. The situation in the country has prompted serious reckoning from academics. Charles Silver, a law professor at the University of Texas at Austin, and David A. Hyman, a law professor at Georgetown, said the pandemic was the third great crisis of the st century and it has already inflicted a greater toll in lives lost and economic hardship than  and the  financial collapse combined. The federal government was not ready for COVID, even though it has dealt with epidemics and pandemics for more than a century, they said in a report titled COVID A Case Study of Government Failure, which was posted last week on the website of the Cato Institute, a Washingtonbased libertarian think tank. The downplaying of the coronavirus, as well as opposition to mask wearing and other precautions, has had real consequences for health and safety, noted Jonathan Rothwell, a nonresident senior fellow with the Brookings Institution, and Christos Makridis, a research professor at Arizona State University. But the polarization of the pandemic has had another unfortunate side effect Exacerbating economic harm, they wrote in an analysis titled Politics is wrecking Americas pandemic response.