Chinese eat healthier, exercise more over health concerns
2020/9/22 22:27
Hong Kong Chief Executive Carrie Lam Cheng Yuetngor holds a press conference at Central Government Offices on Sept , . PHOTO BY PARKER ZHENG  CHINA DAILY HONG KONG  Hong Kong will extend virusrelated social distancing measures for another week amid persisting signs of hidden COVID transmission, Chief Executive Carrie Lam Cheng Yuetngor said, as the city reported eight new infections on Tuesday. Despite moderating numbers, we still have unknown cases and it implies that there is silent transmission chain in our community, Lam said at a weekly briefing on Tuesday before a meeting of her advisory Executive Council. Bars, pools and theme parks were allowed to reopen last Friday. Bars were allowed to remain open until midnight, and dinein services at restaurants were extended by two hours, also until  am. The limit on public gatherings will be kept at four people. The restrictions are now due to expire on Oct . The general public and operators of leisure venues that have reopened should not lower their guard, especially when Hong Kong schools will resume facetoface classes on Wednesday, Lam said. From Sept  to , the city recorded  new COVID infections, seven of which were of unknown origin, the CE said, citing health data. Of the fresh infections recorded in the past week, two thirds were imported. Lam said health authorities will soon announce details of further extension of social distancing measures. Lam gave the reminder as the Centre for Health Protection CHP reported eight new coronavirus cases, including five imported cases from India and three local cases linked to previous patients. This brought the citys tally of confirmed cases to ,. The three local cases included a yearold woman who lived in Tuen Mun, a yearold girl in Wong Tai Sin and a yearold woman in Hung Hom, the CHP said. An employee top wearing a mask, face shield and gloves gives a customer bottom a massage at a bathhouse in Hong Kong on September , .? Tuesday marked the second consecutive day that the city registered a singledigit increase after it saw a high of  infections, mostly imported, on Sunday. According to Hong Kongs Hospital Authority,  patients are still being treated in hospitals, including  in critical condition. The number of deaths related to COVID stood at . Also on Tuesday, Hong Kong Disneyland said it will reopen starting Friday to a reduced number of visitors and with limited days and enhanced health measures, after a shutdown of two months due to the third wave of the epidemic in the city. With inputs from Agencies