Iconic tourist hotspot given an injection of youth
2020/9/21 14:49
Residents wearing face masks wait in to take COVID tests in Cheung Sha Wan, Hong Kong, Sept , . Photo by PARKER ZHENGCHINA DAILY Hong Kongs civil service chief on Thursday said it was encouraging to see nearly . million Hong Kong residents participate in the citys twoweek free and voluntary mass COVID testing  a program that is assisting in preparations for the expected next round of the pandemic. Secretary for the Civil Service Patrick Nip Takkuen, who oversaw the organization of the territorywide COVID testing program, told China Daily that the money was wellspent as it enabled the government to get a moreaccurate grasp of the pandemic by identifying asymptomatic virus carriers and thereby sever transmission chains. The Universal Community Testing Programme, which ended on Monday, detected  confirmed infections, including  asymptomatic patients. About , local medical workers and around  medical experts sent by the central government from the Chinese mainland worked in the program. Nip said he is pleased the program enhanced Hong Kongs testing capabilities. This is important as negative test results are essential in order for outbound travel and economic activities to resume. The policy objective of the UCTP was achieved, Nip told China Daily in an exclusive interview. Many residents wanted to have COVID tests, but the fee charged by the private sector was so high and far beyond their ability to pay. So this testing program, which was free of charge, provided them the opportunity to get testing and made them feel comfortable after being tested. He said he is satisfied that  percent of the residents who signed up online showed up for their scheduled tests, but many people walked in without using online registration, which was intended to shorten the lines at the testing centers. It is humane and peopleoriented to admit residents without prior registration. There were people coming for tests without registration on the first day. As long as the testing centers could handle it, they would admit the walkins. In fact, many elderly do not know how to use the internet, and nobody helps elderly people who live alone. For the last three days, the number of walkin participants accounted for  percent of the total people receiving the tests, he said. As for the cost of the program, the central government will foot the bill for the mainland medical professionals and the laboratory fees. The Hong Kong Special Administrative Region government will pay about HK million US. million, which will cover the expense of setting up the test centers, the wages of the medical professionals, and the cost of medicine. As divided by the . million participants, the average cost is about HK per head. This is far cheaper than that charged by the private sector. In fact, the private sector does not have the capability to conduct so many tests. After this testing program, the demand for COVID tests is higher, but the fee charged by private labs will definitely go down, he said. Nip disagrees with those who calculated the costeffectiveness by dividing the HK million cost by the number of confirmed patients that the testing program found. It is illogical to calculate the costeffectiveness this way because the testing program is not all about the confirmed patients but involving all participants, he said. He added that the testing program is instrumental in enabling the government to tackle the third wave of COVID, to prepare for the next wave, and therefore the money was wellspent. Confirmed patients of different age groups and occupations have been detected, yet some are asymptomatic, showing that the pandemic has spread deep into the local community as some of them were previously unidentified and were detected only because of the testing program. The testing program has yielded positive social effects apart from the number of patients detected, Nip said. Society is actively engaged, with the dedicated participation of healthcare workers, civil servants, the public and private sectors to fight the virus together, he said. Nip said he has noticed antigovernment politicians and some healthcare workers had smeared the UCTP and created panic by badmouthing the program as useless and a means of virus transmission, and by falsely claiming that the testees DNA would be sent to the mainland. The government is highly encouraged that . million people took the test, he said. At first, some people poured cold water on the idea, saying it would be a failure if less than  million people participated. Some residents had worries after hearing rumors. But after the government quickly refuted the inaccurate news, people felt more assured and were very eager to take the tests, with many residents coming with their family members and children.