Culinary marvels
2020/9/21 9:15
Naomi Osaka.  Womens tennis is very fortunate to have US Open champion Naomi Osaka as its new figurehead, according to one of the sports greatest trailblazers, Billie Jean King. Not only did the yearold Japanese player win a second title at Flushing Meadows last week, she also became a champion for equality, taking a lead in highlighting racial injustice. The yearold King likens Osakas offcourt stance to that of the Original , a group of players led by King who fought tirelessly to start a professional womens tennis tour, which in turn led to the creation of the WTA in . She is already huge on and off the court. She is very humble and really looks at you when you talk to her and takes in the information and comes up with an authentic response, King said of Osaka, whose mother is Japanese and father Haitian. In many ways Naomi is a product of the Original . Think about that, she is what we fought for. That if youre good enough you will have a place to compete, wherever you are from. Naomi is a product of our wishes and dreams. Osaka instigated a oneday shutdown of the Western and Southern Open the week before the US Open, pulling out of her semifinal in protest at the police shooting of Jacob Blake, a black man, in the city of Kenosha, Wisconsin. Before each of her seven matches at the US Open she wore face masks printed with the names of black Americans who have suffered racial injustice. Already a sporting icon, Osakas fight for equality has focused even more attention on her, but King believes she can shoulder the responsibility of being a voice for tennis. She seems to be able to compartmentalize things and she cares deeply about what is happening around her and that will keep her focused, King told Reuters ahead of the renaming of the Fed Cup in her honor last week. She is fantastic for the sport. But dont forget Serena and Venus Williams also spoke out and continue to speak out for women of color and Venus fought for equal prize money. People forget because they go on to the new one. But Naomi is really special and I really think she will be an amazing leader through the years because she cares. We are very fortunate to have her in our sport. King has long wanted the WTA and mens ATP Tour to combine to create one body, and has watched recent developments in which world No  Novak Djokovic has formed a breakaway players union with interest. She believes the sports various organizations should unite. Ive always been a teams person, King said. I think together we are stronger. My wish will always be that we are one association. Im not sure about the Djokovic split. Im not sure its going to happen. But I just hope the ATP and WTA get together. It would be great. This could drive it, I dont know. Reuters