Letter points to nations strong ties with ASEAN
2021/9/10 20:01
The Beijing Ronald McDonald House was officially opened on Sept . Photo provided to chinadaily.com.cn The Beijing Ronald McDonald House  which will provide free accommodation and other care services to children in need and their family members visiting the Beijing Children Hospital from various parts of China for medical treatment  was officially opened on Sept . It is hoped that the facility can help by keeping families close during what is often a trying time. The Beijing Ronald McDonald House, which is funded by Ronald McDonald House Charities of the China Soong Ching Ling Foundation, is part of a partnership with the Beijing Childrens Hospital, a nationallevel hospital for children in China. It is the third Ronald McDonald House to be established in the Chinese mainland. The Beijing Ronald McDonald House is located just across the street from the hospital. The facility has a total builtup area of about  square meters with  rooms for families. Young patients seeking medical attention at the hospital and who are in need of accommodation may apply to the Ronald McDonald House for consideration. Each family room is equipped with an ensuite bathroom, a motherandchild bed, and a desk. Within each Ronald McDonald House, theres also kitchen, laundry, leisure, and dining facilities for the use of resident families. Chair lifts have also been installed for the convenience of resident patients. The interior design of the Beijing Ronald McDonald House. Photo provided to chinadaily.com.cn The Ronald McDonald House in Beijing, designed in traditional Chinesestyle, is decorated with auspicious decorations such as lanterns, opera mask hangings, and pictures of the four seasons to create a comfortable and peaceful living environment for patients and their family members. It is also a green Ronald McDonald House, for the facility has been granted LEED Gold certification. Since , McDonalds China has supported the Ronald McDonald House program through the fund, as well as contributed substantial amounts of manpower and material support to the various program locations. The first Ronald McDonald House in the Chinese mainland opened in the city of Changsha in , and in , the second Ronald McDonald House was successfully launched in Shanghai. In the future, the China Soong Ching Ling Foundation will continue to aid the development of the Ronald McDonald House program and work together with McDonalds China to promote the development of childrens health and welfare in China.