Ax to fall on taxfree sales
2020/9/21 0:00
Movie theaters in China will raise their seatingcapacity cap from the current  percent to  percent of maximum capacity as a mark of further recovery of the worlds secondlargest boxoffice market amid the COVID pandemic. The new cap will take effect on Sept , according to the latest version of a guideline for movie theaters to resume business while putting in place epidemiccontrol measures issued by the China Film Distribution and Exhibition Association on Sept . The move comes as Chinas boxoffice revenue hit  billion yuan over  million by Sept , since theaters reopened on July  after being closed for months due to COVID. It has been hailed as a boost for the upcoming National Day holiday boxoffice market. The sevenday National Day holiday starting from Oct  proved a lucrative season last year, contributing  billion yuan to Chinas annual box office, which exceeded  billion yuan. On the long list of movies set to hit theaters during the holiday this year are the Chinese comedy, My People, My Homeland, and the longawaited animated film, Legend of Deification. Much like the blockbuster My People, My Country that debuted on Oct , , the upcoming My People, My Homeland has adopted collective creationone film contains multiple stories by different directors. My People, My Homeland comprises five stories. Zhang Yimou, one of Chinas bestknown filmmakers, serves as the producer, and veteran Ning Hao is the general director. Legend of Deification, a feature from the companies behind last years China boxoffice champion, Ne Zha, which grossed over  billion yuan in China, tells the story of mythological figure Jiang Ziya. Jiang Ziya is a genius strategist from the novel Fengshen Yanyi The Investiture of the Gods, a Ming Dynasty  book that inspired Ne Zha, the Chinese film about its eponymous hero. The guideline released on Tuesday also says that the attendance cap for a region is subject to adjustment by provinciallevel film authorities under the guidance of local epidemic prevention and control departments. Moviegoers will have their temperatures taken before entering theaters and those without masks or with body temperatures higher than . C wont be allowed in, the document says. All tickets must be booked online with real names and sold without contact. Xinhua