A new look for a new era
2020/9/18 9:21
The opening of the extension of the pedestrian street of the countrys top commercial street, Nanjing Road, attracts a crowd of visitors.?Photo by Gao ErqiangChina Daily Nanjing Road, Shanghais most famous shopping street, gets an injection of vitality and glamour, Xing Yi reports. In , American missionary and educator Francis Lister Hawks Pott wrote At night they were illuminated by thousands of electric lights, and helped make the upper part of Nanking Road a great white way ... They mark both the gradual process of the modernization of China and the growing prosperity of Shanghai. The dazzling night scene of the countrys top commercial street, Nanjing Road, that Pott described in his book, A Short History of Shanghai, has not changed after a century, except for becoming much brighter and longer. The renowned shopping street, which runs west to east from Peoples Square in the city center to the Bund along the Huangpu River, officially opened its eastern section on Sept  after a ninemonth renovation project. The renovation converted the meter stretch from a regular road into a pedestrian street, connecting its existing kilometer pedestrian mall on the west of its intersection with Middle Henan Road. The renovation was the biggest upgrade of the road in the past two decades. Qiao Zhengyue, a columnist of the citys historical architecture and the author of a bilingual book, Shanghai Nanjing Road, which was published in August, attended the grand opening of the extension of the pedestrian street, which also marked the start of this years Shanghai Tourism Festival that runs through the end of this month. A night scene of the newly opened eastern section of Nanjing Road. Photo by Jean YuanFor China Daily A new era of Nanjing Road starts from tonight, she said on the opening day. Its crowded yet exciting. Young and old, locals and tourists speaking different dialects, have all come to enjoy the road. Qiao has been closely studying the history and development of the road for her book since . During the golden age in Shanghais modern history from the s to s, Nanjing Road was a symbol of the prosperous international metropolis in the Far East, just like the Fifth Avenue of New York, she says. After the founding of the Peoples Republic of China, the road was home to many big Stateowned department stores, and people came to buy food and clothes that could not be found anywhere else. But with new shopping malls emerging in the city in recent years, the road has gradually lost its appeal as those from the younger generation have turned to trendier malls. The eastern section soon became disorganized and filled with stores selling campy souvenirs for tourists. The local government also realized that the road cannot continue going this way and that the historical buildings need a rebirth, Qiao says. A series of urbanrenewal projects took place on the road in the past few years, and many initiatives were launched to upgrade the business and make the road appealing to young people again. In , the Shanghai New World Co Ltd and Japanese Daimaru Matsuzakaya Department Stores jointly opened the Shanghai New World Daimaru shopping mall on the eastern part of the road. The new mall houses a range of premium brands such as Gucci, Burberry and Tiffany Co. The eastern section of Nanjing Road reopens after a ninemonth renovation project. Photo by Gao ErqiangChina Daily In , The Historical Central Store, Midland Building, Erza Building and Overseas Chinese Building formed a new business complex called The Central, featuring stores including Nike, New Balance and Skechers. In , boutique hotel Edition opened in the artdeco former headquarters of Shanghai Power Company. In June, the biggest flagship store of Huawei replaced the clothes retailer Forever  in the Hardoon Building. The first store of popular Korean emoji character Kakao Friends in the city made its debut on the new eastern stretch of Nanjing Road after putting up a successful popup store on the western end of the street last year. Many old brands on Nanjing Road have also launched new businesses. The Sanyang Food Store turned itself into a cafe. Shao Wan Sheng, which specialized in alcoholpreserved food, added imported alcohol and Spanish ham to its product line. Shanghai Laodatong Rice Shop developed a series of products featuring rice as a major ingredientrice ice cream, rice drinks and even rice facial masks. Taikang Foods opened a new branch with a trendy beverage chain, Sweet , offering bubble milk tea and mango drinks. A week before the opening of the eastern extension of the road, the management company of the pedestrian street brought a large popup theme park by Bilibili, a popular videosharing website that features animation, comics and games. The eastern section of Nanjing Road reopens after a ninemonth renovation project.Photo by Gao ErqiangChina Daily Ye Yifan, general manager of the company, says it wants to attract more young people to the street, and make them feel that Nanjing Road is most Shanghai, most international and most fashionable. Kang Rong, a tourist from Shaanxi province, explored the entire Nanjing Road with her friend on Sunday. I visited the street three years ago and I found that it has changed quite a lot, she says. It became more modern and highend as smaller stores were replaced by big brands. George Wee, general manager of Fairmont Peace, which operates the citys landmark Peace Hotel on the eastern end of the road, says about the new extensionI think its great for the city. The openness of space and this connection with the Bund is absolutely perfectthis has injected even more energy and buzz. I see this new pedestrian walkway making Nanjing Road even better than New Yorks Fifth Avenue and Times Square combined.