Creative products give murals of ancient grottoes a modern spin
2020/9/18 0:00
Foreign investment maintained steady growth in Shanghai in the first half of , reflecting the confidence of foreign investors in the resilience of the Chinese market amid the global economic slowdown due to the COVID pandemic. According to statistics from the Shanghai government, the city received . billion in foreign investment in the first six months of , an increase of . percent based on the same period in . As of June , the city is home to  regional headquarters of multinational companies, up by  from last year. The total number of foreigninvested research and development centers is now , an increase of  from . A total of  foreign investment projects with a combined contracted value of  billion were inked in Shanghai on July , among which  are related to new infrastructure construction, artificial intelligence, internet technology, pharmaceuticals and integrated circuits. According to Xu Kunlin, vicemayor of Shanghai, the slew of projects signals companies determination and confidence in China and in Shanghai. The city has a complete set of infrastructure, an environment that respects the rule of law, and an efficient government, on top of a multitude of talents, all of which are integral to a companys growth and development, said Philippe Snel, China representative of PRD Group. Fengxian online Aiming for more foreign investors, the Shanghai government and all lowerlevel governments in the city have made great efforts in supporting them in the first half of . Fengxian district, a traditional manufacturing hub in Shanghai, has paid great attention to organizing online promotions to keep global investors in contact amid the pandemic, district officials said. We hosted  online promotions in the first half of  and attracted an audience of about . million, said Gu Weixing, director of the investment promotion office of Fengxian and the Oriental Beauty Valley industry promotion office. More than , foreign investors information has been collected from those online events. A WeChat platform, named Invest Fengxian Cloud, which allows potential investors to obtain detailed information about parcels of land including total area, location, rental and function, began operation in November. There are staff members to answer investors inquiries and provide them with investment information, according to Shao Xudong, deputy director of the investment promotion office of Fengxian. We are constructing a Taobaolike platform so investors can select sites in Fengxian online, Shao said. Compared to other districts, Fengxian has not always had highprofile projects, but we will spare no effort to strengthen communication and settle new projects in the region, Gu said. Oriental Beauty Valley In recent years, Fengxian has paid much attention to developing its beauty and health industry and initiated the Oriental Beauty Valley construction project in  to support economic upgrading and transformation. According to Gu, the Oriental Beauty Valley, or OBV, is different from traditional industrial parks and economic development zones which are comprised of new buildings and factories in a designated area. The Oriental Beauty Valley is a concept to cover the whole area of Fengxian and will take the beauty and health industry as the core, and it is a beauty and health alliance with multiple industries, Gu said. Fengxian wants to create a beauty and health industrial cluster that covers all related industries such as skincare products, perfumes, daily consumer chemicals, biomedicine, food and healthcare products. Construction on the OBV has recorded significant breakthroughs. As of the end of , it was home to  largescale enterprises, which each have an annual operating income of  million yuan . million. Beauty products under more than , brands, including Nu Skin and Cosmax, are produced in the valley. About  percent of all facial masks used in China are produced in the OBV. In March, cosmetics company Shiseido announced the setup of a research facility in the valley to drive innovation. The Shiseido site will focus on environmental and sustainabilityrelated research and share resources with partners in the valley. Wuxi Apptecs new site in Fengxian, covering . hectares, has been completed. The site will provide research and development services to global businesses. A space, specially designed for the Institute Pasteur of Shanghai under the Chinese Academy of Sciences, is ready to debut. For companies, Fengxian is one of the few places in Shanghai that have irreplaceable offerings, according to local authorities. They are the gathering of key industry players, premium government service, strong policy support for businesses and talent, welldeveloped facilities and infrastructures, and it is part of the Lingang Special Area of the China Shanghai Pilot Free Trade Zone. Brands can quickly settle down, implement their plans and turn dreams into reality in Fengxian because the valley has all the resources they neededfrom RD to market, said Yuan Fei, general manager of the OBV Group. The group is responsible for the valleys development, management and investment promotion. The annual Oriental Beauty Valley International Cosmetics Conference is also making Fengxian known to the world. First held in , the conference has become one of the most important beauty industrial gatherings in China. The  event attracted representatives from  global cosmetic groups, including LOreal, Estee Lauder and Shiseido. Bright future It is estimated that by , the overall industrial output value of the OBV will reach  billion yuan, almost double its current figure. Fengxian will have a complete beauty and health industrial chain that covers design, RD, smart manufacturing, quarantine and testing, exhibitions and trade. It will be one of the largest beauty and health industry clusters in Asia, with all companies owning independent intellectual property rights, according to the district government. Apart from the health and beauty industry, Fengxian is encouraging development in biomedicine, advanced manufacturing, new energy vehicles and emerging industries. Currently, the district boasts more than  biopharmaceutical enterprises and  automobile parts suppliers. So far, Fengxian boasts about  square kilometers of industrial land, which can serve different needs of companies, according to the local government. tangzhihaochinadaily.com.cn ? A birdseye view of the core area of the Oriental Beauty Valley of Fengxian. CHINA DAILY ? ? The government service center of Fengxian. CHINA DAILY ? ? The annual Oriental Beauty Valley International Cosmetics Conference is one of the most important gatherings in the beauty industry in China. CHINA DAILY ? ? The central business district in the Nanqiao New Area of Fengxian. CHINA DAILY ? ? A night view of Fengxians Jinhai Lake. CHINA DAILY ? ? Scan to read more about Shanghais investment opportunities ? ?