At European culture exhibit, all routes lead to home
2020/9/18 0:00
US President Donald Trump on Wednesday told fellow Republicans in Congress to go for the much higher numbers in negotiations for another economic recovery package, which is contrary to what they have been seeking. That probably needs to get translated for us, Senator John Thune of South Dakota, the No  Republican in the chamber, said when told of Trumps tweet calling for greater financial support, which he suggested didnt reflect the political reality in the Senate. A group of centrist legislators has proposed . trillion in spendingfar above the Republicans proposed skinny stimulus bill, but below the Democratic Partys offer of around . trillion. Trump told reporters that he was largely in favor of that level, pending more negotiations. In July, some Republicans had proposed a package of around  trillion. Democratic leaders in Congress jumped on Trumps tweet. We are encouraged that after months of the Senate Republicans insisting on shortchanging the massive needs of the American people, President Donald Trump is now calling on Republicans to go for the much higher numbers in the next coronavirus relief package, House of Representatives Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer said in a joint statement. On the health front, a federal government plan released on Wednesday by the federal government will provide COVID vaccines for free to everyone in the US, once approval is given by the US Food and Drug Administration. Federal health agencies and the Defense Department gave a vaccination plan to Congress and an accompanying playbook for states from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, or CDC. Limited supply There could be several vaccines from different manufacturers approved and available. There may be a limited supply of vaccines available initially, and the focus of the first phase of vaccinations will be on protecting health workers, other essential employees, and people in vulnerable groups. The director of the CDC, Doctor Robert Redfield, said on Wednesday at a Senate hearing that a vaccine would be available in very limited supply sometime between November and December. But for the general public, he said a vaccine wouldnt be available probably until the middle or third quarter of . Trump said at a town hall event with ABC News on Tuesday that a vaccine could be ready within three weeks, four weeks. Redfield said that the government doesnt have the estimated  billion it needs for the distribution of the vaccine. Funds were proposed in pandemicrelief legislation that Congress hasnt adopted. Providing that money, Redfield said, is as urgent as getting the manufacturing facilities up. Redfield speculated that masks may be even more effective than a vaccine, particularly for people who dont respond to a vaccine. But at an evening news conference at the White House, Trump said that a vaccine is much more effective than the mask and that Redfield may have misunderstood the question about vaccine availability. aihepingchinadailyusa.com ? Robert Redfield, director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, holds up a vaccination program during a hearing on Capitol Hill, Washington, on Wednesday. ANDREW HARNIKREUTERS ? ?