Stocks slide to month low on tech stocks plunge, rising US interest rates
2020/9/17 7:49
ZHONG JINYEFOR CHINA DAILY The Extraordinary ChinaAfrica Summit on Solidarity Against COVID, cochaired by President Xi Jinping and held via video link in June, injected new dynamism into SinoAfrican friendship and cooperation in the fight against the novel coronavirus pandemic. China and Africa have been working together to expeditiously implement the outcomes of the meeting, with China having delivered more than  tons of critically needed medical supplies to  African countries and the African Union, and dispatching public health experts to  African countries. A total of  African countries have signed medical supply procurement deals worth  million. Moreover, the Chinese government and the African Union Commission had already signed an agreement in July for constructing the headquarters building of the Africa Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in Addis Ababa, capital of Ethiopia. As for SinoAfrican economic cooperation, it has not stopped despite the pandemic. More than , Chinese projects in Africa continued operations and a large number of Chinese workers and technicians have remained on their posts, with over , employees of Chinese companies returning recently to work in  African countries through commercial and chartered flights. We are happy to see the increase in freight on the MombasaNairobi Railway and the Addis AbabaDjibouti Railway, both built and operated by Chinese enterprises, and it playing a more important role in transportation of medical supplies. SinoAfrican trade, too, has been growing steadily with the trade volume in the first half of the year exceeding  billion and Chinese investment in Africa increasing . percent yearonyear in spite of the global economic downturn, demonstrating the vitality of ChinaAfrica cooperation. This year marks the th anniversary of the establishment of the Forum on ChinaAfrica Cooperation, and with next years FOCAC conference, SinoAfrican cooperation will enter a new stage which needs certain special focuses. First, to promote the building of a ChinaAfrica health community for all, it is imperative to strengthen COVID vaccine cooperation. When it comes to vaccine research and development, China accords the highest priority to safety and effectiveness, and strictly abides by international laws and norms. Four vaccines developed by China have been approved for clinical trial overseas, leading the world in both quantity and progress. And some countries have expressed their willingness to purchase the Chinese vaccine, and China has already begun the process of vaccine cooperation with African countries. As President Xi said, once the development and deployment of the COVID vaccine is completed in China, African countries will be among the first to benefit from it. China is willing to deepen cooperation in vaccine research with African countries, but actual cooperation also depends on the willingness of African countries. And we will fully respect the decision of our African friends. Second, China needs to inject more vitality into African economies to help safeguard peoples livelihoods. In fact, Beijing has decided to encourage more Chinese businesses in African countries to restart work and, based on the actual pandemic situation, make efforts to resume more flights between China and Africa, so as to normalize peopletopeople exchanges and cooperation. China has reached a consensus with the AU on the Belt and Road Initiative cooperation plan, and will continue to explore more synergy between the initiative and the AUs Agenda  for the continent. Later this year, China will also hold the third China International Import Expo in Shanghai and the second ChinaAfrica Business Expo in Hunan province. African countries are warmly welcomed to participate in these events and contribute to the revitalization of SinoAfrican trade and investment. Third, China also needs to encourage investment in Africa to promote local growth. Due to the threat posed by the pandemic, more Chinese businesses have established plans to manufacture face masks and virus testing kits in some African countries, in a bid to extend the health industry chain in Africa and promote local production of antipandemic medical supplies. In fact, China is willing to further encourage Chinese businesses to invest in Africas industrialization projects including those under publicprivate partnership. We also hope Chinese businesses will increase localized production to promote African brands. China and African countries can fully leverage their comparative advantages, and jointly build more industrial parks and special economic zones in Africa, thus transforming the potential of ChinaAfrica infrastructure cooperation into winwin outcomes. Fourth, SinoAfrican cooperation projects need to blaze new trails. During the past few years, Africa has developed on several fronts, from trade as seen in the Continental Free Trade Area to the digital economy and clean energy. China welcomes the handover of the AfCFTA secretariat building and is ready to discuss with African countries cooperation in free trade in order to boost trade facilitation and African products export to China. Also, China and Africa need to deepen cooperation in digital economy, including ecommerce and G technology. Besides, China attaches great importance to African countries concerns about climate change, and is willing to strengthen dialogue and work together with Africa to mitigate the impact of climate change. It is also willing to work with African countries to help contain the novel coronavirus, improving the prevention and control measures, so as to ensure the maximum number of people benefit from the efforts. The author is the directorgeneral of the African Affairs Department at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The author contributed this article to China Watch, a think tank powered by China Daily. The views do not necessarily reflect those of China Daily.