Postpandemic travel pokes its head through clouds
2020/9/17 1:02
FILE PHOTO A man walks near Nasdaq MarketSite in an empty Times Square as the coronavirus disease COVID outbreak continues in New York City, US, March , . REUTERSEduardo MunozFile Photo New York City, ravaged by the COVID pandemic, reduced the spread of the novel coronavirus by  percent with voluntary and mandated stayathome measures and school closures in the spring and could have cut the rate even further with more consistency in maskwearing, according to a new study. If everyone in the city modeled their maskwearing behavior on older adults, overall transmission could have been reduced by as much as  percent more, researchers wrote in the forthcoming study by Columbia Universitys Mailman School of Public Health and the New York City Department of Health and Mental Hygiene. A preview of the study, which has not yet been peerreviewed, was posted online Monday. The city recorded more than , confirmed coronavirus cases and more than , confirmed or probable deaths during the first three months of the pandemic. The study is in line with previous modeling studies estimating that lockdowns reduced coronavirus transmission by  percent in the Chinese city of Wuhan,  percent in Italy and  percent in France. COVID is killing ethnic minority children at much higher numbers than their white peers, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention CDC said Tuesday. Of those under  who died of COVID, the illness caused by the coronavirus, more than  percent have been Hispanic, black or American Indian, even though they represent  percent of the US population, according to the CDC, which collected data from health departments throughout the country. The most comprehensive accounting to date of pediatric infections and fatalities in the US also shows there have been , known cases and  deaths among people under the age of  from February to July. Previously unpublished data from the CDC show an average of  patients a day became infected with the coronavirus inside half of US hospitals as the pandemic ebbed from its spring peak and rebounded into the summer, The Wall Street Journal reported Tuesday. During the roughly nine weeks the CDC collected the data, more than , patients likely caught the coronavirus in hospitals where they sought care for other conditions, reported the Journal, which said the CDC gave it the data. The numbers are from pandemic data reported by half of US hospitals to the CDC between May  and July . During the same period, hospitals cared for a daily average of , COVID patients, the data shows. The CDC provided the numbers to the Journal, which the newspaper said show how hospitals nationwide handled infection control while adapting to the virus and managing shortages of equipment used to protect healthcare workers, who can inadvertently transmit the virus between patients. The CDC data didnt track infections among hospital staff. Data after that date is unavailable because the government stopped asking for it as part of sweeping changes to its datacollection system. The number of Americans without health coverage continued to grow last year, even before the arrival of the coronavirus, new federal data show. Nearly  million Americans went without health coverage at some point in , up by roughly  million from the previous year, according to new US Census Bureau data. The figures show continued losses in health insurance under the Trump administration, slightly eroding coverage gains made following passage a decade ago of the Affordable Care Act, which is also known as Obamacare.