Global robot tech achievements on show in Beijing
2021/9/10 9:04
US President Joe Biden delivers remarks on the Delta variant and his administrations efforts to increase vaccinations, from the State Dining Room of the White House in Washington, September , .  President Joe Biden on Thursday announced new federal vaccine requirements affecting as many as  million Americans in the most expansive effort by the administration to increase COVID vaccinations and curb the surging Delta variant. Addressing the nation from the White House, Biden pointedly criticized the unvaccinated minority, roughly  million Americans he said who havent been vaccinated despite months of availability and incentives. Weve been patient. But our patience is wearing thin, and your refusal has cost all of us, he said. The unvaccinated minority can cause a lot of damage, and they are. Biden said were going to reduce the spread of COVID by increasing the share of the workforce that is vaccinated in businesses all across America. We are in the tough stretch, and it could last for a while, Biden said of the current state of the pandemic. We can and we will turn the tide on COVID. Biden announced the new requirements as polls show doubts among the public over his handling of the pandemic. A new rule announced by Biden will mandate that all employers who have more than  workers must require them to be vaccinated or test for the virus weekly, affecting about  million Americans. The rule also would require that large companies provide paid time off for vaccination. The White House didnt immediately say when it would take effect but said workers would have sufficient time to get vaccinated. Bidens announcement generated stern opposition from Republicans online, with a common thread questioning the constitutionality of the mandates. My legal team is standing by ready to file our lawsuit the minute joebiden files his unconstitutional rule, South Carolina Governor Kristi Noem wrote on Twitter. This gross example of federal intrusion will not stand. The US Constitution does not give the president this type of authority, said Representative Robert Aderholt of Alabama. Nowhere in Article  of the Constitution will you find anything that even remotely gives the president this kind of power. Roughly  million workers at healthcare facilities that receive federal Medicare or Medicaid also will have to be fully vaccinated. The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services will extend a vaccination requirement issued earlier this summer  for nursing home staff  to other healthcare settings including hospitals, homehealth agencies and dialysis centers. Biden said he is also signing an executive order to require vaccination for employees of the executive branch and contractors who do business with the federal government, with no option to test out. That covers several million more workers. He also announced a doubling of federal fines for airline passengers who refuse to wear masks on flights or to maintain facecovering requirements on federal property in accordance with Centers for Disease Control and Prevention CDC guidelines. He said the federal government will work to increase the supply of virus tests and that the White House has secured concessions from some retailers to sell athome testing kits at cost beginning this week. Bidens order for executive branch workers and contractors includes exceptions for workers seeking religious or medical exemptions from vaccination. Federal workers and contractors will have  days to get fully vaccinated. Workers who dont comply will be referred to their agencies human resources departments for counseling and discipline, to include potential termination. Bidens measures should help, but whats really needed is a change in mindset for many people, said Dr Joshua Sharfstein, vicedean at the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health in Baltimore. There is an aspect to this now that has to do with our country being so divided, he told The Associated Press. This has become so politicized that people cant see the value of a vaccination that can save their lives. Our own divisions are preventing us from ending a pandemic. Representative Greg Murphy, a North Carolina Republican and practicing physician, told Fox News As I have repeatedly said, the decision about whether or not to take the COVID vaccine, like every other medical decision, is one that should be made between a patient and a doctor. An APNORC poll conducted in August found  percent of Americans in favor of requiring government workers to be fully vaccinated, compared with  percent opposed. Similar majorities also backed vaccine mandates for healthcare workers, teachers working at K schools and workers who interact with the public, as at restaurants and stores.