Air carriers anticipating holiday rush
2020/9/17 0:00
New York City, ravaged months ago by the COVID pandemic, reduced the spread of the coronavirus by  percent with voluntary and mandated stayathome measures, according to a study. And school closures in the spring could have cut the rate even further with more consistency in maskwearing. If everyone in the United States biggest city modeled their maskwearing behavior on older adults, overall transmission could have been reduced by as much as  percent more, researchers wrote in the forthcoming study by Columbia Universitys Mailman School of Public Health and the New York City Department of Health and Mental Hygiene. A preview of the study, which has not yet been peerreviewed, was posted online on Monday. The city recorded more than , coronavirus cases and more than , confirmed or probable deaths during the first three months of the pandemic. The study is in line with previous modeling studies estimating that lockdowns reduced coronavirus transmission by  percent in the Chinese city of Wuhan,  percent in Italy and  percent in France. COVID is killing ethnic minority children at much higher numbers than their white peers, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, or CDC, said on Tuesday. Of those aged under  who died of COVID, the illness caused by the novel coronavirus, more than  percent have been Hispanic, black or Native American, even though they collectively represent only  percent of the US population, according to the CDC, which collected data from health departments throughout the country. The most comprehensive accounting to date of pediatric infections and fatalities in the United States also shows there were , known cases and  deaths among people under the age of  from February to July. Unpublished data Previously unpublished data from the CDC show an average of  patients a day became infected with the coronavirus in half of US hospitals as the pandemic ebbed from its spring peak and rebounded into the summer, The Wall Street Journal reported on Tuesday. During the roughly nine weeks the CDC collected the data, more than , patients likely caught the coronavirus in hospitals where they sought care for other conditions, reported the Journal, which said the CDC gave it the data. The numbers are from pandemic data reported by half of US hospitals to the CDC between May  and July . During the same period, hospitals cared for a daily average of , COVID patients, the data shows. The CDC provided the numbers to the Journal, which the newspaper said show how hospitals nationwide handled infection control while adapting to the virus and managing shortages of equipment used to protect healthcare workers, who can inadvertently transmit the virus between patients. The CDC data didnt track infections among hospital staff. Data after that date is unavailable because the government stopped asking for it as part of sweeping changes to its datacollection system. The number of US citizens without health coverage continued to grow last year, even before the arrival of the coronavirus, new federal data show. Nearly  million people in the US went without health coverage at some point in , up by roughly  million from the previous year, according to the US Census Bureau data. aihepingchinadailyusa.com ? A Metropolitan Transportation Authority employee replaces posters reminding commuters to wear masks in a New York subway car on Monday. MARY ALTAFFERASSOCIATED PRESS ? ?