Customs efforts open windows for exporters
2020/9/16 13:23
Luo JieChina Daily Chinas largest humanitarian operation since the founding of the Peoples Republic of China to fight the COVID outbreak has gained wide acclaim from the international community in an era when the voices of unilateralism and isolationist approach are rising. The assistance provided by China has won millions of hearts and minds as it has helped in saving millions of lives in the face of the deadly virus. The magnitude of Chinese antipandemic cooperation shows that Chinas healthcare system has developed effectively under the visionary system developed by the Communist Party of China under the leadership of President Xi Jinping in recent years. Chinas donation of funds to the World Health Organization totaling  million, sending  medical expert teams to  countries and providing antiepidemic assistance to  nations and four international organizations has been widely praised. Since March , China has exported . billion masks, . billion protective suits,  million goggles and , ventilators to more than  countries and regions to support the global fight against COVID. The Chinese healthcare assistance at such a level reiterates the commitment of China with international community for building a shared future of mankind. China as a responsible member of United Nations Organization and the WHO and is playing a vital role in fighting the virus thats challenging medical science around the globe. Although the first victim of this unknown virus, China did not only develop the medical protocols of testing and identifying the effected people domestically but also shared its experiences with the WHO and the international community rapidly that helped countries to adopt these techniques in tracing COVID victims. The assistance China provided to the international community from its domestic resources during the times when Beijing was itself fighting against the virus shows that the country strongly believes in multilateralism and solid cooperation based on winwin situation. While offering these helpful medical expertise and assistance, China did not attach any precondition to recipient countries starting from the developed ones to developing countries. China did not pursue any specific or hidden agenda behind this largest humanitarian assistance and the intention to help the international community in difficult times shows that the country attaches great importance to every single life in any part of the world for developing the prosperous and healthy society. The great contributions offered by China reflect Chinas commitment with partner countries and shows that China effectively guided the international community in tackling the greatest challenge of the time. It is wellknown that an illogical and baseless campaign was launched by US President Donald Trump to smear China regarding the birth of COVID, but when the world saw the humanitarian assistance of China, the fraudulent campaign failed to gain support from the global community. In the fight against the pandemic China being the largest developing country integrated the basic interests of the Chinese people with the public of other developing countries within the framework of bilateral cooperation suitable to the needs of the recipient nations. For tackling the pandemic and improving the health systems in partner countries, China proactively operated the humanitarian assistance program and played a constructive role in this tough time. Many countries around the globe still face the serious shortage of medical supplies and require urgent healthcare equipment including financial assistance which is being addressed by China as it has shown its sincere commitment to help the countries to get rid of COVID. The whole operation by China generated a message that Beijing rejects the attitude of isolation and unilateralism and will continue to donate to the world for strengthening the multilateralism. It is globally acknowledged that China has been playing an increasingly important role in emergency medical supplies to the international community which reflects the effective preparedness of the socialist system with Chinese characteristics. The cooperation of China with number of countries has also enhanced, strengthen and deepen bilateral cooperation with recipient countries that of course helped Beijing to increase its international stature. Now medical and health services have become a major field where China is directing its foreign aid. The history is recording that China has helped recipient countries improve their medical and health services, raise their disease control and prevention ability and enhance their public health capacity by constructing dedicated hospitals,?dispatching medical teams, training medical workers and conducting exchanges and cooperation on disease prevention and treatment with other developing countries. In short, with the growth of Chinas development, Beijings role in international arena is increasingly becoming important. China has shown its willingness to provide experience and technology with the rest of the world to eradicate COVID, so as to create a health security for the global citizens where no one is left without being addressed. The author is a journalist with Independent News Pakistan, a leading news agency in Pakistan and media fellow of China Asia and Asia Pacific press center. The views dont necessarily reflect those of China Daily. If you have a specific expertise and would like to contribute to China Daily, please contact us at opinionchinadaily.com.cn, and commentchinadaily.com.cn ?