Services negative list gives China edge
2020/9/16 9:55
File photo of?Novak Djokovic.? Serbian says hes learned big lesson from costly US Open temper tantrum ROMENovak Djokovic learned a big lesson after being disqualified from the US Open for unintentionally hitting a line judge in the throat with a ball. The incident nine days ago marked a stunning end to Djokovics match winning streak and his bid for an th Grand Slam title. Im working mentally and emotionally as hard as I am working physically, Djokovic said Monday at the Italian Open. Im trying to be the best version of myself on the court and off the court and I understand that I have outbursts and this is kind of the personality and the player that I have always been. Im going to take this in as profound as possible for me as a big lesson. Ive been thinking about it. Ive been comprehending. Ive been talking to my team. Its just one of these things that is just unfortunate and happens. You have to move on. The disqualification came during Djokovics fourthround match against Pablo Carreno Busta. As he walked to the Arthur Ashe Stadium sideline for a changeover, trailing Carreno Busta  in the first set, Djokovicwho was seeded and ranked No  and an overwhelming favorite for the championshipangrily smacked a ball behind him. The ball flew right at the line judge, who dropped to her knees at the back of the court and reached for her neck. It was totally unexpected and very unintended as well, Djokovic said. When you hit a ball like that you have a chance to hit somebody that is on the court. The rules are clear. So I accepted it. I had to move on and thats what I did. Of course I did not forget about it, Djokovic added. I dont think Ill ever forget about it, because its one of those things that stays in your memory for the rest of your life. But I dont think Ill have any major issues coming back to the tour and being able to perform well and hit the tennis ball. Djokovic said he checked with the lineswoman after the incident and was told she was not seriously injured. I felt really sorry to cause the shock and drama to her, because she didnt deserve that in any way, Djokovic said. She obviously is volunteering and doing her work. She loves tennis, and shes been there, as I understood, for quite a few years. Djokovic had won five of the past seven Grand Slam tournaments to raise his total to , closing in on rivals Roger Federer, who has a mensrecord , and Rafael Nadal, who has . Federer injury and Nadal concerns about travel amid the coronavirus pandemic both did not play at the US Open. Sorry for him. He had an opportunity there, Nadal said. But in some way you should not be doing this. ... It is important to have the right selfcontrol on the court. Djokovic has an openinground bye in Rome. His first match this week will come against either Italian wildcard entry Salvatore Caruso or a qualifier. The tournament at the Foro Italico in Rome was rescheduled from May because of the pandemic and will be played without fans in attendance. Nadal, who has a record nine Italian Open titles, is on the opposite side of the draw from Djokovic. The Spaniard is returning to tennis for the first time since February. I am similar to alwaysmaybe a little bit worse because I didnt compete for the last six months, Nadal said. To feel that youre  percent you need matches. Nadal opens against Carreno Busta. Hes playing great, Nadal said. Going to be a good test. Like at the US Open, players are being kept in a protective bubble and being tested frequently for the coronavirus. But as opposed to the situation in New York, players are not required to wear masks when they enter and leave the court. All of the players have been tested, so that makes total sense, sixthranked Stefanos Tsitsipas said. And they dont have people running around telling you what do and what protocol you have to follow every single minute that youre in the bubble. Plus, the accommodation is another level. Mens players are staying at the fivestar Rome Cavalieri, which overlooks the city center from a hilltop. Associated Press