Chinas Beidou system offers  different user services
2021/9/10 7:46
Photo taken on Sept ,  shows a golden mask discovered at the No  sacrificial pit of the Sanxingdui Ruins site in Southwest Chinas Sichuan province.  Another gold mask discovered at the Sanxingdui Ruins site in Guanghan, Sichuan province, is the biggest of its kind unearthed at the site so far and further illustrates the custom of the ancient Shu people to use gold items, experts said. The mask, which is relatively intact, is . centimeters wide, . cm high and weighs about  grams. It was discovered at the No  pit, the Sichuan Provincial Cultural Relics and Archeology Research Institute said on Thursday. Earlier this year, a likewise eyecatching gold mask was found at the No  pit. The institute announced the discovery of , cultural relics from the No  and No  pits, of which  are relatively intact and the rest are fragments. Among the items, the gold mask is a highlight. Gold items were found at the Sanxingdui Ruins site as early as , including gold foil pieces that show how the precious metal was used by the ancient Shu people. Shu was an ancient state in what is now Sichuan. Xu Feihong, a Shanghai University lecturer who is in charge of the excavation of the No  pit, told chinanews.com that the gold mask was found in June. After restoration, it turned out to be the biggest complete golden mask found at the site, with fine texture and quality. Relatively intact relics from the pits include  bronze objects and  elephant tusks. A large bronze mask unearthed in May is one of more than  relics discovered in recent months at the Sanxingdui Ruins site in Sichuan province. Archaeologists are impressed with the historical value of the objects and the creativity and ingenuity of their designers. Photo by YU JIAFOR CHINA DAILY A unique bronze artifact from the No  pit features a man carrying a bronze vessel known as a zun that has a round rim and a square body, said Ran Honglin, an archaeologist at the institute. Three bronze figures, with their palms pressed together and their heads twisted to the right, have been excavated from the No  pit. These three bronze figures are a unique find among Sanxingdui items in terms of their shape and decorative pattern, and they provide further material for studying the bronze casting technology of the Shu people as well as their art, religious beliefs, social system and cultural exchanges with surrounding areas, Ran said. Radiocarbon dating has shown that the No  and No  pits, at , to , years old, go back to the late Shang Dynasty c.th centuryth century BC, he said. The digging of the No  pit undertaken by Shanghai University and Rans institute started on Jan  and is expected to be completed in the next two months. Excavation of the No  pit, which the institute began in October last year, was completed on Aug . The Sanxingdui Ruins site, which is  kilometers north of Chengdu, the capital of Sichuan, covers  square kilometers. Archaeological discoveries show it was a highly developed and prosperous cultural hub established between , and , years ago. The site was discovered by accident in  when Yan Daocheng, a villager in Guanghan, unearthed a pit full of jade and stone artifacts while repairing a sewage ditch at the side of his house. From the s onward, many archaeologists have conducted excavations at the location. A breakthrough came in the s, when the remains of large palaces and parts of the eastern, western and southern city walls and two large sacrificial pits, now known as the No  and No  pits, were found. The findings confirmed that the site housed the ruins of an ancient city that was the political, economic and cultural center of the Shu Kingdom. Chen Xiandan, a leading archaeologist in Chengdu who took part in excavations of the site in the s, said that before the excavation work was carried out, it was thought that Sichuan had a history of just , years. Thanks to this work, it is now believed that civilization in what is now Sichuan goes back , years. Dong Wenli contributed to this story.