TV series adds touch of reality to drama
2020/9/16 0:00
As a key port city of the st Century Maritime Silk Road and the Silk Road Economic Belt, Xiamen in Fujian province has played a crucial role in enhancing economic and trade exchanges with countries and regions involved in the Belt and Road Initiative. This is thanks to its fast development of logistics channels, said local officials. To date, Xiamen has opened  new shipping routes to the Maritime Silk Road, attracting nearly  wellknown companies involved in ports, shipping, logistics, and trade worldwide. Last year, the container throughput of Xiamen Port completed . million twentyfoot equivalent units, making it the th largest port in the world. In June and July this year, the monthly container throughput of Xiamen Port exceeded  million TEUs. In , the first ChinaEurope train departed from the Fujian Pilot Free Trade Zone in Xiamen via Chengdu. The train has become a vital logistics route for ensuring SinoEuropean trade exchanges and cooperation. At present, Xiamen has opened freight train routes to Central Europe, Central Asia and Russia, reaching more than  cities in  countries. These including Poznan, Poland Budapest, Hungary Hamburg, Germany Moscow, Russia and Almaty and Tashkent in Central Asia. By Aug ,  international freight trains had left Xiamen with a total of , TEUs and a cargo value of  million. More than  trains have traveled in five years, carrying , TEUs with a cargo value of . billion. Since the beginning of , the ChinaEurope freight trains have carried masks, protective clothing, medical equipment, shoes, hats and clothing and other urgently needed materials to countries and regions involved in the Belt and Road Initiative. At the same time, Xiamen opened new flight routes to build a threedimensional transport network encompassing sea, land and air. At present, there are  routes from Xiamen to countries and regions involved in the Belt and Road Initiative. They form a route network with Xiamen as the core, covering Southeast Asia and Northeast Asia, and connecting Asia, Europe, America and Australia. Statistics from Xiamen Customs show that in , Xiamens imports and exports to countries and regions involved in the Belt and Road Initiative totaled . billion yuan . billion. It represented an increase of . percent from  and accounted for . percent of Xiamens total foreign trade value. ? A ship loaded with containers comes in to dock at a port in Xiamen. CHEN LIJIEFOR CHINA DAILY ? ?