Sinopecs ecommerce platform reaches transaction milestone
2020/9/15 9:31
People wearing face masks queue for the coronavirus test outside a testing center in Hong Kong, Sept , .  COVID sampling program helped identify cases that were difficult to find The twoweek universal testing program managed to cut the community transmission chain in Hong Kong to some extent as at least  asymptomatic infections have been discovered since it was launched, local authorities and medical practitioners said on Monday. Initiated on Sept , the free program attracted over . million Hong Kong residents. Official data show that the asymptomatic patients came from various sectors, with at least five working in the catering business. Speaking at a daily news briefing on the epidemic, Chuang Shukkwan of the Centre for Health Protection said that the Universal Community Testing Program helped the department to identify cases that were difficult to discover through normal testing procedures as many of them were asymptomatic and not included in highrisk groups. Anthony Wu Tingyuk, chairman of BGIs genetic laboratory in Hong Kong, said that the detection of  infections had prevented at least  cases of infections and cut off six potential chains of transmission. Wu said the program provided a good model for crossborder cooperation with a project supported by the central government, planned by the SAR government and implemented by local companies. BGI has around  local lab technicians working at the HuoYan laboratory built for virus testing. About , local medical staff and medical students had helped collect samples at  testing centers across the city, while a sample testing team, consisting of local practitioners and mainland experts who were assigned by the central government to the city, worked  in the HuoYan laboratory. Fu Di, a local doctor who volunteered at the centers, said he was honored to be part of the citywide public health campaign. He recalled that there was a warm atmosphere at the sampling centers, with medical staff and residents cooperating regardless of all the difficulties. It gave the impression that Hong Kong is still a pragmatic, rational society with people understanding each other, he said. Secretary for the Civil Service Patrick Nip Takkuen noted that after the completion of the program, the SAR government would continue to expand testing for highrisk groups including residential caring home staff, restaurant workers and public transport workers. Secretary for Education Kevin Yeung Yunhung revealed that the government was considering arranging a voluntary mass test for teachers as the school would resume onsite classes in stages starting from Sept . Hong Kong reported  new COVID cases on Monday. The city now has , confirmed cases and  related deaths.