Hydrogen to drive clean energy moves
2020/9/14 16:39
A protester stands with smoke bombs at the ready in a rally organized by the yellow vest movement in Paris on Saturday. CHINA DAILY PARISFrench police fired tear gas and arrested more than  people in Paris on Saturday as they tussled with yellow vest protesters seeking to revive an antigovernment movement curbed by a coronavirus lockdown this year. The yellow vests activists, named after motorists highvisibility jackets, emerged in late  in protest against fuel taxes and the cost of living, posing a major challenge to President Emmanuel Macron as demonstrations spread across France. By midday on Saturday, hundreds of demonstrators had gathered at the starting points of two authorized marches in Paris. While one cortege proceeded without incident, the other march was aborted as police clashed with groups who left the designated route and set fire to waste bins and a car. Some protesters wore black clothes and carried the flag of an antifascist movement, suggesting the presence of radical demonstrators dubbed black blocks, who are often blamed for violence at street marches in France. Police repeatedly used tear gas to counter small groups of roaming protesters, before they dispersed toward the end of the afternoon. Police had made  arrests by  pm, with many for carrying items such as tools that could be used as weapons. Interior Minister Gerald Darmanin said he supported authorities who are stopping the violent troublemakers. On Feb , the government decided to ban all public gatherings with more than , people due to the COVID outbreak. The ban has been extended to Oct . A heavy police presence notably worked to prevent protesters reaching the ChampsElysees. The famous shopping avenue was the scene of rioting at the height of the yellow vest movement, and many shops there were boarded up on Saturday. Resurgence in cases The return of the protest movement comes as France grapples with a resurgence in coronavirus cases. The country registered , in  hours on the weekend, a new daily record, as the number topped , for the first time. The previous record of a little less than , had been set on Thursday. The rise led the government to outline additional measures on Friday to avert a return to the general lockdown put in place earlier in the year. Prime Minister Jean Castex promised steps to speed up test and toughen local measures in highinfection zones. By the weekend France had recorded more than , confirmed cases. Police called on Saturdays demonstrators to respect coronavirus measures in Paris, which is among Frances highrisk areas and where it is compulsory to wear a face mask in the street. Other protests are also planned in Marseille, Toulouse, Lyon, Lille, Nantes, Nice, Bordeaux and Strasbourg. Agencies Via Xinhua