COVID confusion as rule of six introduced
2020/9/14 15:47
HONG KONG  The coronavirus has catapulted Hong Kongs hightech antipandemic products onto the world stage, while boosting epayment among local consumers, says Secretary for Innovation and Technology Alfred Sit Winghang. The timing has never been better for Hong Kong to promote its hightech products overseas, and for businesspeople to understand the importance of embracing technology, he told China Daily in an interview on Friday. The new normal created by the COVID outbreak, such as wearing masks and taking temperature checks in public places, has spawned huge demand for technology products that facilitate peoples daily life, Sit said. He cited as examples the locally developed smart wristbands worn by people being quarantined, temperaturetaking robots and the reusable fabric CuMask, which was developed by a public research institute and can be washed and reused up to  times. The government distributed the masks to all residents free of charge in May and June. According to Sit, the second batch of the reusable masks will be distributed to residents this month against a possible spike in COVID infections this winter. He said the masks awardwinning design and the quarantine wristbands caught the attention of two recent webinars in Thailand and Indonesia, adding that more than  countries have shown interest in the wristbands. Hong Kong Chief Executive Carrie Lam Cheng Yuetngor, second from right, talks to a worker while visiting one of the production sites of CuMask in Tsuen Wan, Hong Kong on May , . PHOTOINFORMATION SERVICES DEPARTMENTHKSAR Theres great potential to promote our antipandemic technology to countries and regions in Asia, he said. Hong Kongs application of technology in battling the virus has won recognition from the world community, said Sit, adding that a communications museum in Germany has approached the bureau with an invitation to display the quarantine wristbands at its thematic exhibition. The pandemic, he noted, has also changed the citys fledgling electronic payment and ecommerce landscape. As part of its AntiEpidemic Fund, the government launched a program to support local enterprises in adopting information technology solutions to keep their businesses afloat. In addition to the original HK million . million, the government also decided to allocate an additional HK billion to cope with the overwhelming response to the program. According to the Innovation and Technology Commission, the program had received , funding applications as of Tuesday. Up to  percent of the applicants were small and mediumsized enterprises. So far, , of the applications have been approved, with total funding exceeding HK million. Sit reckons that biotechnology will be one of the biggest winners amid the pandemic. Hes confident that Hong Kong, as the worlds secondlargest fundraising hub for biotechnology firms, will hit the top spot within the next  to  years. Sit predicted a boom for Hong Kongs biotechnology development in the following decade, spurred by the pandemic and fueled by the development of the GuangdongHong KongMacao Greater Bay Area. The Bay Area offers an enormous consumer market and growing demand for healthcare solutions, he said. Sit said the government will continue to expand its funding for local research institutes and technology enterprises, and provide more resources to lure top innotech professionals from around the world. Hong Kong may be an option for Chinese professionals who leave the United States amid increased US sanctions, he said. The SAR government will offer them greater financing support and favorable research facilities, plus more opportunities to network with investors and manufacturers in the Bay Area and other mainland cities to help them commercialize their research work, he said. Technology is the new engine for our economy and it will be important for our business revival, Sit said, adding that Hong Kong must make full use of the opportunities.