Wall Street closes broadly higher on deal news, vaccine hopes
2020/9/14 11:08
Here are some of the most striking images taken from around the world over the past week. A fountain show is held at Al Shaheed Park, one of the largest urban parks in Kuwait City, Kuwait, on Sept , .  A worker sprays disinfectant in a kindergarten to prevent the spread of the COVID in Skopje, North Macedonia, on Sept , . Kindergartens in North Macedonia opened on Sept  while respecting health protocols.  A student walks through a disinfectantsprayer at the Bak Touk High School in Phnom Penh, Cambodia, on Sept , . Schools in Cambodia reopened on Monday after a sixmonth closure due to the impact of the COVID pandemic.  A man wearing a face mask looks at a Pepper robot at SoftBank Robotics in Paris on Sept , . With a new feature, Pepper robot can detect whether people are wearing face masks and if not instructs them to wear.  A firefighter sprays water to put out the blaze in Anavissos, a seaside village at southern Attica, in Athens, Greece, on Sept , . On Wednesday morning a fire broke out at the area of Anavissos, some  kilometers south of Athens, burning trees and bushes, threatening houses and buildings while some villages at the area were precautionary evacuated.  Customers patronize the new Apple Marina Bay Sands store on its opening day in Singapore on Sept , .  Health workers disinfect a public area in Khemisset, Morocco, on Sept , . Morocco announced on Sunday , new COVID infections, taking the tally in the North African country since March  to ,.  People run through the Empty Sky memorial at sunrise at Liberty State Park in Jersey City of New Jersey, Sept , . People on Friday commemorated the th anniversary of the  attacks, which left nearly , killed or missing, and were the largest terrorist attacks on US soil in history.  Visitors take selfies in front of the Brandenburg Gate illuminated during the  Festival of Lights in Berlin on Sept , . Berlin on Friday turned into a city of light art with the opening of the  Festival of Lights which will last until Sept .  ? Firefighters watch the Bobcat Fire after an evacuation was ordered for the residents of Arcadia, California, US, September , .  People dine under a canopy at a restaurant which is designed to keep different groups of diners separated and safe following the governments COVID guidelines in London, on Sept , .  Yoshihide Suga C, Fumio Kishida R and Shigeru Ishiba, candidates for the next leader of the Liberal Democratic Party LDP, bow after presenting their policy ideas to party members at LDPs headquarters in Tokyo, Japan, Sept , . Campaigning officially kicked off Tuesday for the ruling LDPs top post with three candidates vying for the position to succeed Prime Minister Shinzo Abe. 