After a long, unrelenting battle, all the flowers are about to bloom
2020/9/14 9:00
Workers proudly show off seedlings at their oiltea camellia farm in the village of Gumu in Luzhai county in the Guangxi Zhuang autonomous region. The plants are grown to enable the extraction of oil. Such activities are among many in the region, in Chinas south, that are helping to lift people out of poverty. Guangxi has seen tremendous growth, Yukio Hatoyama says. HUANG XIAOBANGXINHUA Even COVID cant derail Chinas quest to end extreme poverty, says a former Japanese prime minister confident on yearend goal Editors note As China aims to eliminate extreme poverty and be a moderately prosperous society xiaokang shehui in time for the th anniversary of the founding of the Communist Party of China next year, we talk to leading experts for their take on the countrys commitment. As economies worldwide attempt to balance protecting public health with the need to get back to normal business, Yukio Hatoyama, a former Japanese prime minister, is confident that China will achieve its goal of eliminating extreme poverty by the end of this year despite the havoc that COVID has wreaked. COVID poses a huge challenge to China, but I am optimistic that it will be able to rise to this challenge, Hatoyama said. The Chinese economy will recover in the second part of the year. Hatoyamas confidence is borne out by Chinese exports for July, which rose . percent in dollar terms compared with July last year, in a sign of resilience despite the fallout of the pandemic worldwide. In June exports rose . percent compared with June last year, the economy beginning to improve after a severe contraction in the first two months of the year. The CaixinMarkit services purchasing managers index rose to a year high of . in June, compared with  in May and a nadir of . in February, indicating accelerated recovery as consumer spending rebounds as life gradually returns to normal. I think it critical for China to make a new model for the post COVID economy, and I believe you can successfully do that, said Hatoyama, who was Japans prime minister from September  to June . The trend for the elimination of extreme poverty remains firm, and the target will be met shortly. The roots of poverty eradication in China go back to , when Chinese officials were in talks with the Japanese prime minister of the time, Masayoshi Ohira. Former Chinese leader Deng Xiaoping referred to xiaokang society, describing it as the goal of Chinas modernization. Deng had in mind a China that would one day become a country whose people would be moderately welloff, one in which economic prosperity could give most of the population a comfortable living. In the four decades of reform and opening up since, poverty eradication has always been a centerpiece of the Communist Party of Chinas policies at all levels, with hundreds of thousands of people and local officials being urged to promote poverty alleviation that is linked with strict, measurable objectives. In the book Up and Out of Poverty, which is a collection of speeches and articles made by President Xi Jinping more than  years ago, when he was Party chief of the city of Ningde of Fujian province, he made poverty eradication a personal mission and gave people some first hints about his idea of how to go about the task. He highlighted four principles avoiding a poverty mentality if you believe you are poor, you will be adopting development measures suitable to local conditions stressing the importance of strong leadership and coordination and not wasting money on grandiose projects just because they may be popular. Point of success If you read the first principle its all mental, President Xis four principles get to the point of succeeding in almost every project, Hatoyama said. The real greatness of President Xi is that he has actually executed those principles, proving that he is a man of his word. In less than a month after Xi took the helm following the th CPC National Congress in , he put forward his concept of a Chinese dream for the great rejuvenation of the Chinese people.The dream consisted of realizing the Two Centenary Goals China becoming a moderately welloff society by about , the th anniversary of the Chinese Communist Party, and China becoming completely developed by about , the th anniversary of the founding of the Peoples Republic of China. Eliminating poverty, improving living standards and achieving common prosperity are the basic requirements of socialism and an important mission of the CPC, Xi said. Building a moderately prosperous society in all aspects is our fundamental promise to the people. To achieve these goals, an average of  million people have been lifted out of poverty each year and about , officials have been sent to villages to promote poverty alleviation. Since  government funding for these efforts has risen more than  percent a year. As a result, China has made huge advances in relieving poverty, winning plaudits from international organizations including the United Nations and the World Bank for raising  million people out of extreme poverty. Chinas success in eradicating absolute poverty in such a short period must be understood as unprecedented, Hatoyama said. I admire Chinese people for their dedication to the project of poverty eradication. However, he said, Chinas efforts are insufficiently acknowledged, particularly in the West. It is a pity that relatively few people in the world seem to realize this great achievement, he said. In the age of globalization, the vast volume of goods, people, money are transacted across borders. But that does not always guarantee real mutual understanding. China should redouble its efforts to make itself understood, and the rest of the world, especially the West, should also try to understand China. Amid the COVID pandemic, Western media started to question whether China could still achieve its goal of eradicating extreme deprivation by the end of this year, citing shutdowns and a shrinking economy in the first quarter. To make matters worse, this summer swathes of China were inundated by floods. Commenting on doubts about whether China could achieve its goal, Premier Li Keqiang said at the end of the National Peoples Congress in May that the country remained on track to end extreme poverty. Before COVID struck, there were about  million people living below the poverty line, Li said. But because of the disease, some may have fallen back into poverty. We hence face a greater task in achieving our goal. Former Japanese prime minister Yukio Hatoyama fourth from left helps plant trees during a visit to the Nanjing Massacre Memorial Hall in . His foundation has planted almost  million trees over the past  years in China. YANG BOFOR CHINA DAILY Decisive victory In a recent inspection tour of Jilin province in Northeast China, Xi reiterated the importance of ensuring a decisive victory in building a moderately prosperous society in all respects and eradicating poverty. The internal conditions and external environment for the countrys development were undergoing profound and complex changes, he said. We must maintain sustained, healthy economic and social development, Xi said, stressing the need to strengthen study and assessment, deepen research and pursue sound policies. After some setbacks, Chinas economy began to recover rapidly from coronavirus shutdowns and started to grow again. The National Bureau of Statistics said the economy grew . percent in the second quarter, and The Washington Post reported that analysts in Beijing were crowing that the country was bestinclass at dealing with the pandemic. In the same article, Julian EvansPritchard, a senior economist at Capital Economics, was quoted as saying that with jobs and spending returning and the government trying to stimulate growth, the outlook was good. The recovery will inevitably slow down during the second half of the year now that the initial boost from reopening has passed. But we think GDP will return to its previrus trend by the end of the year, faster than in any other major economy. Semblance of normality Life in most parts of China has regained a semblance of normality, although temperature checks are required in most buildings and nearly everyone wears a mask. Many businesses require proof of a clean bill of health through a smartphone app before they will allow customers to enter. Exports also picked up as factories resumed production and the property market began to show some health, which Hatoyama said showed the resilience of a supply chain system centered around China. The size of Chinas population and the Chinese peoples qualities made this possible, Hatoyama said. In other developing countries, conditions are not always the same, and there is not one way to climb a mountain. However, they have a lot to learn from Chinese model. They can modify it to fit their own course. There is no doubt that China can be a good Sherpa for other developing countries. In an article titled Take Targeted Measures Against Poverty, Xi outlined how China could relieve poverty, the message essentially boiling down to boosting the economy to provide job opportunities locally, relocating povertystricken people, improving education and enhancing social help for those who have completely or partially lost the ability to work. We should encourage all people to work for a better future with their own hands and rely on local resources to end poverty, Xi said. Those who cannot escape from poverty locally can be relocated year by year in a planned and organized way, and the best way to help the poor is to raise their educational level. Hatoyama said China is happy to show the world a way of curbing unrelenting, shameinducing and exhausting extreme poverty. It can do this because it has lifted more people out of poverty than any other country and it was the first to realize the UN Millennium Development Goals. When people live so close to the bone, a small setback can quickly spiral into a major trauma and all people should be freed from that fear, Hatoyama said. However, ending absolute poverty is just a first step, he said, because eradicating poverty is a neverending project in which demographics, environmental degradation and energy scarcity also matter. He himself has been involved in Chinas endeavor. My foundation has planted almost  million trees for  years in various parts of China, said Hatoyama, who had once planted trees on both sides of the Three Gorges Dam and visited the Guangxi Zhuang autonomous region. Visiting Guangxi was a heartwarming experience. I am very pleased to find that all over there is tremendous growth. I will continue to work with people to eradicate poverty and preserve nature. President Xi once told me Spring has not yet come when you see a single flower blooming. You can say spring has come only after you see every flower blooming. Improving disparities in society will be the next big challenge for China, as well as for Japan. Chinas growth is, of course, good for it and its people, but I firmly believe its also good for the rest of the world. Yukio Hatoyama comes from a prominent Japanese political family. His father served as the countrys foreign minister and his grandfather as prime minister. Hatoyama was prime minister from September  to June . He was the countrys first prime minister from the modern Democratic Party of Japan, and he was the first opposition party leader to oust the Liberal Democratic Party from government in decades. Hatoyama, both as a politician and an observer, has long been a keen researcher of Chinas political and economic development. During his term, the relationship between China and Japan enjoyed a warming period. He has dedicated himself to promoting reconciliation between Japan and China over historical issues. He believes that by learning more about Chinas poverty alleviation the world can better understand the country.