Banks offer series of loans to boost growth
2020/9/13 8:45
Naomi Osaka of Japan celebrates winning against Victoria Azarenka of Belarus in the womens singles final match on day  of the  US Open tennis tournament at USTA Billie Jean King National Tennis Center in New York, US on Sept , .  NEW YORK  Japans Naomi Osaka came from a set down to beat Victoria Azarenka of Belarus to win the US Open on Saturday and clinch her third Grand Slam title. Osaka, the fourth seed, overcame her unseeded opponent , ,  in hr min inside a nearempty Arthur Ashe Stadium at Flushing Meadows. It brought yearold Osakas haul of tennis major trophies to three after her victories at the  US Open and  Australian Open. Azarenka, , sprinted to the first set in just  minutes, dominating Osaka with an  percent success rate on her first serve. The Japanese was uncharacteristically sloppy, hitting a whopping  unforced errors. Azarenka then went  ahead in the second set before Osaka fought back to break her opponents serve twice and take a  lead. The momentum had quickly swung in Osakas favor and she broke a third time to take the match to a deciding set. Osaka enjoyed the first breakthrough of set three in game four when she broke Azarenkas serve to take a  lead. Azarenka then blew a golden opportunity to get back into the match, wasting three break points as Osaka recovered from  to hold for a  lead. Azarenka then saved four break points to make it  as she battled to keep the contest alive. When she broke Osaka in game seven, the set was back on serve. But Osaka immediately broke back after Azarenka pushed a forehand wide to leave herself the opportunity of serving for the match. On Osakas second championship point, Azarenka found the net. ? Naomi Osaka of Japan taps rackets with Victoria Azarenka of Belarus in the womens singles final match on day  of the  US Open tennis tournament at USTA Billie Jean King National Tennis Center in Noew York, US on Sept , .  After touching racquets with her opponent, Osaka lay down in the middle of the court and looked up at the sky in celebration. Osaka had walked onto the court wearing a mask bearing the name of Tamir Rice, a yearold AfricanAmerican boy who was shot dead by a white police officer in Cleveland, Ohio in . Osaka, of Japanese and Haitian heritage, wore different masks honoring victims of racial injustice and police brutality in each round of the tournament. The  Australian Open champion also donned face coverings bearing the names of Breonna Taylor, Elijah McClain, Ahmaud Arbery, Trayvon Martin, George Floyd and Philando Castile. AFP ?