people in Hubei province face punishment for spread of virus
2021/9/10 0:00
Public schools across the United States are reporting increasing numbers of coronavirus cases among children as they return to classrooms and COVIDrelated deaths among school staff members. About , children tested positive for coronavirus infections in the week up to Sept , the largest number of weekly child cases since the pandemic began, according to data released by the American Academy of Pediatrics and the Childrens Hospital Association on Tuesday. Children accounted for . percent of all reported weekly coronavirus cases for the week, the data showed. More than  million children have tested positive for the virus in the United States since the beginning of the pandemic. After declining in early summer, the number of child cases has increased exponentially, with more than , child cases added between Aug  and Sept , the report said. The two organizations compiled data from  states, New York City, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico and Guam. However, they added that their data was limited due to some states no longer reporting child hospitalizations or undercounting cases. In Florida, a judge ruled on Wednesday that the state cannot enforce a ban by Governor Ron DeSantis on public schools mandating the use of masks to guard against the coronavirus until an appeals court decides whether it is legal. Leon County Circuit Judge John Cooper said the overwhelming evidence before him in a lawsuit by parents challenging the ban is that wearing masks does provide some protection for children in crowded school settings, particularly those under  for whom no vaccine yet exists. Were not in normal times. We are in a pandemic, Cooper said during a remote hearing. We have a variant that is more infectious and dangerous to children than the one we had last year. All  school staff members who have died of COVID in MiamiDade County since Aug  were African American and hadnt been vaccinated, Karla HernandezMats, president of the United Teacher of Dade union, told CNN on Wednesday. Four teachers, one security monitor, one cafeteria worker and seven school bus drivers were killed by the virus. HernandezMats said she helped coordinate a popup vaccination site on Tuesday for employees in MiamiDade following the deaths. About  people had arrived to receive their first dose a few hours into the event. She blamed misinformation for low vaccination rates in the African American community. All that misinformation is creating a lot of fear, HernandezMats told CNN. ... We looked at the data that we got from the department of health here in the county and basically what it told us was that  percent of the African American community is vaccinated, and thats way below our averages here. In Texas, Connally Independent School District shut down all campuses temporarily after two teachers died of COVID last month, to give students and staff time to isolate and recover from the infections. The increasing numbers of cases in Texas havent come as a surprise, as schools were open when the Delta variant was driving up the infection rate across the nation. While federal and local health officials and data reflect that COVID vaccines are effective in preventing serious illness, some school districts have moved to institute vaccine mandates, including in New Jersey, New York City, Chicago and Los Angeles. However, governors in some states such as Texas and Florida have banned mandatory vaccination requirements and the wearing of masks. Pittsburghs public schools and the union that represents staff are finalizing an agreement that will require district employees to get vaccinated or be tested weekly for the coronavirus, according to the Pittsburgh PostGazette. mayzhouchinadailyusa.com Lauren Bradford left and her two children are greeted by Trish Gomes and her daughter Maeve at the Long Branch Elementary School in Arlington, Virginia, on Aug . ANNA MONEYMAKERAFP