Azarenka stuns Serena to set up US Open final against Osaka
2020/9/11 14:25
Victoria Azarenka of Belarus R reacts touches racquets with Serena Williams of the United States L after their match in a womens singles semifinals match on day ten of the  US Open tennis tournament at USTA Billie Jean King National Tennis Center in New York, Sept , .  NEW YORK  Victoria Azarenka came from a set down to stun recordchasing Serena Williams on Thursday and set up a US Open final against Japans Naomi Osaka. Azarenka recovered from a  hammering in the first set to win the next two ,  and schedule her first Grand Slam final appearance in seven years. The former world number one is enjoying a remarkable renaissance in New York that the Belarusian credits to finding humility, following several years disrupted by injury and a custody battle over her son. I think when youre coming up from kind of nothing, then you become a number one player in the world, sometimes you can start to think youre invincible and that youre better than everybody, and its not true, Azarenka said. So the ego starts to grow. Its very hurtful when it gets damaged. Instead of getting the ego damaged, I tried to remove that and learn from my mistakes, she added. After a first set plagued by double faults and unforced errors, Azarenka turned the tide in the second, upping her service game and getting more returns in play as she began to dictate lengthy rallies. I knew I needed to step up with my aggressivity, play a little smarter, play with a little bit more width of the court and bring the intensity up, Azarenka explained. Twotime Grand Slam winner had never beaten Williams before in a Grand Slam. Her last appearance in a Grand Slam final came in the US Open in  when Williams beat her. Azarenka also suffered a heartbreaking loss to Williams in the  US Open final, when she served for the match at  in the third set only to lose . Azarenka was determined that history would not repeat itself. Serving for the match, she hit a double fault before smashing her fastest serve of the night at  mph. When Williams then challenged and lost an ace that was called in on the next point, it was Azarenkas match. Ive been there before. Today was gonna be different, Azarenka said. Williams said she started the  hr  minmatch really strong. But then she just kept fighting. She just changed and started playing better and better. Maybe I took a little too much off the gas pedal at some point, the American added. The defeat ended Williams hopes of winning a recordequalling th singles Grand Slam at Flushing Meadows. It has been more than three years since Williams won her rd singles tennis major title at the  Australian Open. Azarenkas last Slam title came at the  Australian Open, when she retained the crown she had won a year earlier. The yearolds march to the US Open final comes after she claimed last months Western and Southern Open tuneup event in New York. Her recent rejuvenation has seen her rise to th in the world rankings. Azarenka has been smiling and dancing on court, and even meditating during breaks. She says shes enjoying her tennis more than ever and credits it to a newfound maturity. I started taking more responsibility for what I do, for what happens to me, and responsibility of how Im going to react to situations. Azarenka, who had a son in December , will bid to become only the fourth woman to win a singles Grand Slam in the Open era after having children. She faces a formidable opponent in twotime Grand Slam winner and fourth seed Naomi Osaka, who defeated th seed Jennifer Brady  , , . Osaka, of Haitian and Japanese heritage, walked onto the court wearing a facemask emblazoned with the name of Philando Castile, a black man who was shot dead by a police officer during a traffic stop in Minnesota in . The  Australian Open champion says she is getting strength from wearing different masks honoring victims of racial injustice and police brutality throughout the tournament. I do think its a very big motivating factor for me just to try to, like, get the names out to as many people as I can, Osaka said. AFP