Trump says US troops in Iraq to be reduced to , soon
2020/9/11 9:33
US soldiers wearing protective masks are seen during a handover ceremony of Taji military base from USled coalition troops to Iraqi security forces, in the base north of Baghdad, Iraq August , .? WASHINGTON  US President Donald Trump said Thursday that US troops in Afghanistan and Iraq would soon be reduced to about , and , respectively. A lot of progress has been made in Afghanistan, but we will be down to , soldiers in a very short period of time. Likewise in Iraq, we will be down to about , soldiers in a very short period of time, Trump said during the White House briefing. Were pretty much out of Iraq and were down to the smallest force that weve had, and well be very short late down to that number in Afghanistan, he added. The troop reduction plan that Trump revealed was a step further than the plan the US military announced a day before. Commander of US Central Command Kenneth McKenzie said Wednesday that US troop presence in Iraq is scheduled to be reduced to , by the end of September, and that in Afghanistan will be decreased to about , by early November. Currently, there are over , US troops deployed in Iraq to support Iraqi forces in battles against remnants of the Islamic State, mainly for training and advisory purposes. As the presidential election looms, Trump has made more effort to fulfill his campaign promise to bring troops home and pull his country out of endless wars. Trump in the briefing also told reporters that Secretary of State Mike Pompeo would head for Qatar for the beginning of intraAfghan peace negotiations. The government of Qatar announced on Thursday that a fresh round of Afghanistan peace talks will start in the Qatari capital Doha on Sept. , according to the Qatar news agency QNA. Trump has sought a full withdrawal of troops from Afghanistan. The war in Afghanistan, which has caused about , US military deaths, is the longest one in US history. The Pentagon said in midJuly that the United States maintained its force level in Afghanistan at mid,s, meeting the conditions of the USTaliban agreement signed in late February. The agreement also called for a full withdrawal of the US military forces from Afghanistan by May  if the Taliban meets the conditions of the deal, including severing ties with terrorist groups.