District prospers after skiing becomes top industry
2020/9/11 9:09
Skiers enjoy the snow at a resort in Chongli district in Zhangjiakou, Hebei province, last October.?WU DIANSENFOR CHINA DAILY When Zhang Xiaojun was young, he worked at a gold mine digging holes underground, a job others envied because such work could provide a stable income at the time. Zhang is a villager at Qipanliang village in Chongli district, Zhangjiakou, in Hebei province. The district, which used to be a county, is about  kilometers northwest of Beijing. Since the s, Chongli has developed its economy mainly by relying on locally abundant resources of minerals such as gold, coal and iron. When Zhang turned  this year, he began to worry more about his health. After working there for several years, I began to cough a lot. My family said it must have been caused by the pollutants at mines, Zhang recalled. He said dust accompanied him every day on the job. My mask was clean when I started working each day and very dirty when I finished, he said. Zhang quit the job for his own health. Chongli wasnt always known for its mines. The former countycovering about , square kilometers, more than  percent of which is mountainshad no big industries to support its economy, relying only on some traditional agricultural products. But the mountainous terrain and lengthy snow seasons restricted the development of largescale agriculture. The situation changed in  when a villager found two pieces of ore with high gold content while he was herding sheep. The discovery led to a series of geological surveys and explorations by local authorities, who found rich mineral resources in the county. Since then, mines have sprung up all over the area. By , Chongli had  gold mining companies and  iron ore enterprises, which contributed as much as  percent of the countys annual revenue, according to the local government. However, the mining business started to fade about  years later when the government realized exploring minerals would not be a sustainable method of development. Though the mining industry had greatly contributed to the districts economy, it also brought in high energy consuming and high polluting companies, said Guo Yanwei, deputy head of the districts development and reform bureau. Peoples lives improved, but the mountains and vegetation had been destroyed. Moreover, the businesses caused other problems including ground subsidence, slag accumulation and dust pollution. If it continued to go like this, what would our future generations rely on? We must transform and make ecology the top priority while finding a highquality development method, Guo said. Transformation to snow After many investigations, Chongli turned a past disadvantage into an advantagedeveloping winter sports with its abundant snow resources. The district has a yearly snowfall period of over  days, with the deepest snowpacks reaching  meter. In , it welcomed Saibei, its first ski resort. Since then, the snow industry has replaced mining to become the pillar of the districts economy. At the time, most tourists were from neighboring cities, including Beijing, Tianjin and other cities in Hebei. Fueled by Beijings successful bid to host the  Winter Olympic Games, Chongliwhich, as a cohost, will hold most of the Games snowrelated eventshas developed into one of the countrys most popular destinations for skiing. The region now boasts seven largescale ski resorts, with a total of  slopes totaling  kilometers, according to the districts publicity department. During the  snow season, which spanned from November to April, Chongli received over . million tourists and generated about  billion yuan  million in revenueup  percent and  percent, respectively, compared with the  snow season. Further, more convenient transportation from Beijing has made tourists more eager to come. A BeijingZhangjiakou highspeed railway opened at the end of last year. It only takes one hour to travel from Qinghe Railway Station in Beijings Haidian district to the Taizicheng Railway Station in Chongli. In the past, the journey could take more than three hours. This year, the regions ski industry during the  snow season was hit by the COVID outbreak. All seven major ski resorts in Chongli suspended operations on Jan  and gradually resumed on Feb . The suspension greatly affected the ski industry and the regions economic development, said Wang Biao, Party secretary of Chongli district. According to the regions statistics bureau, Chonglis GDP for the first three months of the year dropped by . percent to  million yuan. To help companies get through the difficult period, the local government has rolled out measures including the reduction of taxes. Life improved Last year, Chongli was removed from a list of poor areas that were key targets of the countrys poverty alleviation work. The flourishing snow business in the district has played an important role in the effort by creating jobs for locals. Of its , residents, nearly  percent are involved in work related to the ski industry, including ski instructors, cleaners and equipment leasers. Additionally, an increasing amount of talent with ties to the industry or with knowledge of management or tourism development are coming into the district. Cao Wen, a resident of Yaoziwan village, has witnessed the whole process of the snow industrys emergence and has benefited from it. He was one of the earliest instructors that Saibei Ski Resort nurtured in the s. At the time, no instructor from outside wanted to come to our poor county, so the ski resort picked up a dozen local young farmers and taught us how to ski, recalled Cao, . After about a month, he became a training partner and then a formal coach. Back then, I could earn about  yuan a month, a high income at the time in our county, he said. With more and more tourists coming to Chongli to ski, Cao saw a business opportunity. He quit his coaching job and opened a family guesthouse in his village in .Eight years later, he opened a shop in downtown Chongli leasing ski equipment. Most of my family members are together running the shop, Cao said, adding they were earning about , yuan each year from the leasing business before the COVID outbreak this year. Now he is planning to do something else since skiers increasingly have started to buy their own equipment. In addition, such leasing shops have increased in the past few years, boosting competition and affecting his business. The snow business is developing and also changing, so its time for me to figure out another way to get my share of the pie, Cao said.