GINSENG PICKERS PASS ON THEIR SKILLS
2020/9/11 0:00
Cui Changan, , a native of Fusong, Jilin province, has been looking for and digging up ginseng for almost  years. Although its difficult to find goodshaped, largesize wild ginseng that has grown for a long time in forest and mountainous areas, Cui said the skills needed to locate and pick the precious herb must not be lost. Fusong, a county at the northwestern foot of Changbai Mountain, is known as the hometown of ginseng, because the area is home to numerous forests, boasts rich and fertile soil, and has humid and cool weatherideal conditions for the plants to grow. The slowgrowing herb has a lightcolored fleshy root, a relatively long stem, green, ovalshaped leaves and red fruit. Legends and myths about the ginseng root abound among the older generation, as it resembles an energetic man. For example, many experienced pickers tie a red cord around the stem of wild ginseng after finding the herb in forests as, according to a saying,Ginseng will run away like a man if it is not tied down. The herb is believed to restore and enhance wellbeing by boosting energy levels, lowering blood sugar and cholesterol levels, reducing stress and assisting relaxation. This year, it has been used in many traditional Chinese medicines that have been effective in preventing COVID and also relieving symptoms of the disease. In the s, wild ginseng was listed as an endangered plant, meaning that no private individuals can dig it up. According to national forestry regulations, personnel from government departments and private individuals cannot pick the wild plants or destroy their growing conditions in ecologically protected areas. As a result, ginseng that has grown for more than  years is seldom picked in Fusong. Most ginseng growing in the wild is now the result of seeds being spread by humans. Compared with purely wild ginseng, it is cheaper and has a shorter growing period. However, both types have similar health benefits. In addition, cultivated ginseng has proved popular in Fusong in recent decades. Although its efficacy is not as good as that of wild ginseng and it is also cheaper than this variety, it can meet market demand and has a much shorter growing time. In June, the value of ginsengrelated industries in Jilin was about . billion yuan . billion in , according to the Provincial Department of Agriculture and Rural Affairs. The number of industries related to the herb, including food, medicine and cosmetics, was rising, the department said. GDP in Wanliang, a ginseng township in Fusong, reached . billion yuan last year and farmers each were earning more than , yuan annually, according to a statement issued by the county government. It also said efforts have been made to help local residents use ecommerce platforms, livestreaming and artificial intelligence to sell ginseng. Skill required Accompanied by his father and grandfather, Cui, the Fusong native, went into mountains and forests to seek wild ginseng when he was just  or  years old. When he was , he became leader of a team looking for the herb. The history of picking ginseng can be traced to the end of the Qing Dynasty , when many people left their hometowns for northeastern areas of China, where they made a living from the herb. Cui said being a team leader requires keen eyesight, confidence and the ability to ensure the safety of every picker and prevent the team becoming lost in mountainous terrain. A degree of luck is also useful. He added Its hard to say how long it can take to discover wild ginseng. Usually, we bring some food with us to live in the mountains for a couple of days. Sometimes, we come across wild ginseng just a few minutes after we arrive in the mountains, but on other occasions it can take more than  days to find it. He said experienced pickers can estimate the root size of wild ginseng with a  percent degree of accuracy, based on the herbs leaves on the ground. Large, heavy and longergrowing roots are more valuable than others. Experienced pickers follow a set of rules, including only digging up mature roots, leaving others in the ground. In other words, the pickers cannot be greedy or blind. We must protect nature to keep it sustainable, because it nurtures and provides us with food for generations, Cui said. Skill is required to protect ginseng roots as they are being dug up, which can take a picker one to two hours, Cui said. In the case of larger roots, it can take a whole day to extract them. Xu Guili, , often recalls the days when she and her grandfather sought wild ginseng in the mountains, describing this time as her best memory. Looking for wild ginseng during my childhood meant eating fruit growing wild and having more time to play. I liked the forests and mountains where I could find many interesting plants and beautiful streams, she said. Xu described seeking wild ginseng as an adventure, adding that it aroused her curiosity and increased her confidence. She said she discovered her first wild ginseng by accident, adding that it had been a magical experience. When she was , her grandfather took her into the mountains and tied a rope around her waist to keep her close to him, but after untying the rope, Xu fell on a slope. The wild ginseng was discovered at the spot where she landed. Like Cui, Xus grandfather abided by the rules for picking ginseng, including fastening a red cord around the stem of the plant. Xu prefers seeking wild ginseng to extracting it because it took too long to dig up and I often fell asleep. After her grandfather died, Xu, then , never went to the mountains again. Instead, she has followed her mother in processing and selling wild ginseng. Processing is not easy, she said. For example, the temperature of the water used to wash the herb must be no higher than  C, and great care is needed when it is dried. Workers are not allowed to wear hand cream during this process, Xu said. We try to keep the original appearance of the ginseng and avoid any loss of nutrients, she added. After it is washed and dried, the ginseng is placed on red paperboard. I enjoy this step the most, because I can see different shapes in the plants, Xu said.Some resemble cute babies, as the roots are white and fat. Some are like couples, as they embrace each other when being picked. In , Xu opened a ginseng museum in Fusong to display different species of the herb and introduce the industry to more visitors. The museum is like a notebook in which I record my familys stories about ginseng, which I will pass down to the next generation, she said. Farmers attracted The herb matures from July to October. Unlike ginseng in forests, which takes more than  years to grow, that which is artificially cultivated in Fusong matures in about four or five years. This faster growing time has attracted many farmers, including Li Youyi, . He began cultivating ginseng in , and said he has raised his familys standard of living as a result. Soil fertility caused him a problem. Ginseng absorbs many nutrients as it grows, so it is difficult to use the land again immediately after the herb matures. We could only start by using new land, or plant some cheap corn, Li said. The problem is being addressed by agricultural and technological experts, and some experiments are being developed, Li added. His yearold son, Li Shouguo, said the family faced another problem in making more customers aware of the business and in securing sales. There are challenges in both cultivation and promotion, Li Shouguo said, adding that he is learning about them from the internet and is also approaching online platforms to sell cultivated ginseng. He opened an account on the shortvideo platform Douyin early this year, but said few people have followed him and watched his broadcasts. He added that he would learn from this experience. Product promotion Ma Xiaotong, , from Wanliang, Fusong, has had online success with ginseng sales. At the end of , she returned to the county from Shenzhen, Guangdong province, as she wanted to start her own business. When I was in Shenzhen, I often worked overtime, but I felt lost in such a big city. I didnt know why I had to be so busy every day, she said. She decided to return home to sell local agricultural produce and herbs on ecommerce platforms. Although Ma is still working during the day and at night, she no longer feels tired. Im now working for myself and know that this is what I must do for my career, she said. Ma has opened stores on several major ecommerce platforms, including Taobao and JD, to sell her ownbrand ginseng products. In addition to fresh ginseng, she sells related health products, such as food, face masks and soap, targeting consumers age  to . These people work overtime and face a burden raising their families, so they have an increased demand for herbal and health products to boost their energy levels and enhance immunity, she said. Ma said turnover from her online business from January to August rose fourfold yearonyear. This was not only because more people were attaching importance to their health, but was also due to the fact that traditional Chinese medicine was proving effective in relieving COVID symptoms, she said. By assisting local farmers to sell cultivated ginseng online, she has helped more people raise their standard of living. The Wanliang government has also stepped up efforts to help local farmers cultivate and process the herb and find jobs in related industries, lifting them out of poverty and guiding them toward xiaokang, or moderately prosperous lives. To date, about , local residents have used social and ecommerce platforms to sell ginseng, with turnover reaching  million yuan. At the end of last month, Xinhua News Agency reported that more than , enterprises were processing ginseng in Fusong, with  brands and over  related products available. Last year, the medical and health industries involved in ginseng contributed about  million yuan to the local economy. As Fusong witnesses industrial prosperity, local families have found their own ways to pass on ginsengrelated culture. Cui has taught his nephew to find and pick wild ginseng, in the hope that the younger generation will not abandon such skills and can continue to abide by the rules to protect the environment. Xu, who has told her daughter of her own experiences in processing ginseng, has stressed that concentrating on such work is the biggest form of respect to nature. Meanwhile, Li Shouguo and Ma are exploring new ways to promote the herb. Showing ginseng to the world and spreading related knowledge to more people is my way of remembering and inheriting the local plant and its culture, Li said. Contact the writers at caoyinchinadaily.com.cn CHINA DAILY Xu Maojian, , has spent his working life growing ginseng in Fusong county, Jilin province. QI BOZIFOR CHINA DAILY Workers dry and select ginseng in Fusong. CHINA DAILY Ginseng is processed by factory workers in Fusong. ZHAO BOFOR CHINA DAILY Ma Xiaotong promotes ginseng products on a livestreaming platform. ZHAO BOFOR CHINA DAILY Workers inspect ginseng plants in bloom at a greenhouse in Fusong. CHINA DAILY