HK sees  new cases as normal public services to resume
2020/9/10 21:22
People wearing face masks queue for the coronavirus test outside a testing center in Hong Kong, Sept , .  HONG KONG  Hong Kong saw  new COVID cases on Thursday, including five locally transmitted infections, as the government announced the resumption of normal public services from next Tuesday. Two of the new local cases, both untraced, were identified in the citys free coronavirus testing program that started on Sept . One was a yearold woman who worked for a restaurant in Causeway Bay. Her yearold son also tested preliminarily positive. The other was a yearold woman employed by a restaurant in Yuen Long. The other three local infections were close contacts of previously confirmed patients. As of  pm on Thursday, more than . million people had got their swab samples collected, while a total of  patients were identified in the program that has been extended until next Monday, according to health authorities. The seven new imported cases were from India, Iran and the Philippines. The citys total infection tally stood at ,. According to Hong Kongs Hospital Authority,  patients are still hospitalized, including  in critical condition. The number of deaths related to COVID is . Over the past three weeks, the number of confirmed cases showed a descending trend, said Chui Takyi, Under Secretary for Food and Health. However, the infection source of  percent of the cases remained unknown. He urged the public to join the screening program to help identify asymptomatic COVID patients in the community as soon as possible. As the epidemic gradually subsided, the Hong Kong government announced that normal public services will fully resume from Tuesday, with infection control rules like flexible working hours in place. Previously, nonessential and nonemergency services were reduced due to the outbreak. The epidemic situation has stabilized this month. Taking into account the needs for the functioning of society, government departments will resume normal public services, a spokesman said in a statement. As individual bureaux and departments may require more time to carry out necessary manpower deployment and procure supplies and need to comply with the antiepidemic regulations, some of their services may be resumed at a later time, the spokesman said. Game centers and mahjong parlors across the city will be allowed to resume business from Friday after about two months. The Hospital Authority started on Wednesday subjecting all newly admitted patients at public hospitals to coronavirus tests. HAs Director of Quality and Safety Division Chung Kinlai said it was a move to prevent young, asymptomatic patients from spreading the disease to elderly patients in wards.