Tsai on NBA rift Chinas territory nonnegotiable
2021/11/16 7:37
Trash, mostly a variety of plastics, float on the heavily polluted San Juan River, a tributary of Pasig River, in Mandaluyong City, Philippines, on June , .  In the Philippines, small works best for pennycounting consumers, but big problems ensue for the environment from the packaging that supports the tradition. The widespread practice of buying small quantities of food and toiletries produces tons of waste and contributes to global emissions. The culture of tingithe buying and selling of small amounts of everything from soy sauce to shampoohas helped millions of poor families to meet their needs. But environmental advocates say this has also led to the production of a massive number of plasticbased sachets. They cannot be recycled and end up polluting the environment. To make matters worse, these sachets and other singleuse plastic products are a byproduct of the emissionsintensive petrochemicals industry. Break Free From Plastic, a global coalition of environmental organizations, said in a report that consumer goods producers and fossilfuel companies need to be accountable for their pollution. Plastic is made from fossil fuels, and the worlds addiction to singleuse plastic is a serious contributor to the climate crisis, the group said in the report, which was released ahead of the COP  climate summit in Glasgow, Scotland. If the entire plastic life cycle were a country, it would be the fifthlargest emitter of greenhouse gases in the world. In the case of the Philippines, the group said, the country is flooded with singleuse plastic and that sachets comprise  percent of residual plastic waste, as Filipinos dispose of  million sachets every day. These sachets clog waterways, harm wildlife and threaten the tourism and fisheries sectors. Coleen Salamat, plastic solutions campaigner at the Ecological Waste Coalition in Manila, said people use plastic products because they are convenient and cheap. But the low prices do not take into account the environmental impact of their production. The plastic product itself is made up of fossil fuel, so that kind of cheapness is actually expensiveat the expense of the environment, Salamat said. Czarina ConstantinoPanopio, national lead of the No Plastics in Nature Initiative at the World Wide Fund for NaturePhilippines, cited a study by the fund showing that, in , the Philippines per capita plastic consumption was  kilograms, more than  kilograms of which end up as waste. She said only  percent of the plastic products were recycled. Plastic consumption is estimated to have significantly increased in  and  because of the pandemic. Not only have people been wearing masks and face shields, the lockdowns also boosted demand for online shopping and food deliverieswith plenty of plastic packaging. More recycling needed The low level of recycling has worsened the problem of plastic pollution in the Philippines, ConstantinoPanopio said. The Ecological Solid Waste Management Act of  requires local governments to reduce waste by  percent by establishing an integrated solid waste management plan and setting up facilities for waste segregation and recycling. Environmentalists say it is difficult to enforce the law as the Philippines is a sprawling archipelago. Additionally, most cities are congested and have no space for a materials recovery facility. Plastic products have also diversified and that makes it a challenge for consumers to separate out what can still be recycled. While there are enterprises in the Philippines that buy and sell scrap, waste segregation bins are still rare in most parts of the country. According to a World Bank study on plastic waste in the Philippines, the country generates . million tons of plastic waste each year and an estimated  percent ends up in the ocean. The report, released in March, said the Philippines had a large recycling capacity gap of  percent in  and attributed this to several factors, including high logistics costs, steep electricity rates that burden recyclers who operate lowefficiency equipment, and low landfill tipping fees that discourage local governments from investing in waste management solutions.