Jinnan district sees the fruit of its poverty alleviation work
2020/9/10 16:46
Jinnan district is hometown of the famous Xiaozhan Rice. Jinnan district in Tianjin has reported positive results in its campaign to help less developed regions escape poverty by providing them with resources, investment and skills training. As of the end of last year, the district had allocated povertyalleviation funds totaling  million yuan. million, benefiting nearly , poor people and greatly promoting local economic and social development. Three counties in Hebei and Gansu provinces have been lifted out of poverty with the support of the district, and Cele county in Xinjiang Uygur autonomous region will be free from absolute poverty by the months end. Nearly half of the population, about , people, are registered as living in poverty in Cele county. Jinan has introduced concrete work plans to help the county shake off poverty this month. Seven million yuan has been added to create jobs and energize the nighttime economy. Enterprises and institutions in the coastal district have also allocated  million yuan to the inland county. Investments of  million yuan have been used to support local industrial development and tourism. Jinnan also sends civil servants and professionals to work shouldertoshoulder with poor villagers. To consolidate the achievements that counties have made in the antipoverty campaign, the district has set up  million yuan of financial assistance funds, focusing on living standard guarantees and bolstering local education and medical care. Deep bonds between Jinnan district and the aided regions have been established, not only at an economic level, but also in other ways. After the outbreak of the epidemic, despite the tremendous pressure it was under, Jinnan district donated medical masks, N masks, disinfectant, and other materials worth one million yuan to these povertystricken counties. The counties, as thanks, offered . tons of free apples to Jinnans frontline medical workers in the fight against the virus.