Indias health ministry issues guidelines for partial reopening of schools
2020/9/9 14:11
A health worker wearing a face shield and a protective face mask checks the temperature of a man with an electronic thermometer at a school in Mumbai, India, Aug , .  NEW DELHI  Indias federal health ministry issued Standard Operating Procedure SOPs for the partial reopening of schools for class  to class  from Sept  on voluntary basis, officials said Wednesday. Government of India is following a phasewise unlocking of activities. In days to come, this would also involve partial resumption of activities in schools for students of classes th to th on a voluntary basis, for taking guidance from their teachers, reads the advisory. This SOP outlines various generic precautionary measures to be adopted in addition to specific measures to be taken when schools are permitting students in the specific context to prevent the spread of COVID. The guidelines disallow sharing of notebooks, pens or pencils, water bottles among students, prohibition of assemblies and sports, encouraging online learning and entry of asymptomatic persons. However, it said written consent of the students parents or guardians will be required and such visits for teacherstudent interactions must be organized in a staggered manner. According to the guidelines, a seating arrangement has to be made to ensure a distance of six feet between chairs, desks and the teaching faculty will ensure that they themselves and students wear masks throughout the conduct of the teaching or guidance activities. If there is cafeteria or mess facility within the premises, it shall remain closed. For ensuring queue management inside and outside the premises, specific markings on the floor with a gap of six feet may be made. Similarly, physical distancing shall also be maintained in staff rooms, office areas including the reception area, and other places. The guidelines said appropriate backup stock of personal protection items like face covers or masks, hand sanitizers shall be made available by management to the teachers and employees. Adequate supply of thermal guns, alcohol wipes or  percent sodium hypochlorite solutions and disposable paper towels, soap, IEC materials on COVID should be provided. Pulse oximeter to check oxygen saturation levels of any symptomatic person must be arranged, reads the government order. The guidelines further said all employees who are at higher risk like older employees, pregnant employees and employees who have underlying medical conditions should take extra precautions. They should preferably not be exposed to any frontline work requiring direct contact with the students. The ministry said disinfection of the premises should be taken up immediately if any person is found COVID positive.