Peoplecentric policy key to saving lives
2020/9/9 0:00
China may be the safest place on the planet now. Eight months after its arduous battle against the COVID pandemic, it has largely controlled the highly infectious disease. On Tuesday morning China held a meeting at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing to commend the role models in the countrys fight against the COVID epidemic. Now the Chinese mainland has only a handful of imported cases, which were detected at ports of entry thanks to rigorous antipandemic measures including testing, and the infected people were duly quarantined. The governments confidence level is so high that last Thursday Beijing reopened international flights. This is not just some happy talk unrelated to reality, but forged in the crucible of real experience gained during an unprecedented crisis. Under the leadership of President Xi Jinping, and the Communist Party of China, the entire government apparatus including the civil and military authorities was quickly brought to bear in the fight against the pandemic. Doctors, nurses, other health workers and frontline responders, and Party cadres were mobilized in Wuhan and elsewhere to help contain the virus. Some of those even sacrificed their lives for the larger good. Everything may not have been done perfectly. But how could any country do everything perfectly amid such an existential crisis? Yet Wuhan has sprung back to normalcy, as is the rest of China. Swimming pools are crowded. Restaurants are overbooked and schools have reopened. From the middle of Europe, China seems like a fictional alternate universe. Here in Vienna where I live, as COVID numbers are rising, many businesses are permanently shuttered despite financial support from the government. Virtually nobody maintains social distancing. Face masks are generally not worn, except in the few places they are mandatory such as groceries and health facilities. And to think Austria is one of the more successful countries in the fight against the virus. France and Spain, for example, are close to their record highs in the spring of this year. Theres fear in Europe that the doublewhammy of flu and COVID will overwhelm not only the most vulnerable populations like the elderly, but also hospitals and healthcare facilities. So what is to be done? If there ever was a right time for it, universal global cooperation should be the order of the day. Many countries are in fact cooperating through the World Health Organizations COVAX initiative, which is working on up to  or more vaccines, the worlds largest, most diverse vaccine portfolio. There are  potentially selffinancing countries that have made nonbinding expressions of interest in joining  lowand middleincome countries. The goal is to prevent vaccine nationalism by not only making these vaccines a public good accessible to rich and poor countries alike, but also prioritizing access to those most in need, including the elderly and other most vulnerable groups, in addition to frontline responders. China has been taking an active part in the initiative. As Foreign Ministry spokesperson Hua Chunying said, Chinese authorities and vaccine producers held a videoconference with the WHO and other stakeholders on Sept  to discuss the particulars of Chinas involvement. But one country, which for seven decades was the goto leader in times of global crises, has been missing in action, as it has turned inward, and is spending more time and energy in playing the blame game, than working together. Sadly, that is my country, the United States of America. The US, with  percent of the worlds population, accounts for almost  percent of the COVID cases more than . million cases and over , deaths. In fact, the latest model of the University of Washingtons Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation shows that by Jan , the number of deaths in the US could rise to ,more than of all US combatant deaths in World War II. To divert attention and to shift the blame, the US administration has been demonizing China since April. Of course, the US isnt sitting still. On May , it announced Operation Warp Speed, a  billion program to develop and deliver  million safe and effective vaccine doses by January. Last week, however, US states were suddenly ordered to prepare for mass inoculations on Nov , just a couple of days before the presidential election. And the White House further isolated itself from the international community by announcing that, the United States will continue to engage our international partners to ensure we defeat this virus, but we will not be constrained by multilateral organizations influenced by the corrupt World Health Organization and China. Many experts see this as a childish, churlish and potentially fatal mistake, akin to not having an insurance policy in case none of the US vaccines are found to be effective and safewhich can be a possibility, given the compressed timeline for vaccine development, the previous record being four years. How the US would engage with international partners is unclear since it has excluded itself from the WHOaffiliated COVAX program and its  country partners. The only explanation was provided in June by the US Food and Drug Administrations Peter Marks who said that its analogous to an oxygen mask on a depressurized airplane Youre going to put on your own first and then help others. Translation America first and a dose of vaccine nationalism. How much this transactional administration that routinely accuses its allies of constantly ripping off the US would charge is anyones guess, but it is unlikely to be a public good. In any case, I look forward to getting on an airplane and returning to the safety and stimulation of China. SONG CHENCHINA DAILY The author is a senior fellow at Beijingbased think tank Center for China and Globalization.