Xi China does its best to aid global fight against COVID
2020/9/8 10:54
China holds a meeting to commend role models in the countrys fight against the COVID epidemic in Beijing on Tuesday morning, Sept , .  President Xi Jinping attended a meeting to commend role models in Chinas fight against the COVID epidemic on Tuesday. He?presented medals to four outstanding individuals, and delivered a speech at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing.?Here are some highlights from his address. Heroic feat ?China has achieved another heroic feat in humankinds fight against disease. ?The Communist Party of China Central Committee had adopted extraordinary measures to tackle the extraordinary incident of COVID epidemic.?China had effectively curbed the spread of the COVID epidemic and protected peoples lives and health to the greatest extent.  The Chinese people put up a strong defense with unity to contain the COVID epidemic. ?Millions of medical workers fought the COVID epidemic at the front line across the country.?Nearly half of the medical staff involved in the countrys fight against COVID are young people no more than  years old. ?Chinese economy is steadily turning for the better as the country has coordinated epidemic containment with economic growth after the sudden outbreak of COVID. China has become the first major economy to return to growth since the COVID pandemic, and has taken the lead in the world in both epidemic control and economic recovery.  The major strategic achievement gained from Chinas fight against COVID fully demonstrated the remarkable advantages of the leadership of the Communist Party of China CPC and socialism. A meeting commending role models in the countrys fight against the COVID epidemic is held at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing, Sept , .  Global fight ?China has been working together with other countries of the world, and contributed its wisdom and strength to the global fight against the COVID pandemic. ?China has offered assistance to the international community in fighting the COVID pandemic to the best of its ability, despite the tremendous pressure in domestic epidemic control. ?China exported . billion masks, . billion protective suits and , ventilators to support the global fight against COVID between March  and Sept . ?China has helped save a great number of lives from COVID around the world with concrete actions. Spirit of combating COVID  Chinas spirit of combating the COVID epidemic features putting peoples lives first, nationwide solidarity, sacrifice, respecting science, and a sense of mission for humanity. ?Chinas treatment method of combining traditional Chinese medicine TCM and Western medicine for COVID has been learned and used by many countries. ?China had launched the most intensive and wideranging emergency humanitarian assistance actions since the founding of New China. Zhong Nanshan, recipient of the Medal of the Republic, arrives at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing, Sept , .  Experience in six areas  The strong leadership of the Communist Party of China CPC is the most reliable backbone for Chinese people in times of trouble.  The outstanding advantage of socialism with Chinese characteristics is the fundamental guarantee for resisting risks and challenges, and enhancing the capacity of national governance.  The unyielding will of the Chinese people is the source of power for overcoming all hardships and obstacles on the way forward.  The great struggle against coronavirus has once again proven that strong national strength accumulated since the founding of the Peoples Republic of China has laid a solid ground for the country to take any turbulent tide with composure. ?Chinas battle against COVID has demonstrated the power of core socialist values and fine traditional Chinese culture, which provides great motivation and helps build consensus as well as pool resources.  The extensive appeal of building a community with a shared future for humanity is the right way for the mankind to overcome common challenges and build a more prosperous and better world. Zhang Boli,?recipient of the?national honorary title, the Peoples Hero,?arrives at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing, Sept , .  Plans for future  Striving for full victory in fight against COVID  Ensuring completing building of moderately prosperous society in all respects  Strengthening institutional guarantee for safeguarding the peoples lives and health.  Joint efforts with the global community to cope with growing global challenges?  China will continue to play the role of being the largest supplier of global antiepidemic materials.?  China will continue to support the World Health Organization in playing a leading role in the global fight against the COVID pandemic.  China will continue to advance economic globalization, steadfastly uphold the multilateral trading system, and join other countries in endeavoring to restore global economic prosperity at an early date.