Indias virus count surges into No  spot amid easing of curbs
2020/9/8 0:00
NEW DELHIIndia on Monday overtook Brazil as the country with the secondhighest number of confirmed coronavirus cases. Its elevation to behind only the United States in the infections count came as metro train lines reopened in cities in a bid to boost the South Asian nations battered economy. With its nationwide tally of . million, India is adding more cases each day than any other country this year since the outbreak of the pandemic. As of Monday, , cases were recorded, along with , deaths. Despite logging over  million new cases in the past month and the virus spreading through the countrys smaller towns and villages, the Indian government has continued relaxing restrictions to try to resuscitate the economy. Gross domestic product in India has shrunk faster than in any other major nation, plunging nearly  percent in the last quarter. On Monday, the Delhi Metroa rapid transit system that serves Indias sprawling capital New Delhi and adjoining areasresumed operations after five months of shutdown. Authorities imposed strict rules on passengers, with masks, social distancing and temperature checks mandatory. Indias economic pain dates to the demonetization of the nations currency in  and a hasty rollout of a goods and services tax the next year. But the harsh coronavirus lockdown that started on March  further exacerbated the countrys economic woes. Experts said there is no sign of a peak as cases surge in the secondmost populous country, both in major cities such as New Delhi and the financial hub of Mumbai, and rural areas that have limited access to health services. Its becoming a double burden now, said Rajib Dasgupta, a professor of community health at the Jawaharlal Nehru University in the capital. The urban areas are not slowing down and rural areas are picking up. Globally, COVID deaths surpassed , on Sunday, with more than ,, cases, according to a tally from Johns Hopkins University in the United States. In Brazil, despite warnings and surging numbers of confirmed cases, quarantineweary Brazilians headed to beaches and other recreational spots for the Independence Day holiday weekend. The health ministry reported that , cases of infection were detected in the latest hour period, bringing the total number of cases since the start of the pandemic to ,,. Nearly , vehicles took the highway that connects Sao Paulo, the largest city in South America, with beaches, according to the highway administration.  cities, towns hit In Israel, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu on Sunday announced curfews on some  cities and towns hit hard by the coronavirus, but backed away from reported recommendations for full lockdowns after an uproar by politically powerful religious politicians. The curfews was due to go into effect on Monday at  pm and last until  am. It was not known how long they will remain in place. People will not be allowed to venture more than  meters from their homes, and nonessential businesses will have to close. Netanyahu also said educational institutions would be closed with the exception of special education centers, and gatherings limited to  people in closed spaces and  outdoors. Overall, Israel has recorded nearly , cases of the virus. Palestine on Sunday reported four new fatalities from the virus, raising the death toll in the Palestinian territories to .  new COVID cases were recorded in the West Bank, East Jerusalem and the Gaza Strip, raising the total number to ,, said Health Minister Mai alKaila. Palestine has , active cases. In Europe, Britain recorded its highest daily number of new cases since May, with , infections announced on Sunday. The increased number of cases comes as British schoolchildren return to class, a milestone in the resumption of normal life. Health Secretary Matt Hancock said on Monday that the rise is concerning, but the government was still in control of the pandemic. The rise in the number of cases weve seen in the last few days is largely among younger people,Hancock said. Asked if the government had lost control, he said No, but the whole country needs to follow the social distancing because we can only do this as a whole society. Xinhua  Agencies A Palestinian pupil wears a mask at a United Nationsrun school in Ramallah on Sunday as schools gradually reopen amid the coronavirus outbreak. MOHAMAD TOROKMANREUTERS ? ?