Chronicle of Xis leadership in Chinas war against coronavirus
2020/9/7 21:39
President Xi Jinping learns about Huoshenshan Hospitals operations, treatment of patients, protection for medical workers and scientific research after arriving in Wuhan, March , .  BEIJING  On March , , at Huoshenshan Hospital in Wuhan, President Xi Jinping  wearing a mask  spoke to a patient lying in bed by video link. What you should do now is to stay confident. We all should be confident that we will win this war, Xi said. Victory for Wuhan, victory for Hubei, and victory for China! Xi, also general secretary of the Communist Party of China CPC Central Committee and chairman of the Central Military Commission, appeared at a critical place  Wuhan, the Chinese city hit hardest by the COVID outbreak at the time. Eight days after Xis visit, the city reported no new cases for the first time. On April , Wuhan hospitals cleared all COVID cases. Over the past sevenplus months, China  the worlds most populous nation  has gone through an extraordinary time. More than , Chinese were infected by the virus and about , people lost their lives. Epidemic control became the countrys top priority. During the Spring Festival holiday starting in late January, hundreds of millions of people abandoned their holiday plans. They stayed at home for weeks in a row. Cities were locked down, businesses were closed and public gatherings were canceled. The annual sessions of the national legislature and the national political advisory body  a key event on the countrys political calendar known as the two sessions  were postponed for the first time due to a public health emergency. Xi said the epidemic was the fastest spreading, most extensive and most challenging public health emergency the country had encountered since the founding of the Peoples Republic of China in . Life is of paramount importance, Xi said. He launched a peoples war and personally took charge of the response, marshaling national resources to fight the invisible enemy. In little more than a month, the rising spread of the virus was contained in around two months, the daily increase in domestic coronavirus cases fell to single digits and in approximately three months, a decisive victory was secured in the battle to defend Hubei province and its capital city of Wuhan  a major achievement of strategic importance in the nationwide fight against COVID. Though there were a handful of sporadic outbreaks over the past few months, the Chinese government  with its experience and targeted measures  managed to break the transmission routes quickly. From a global perspective, China was among the first countries to resume work and reopen schools and businesses. The country is now racing against the clock to win its antipoverty fight and achieve a moderately prosperous society in all respects. President Xi Jinping inspects the Beijing Ditan Hospital, a designated institution treating the COVID patients in Beijing, Feb , .  LEADERSHIP IN TIMES OF CRISIS The COVID epidemic changed Xis schedule. People familiar with his work said Xi dedicated himself to leading epidemic control efforts and gave instructions every day at the height of the outbreak. Xi devised a set of general principles to guide the fight against the virus, emphasizing remaining confident, coming together in solidarity, adopting a sciencebased approach and taking targeted measures. On Jan , when Xi chaired a meeting of the Standing Committee of the Political Bureau of the CPC Central Committee, he underlined the importance of properly handling the epidemic  known then as an epidemic of pneumonia of unknown cause. On Jan , Xi gave important instructions on fighting the epidemic, emphasizing that peoples lives and health must come first and resolute efforts should be made to stem the spread of the virus. He also called for the prompt release of information on the epidemic and enhanced international cooperation. On Jan , Xi ordered the immediate imposition of tight restrictions on the movement of people and channels of exit in Hubei and Wuhan. Xi said making the decision required enormous political courage. But time calls for resolute action. Otherwise, there would be trouble, he said. On Jan , Wuhan suspended all urban public transportation and cut off outbound flights and trains. Putting a megacity with over  million residents under lockdown was unprecedented, but crucial. Since the th CPC National Congress in , Xi has repeatedly stressed that cadres must have a strong sense of responsibility. Stay loyal to the Party, strive for peoples wellbeing, work hard... These are the consistent tenets upheld in various Party endeavors. Xi did not sleep well on Chinese New Years Eve as he shouldered the heavy responsibility to fight the epidemic. The next day, Jan , Xi convened a meeting of the Standing Committee of the Political Bureau of the CPC Central Committee on epidemic control. He told his six colleagues on the standing committee that the situation was pressing and they needed to study the issue together. Xi took the lead in making a donation to support epidemic control efforts. He said the principle of early detection, reporting, quarantine and treatment must be strictly observed. And he called for saving lives by raising admission and cure rates and lowering infection and fatality rates. Xi made specific response demands at different stages of the battle. Since the start of the outbreak, he has chaired a great number of highlevel meetings to devise containment measures. These included  meetings of the Standing Committee of the Political Bureau of the CPC Central Committee, four meetings of the Political Bureau of the CPC Central Committee, and leadership meetings on lawbased governance, cyberspace affairs, foreign affairs and the deepening of reform amid the epidemic. He also instructed the military to join the fight and chaired a series of symposiums, including one with nonCPC members to hear their suggestions and another with experts on building a strong public health system. He convened large teleconferences, one of which was the largest held in China since . It was attended by , officials from central leadership down to countylevel units across the country. Xi also carried out nine domestic inspections to guide epidemic control, economic development and other work two in Beijing, one in Wuhan and the other six in Zhejiang, Shaanxi, Shanxi, Jilin and Anhui provinces, as well as Ningxia Hui autonomous region. At the postponed two sessions in late May, Xi joined political advisors and lawmakers in four group discussions to plan epidemic control and economic development measures. World Health Organization WHO DirectorGeneral Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said when he was in Beijing, he saw President Xi lead Chinas efforts to mobilize the government and society and to make the response every citizens business. Political observer Eric Li wrote in an article posted on the website of Foreign Policy, a US magazine, that the decision to lock down Wuhan and Hubei turned out to be one that saved the nation from a devastating catastrophe. Namibian President Hage Geingob said Xi has led the Chinese people in waging an effective fight against COVID, which has demonstrated outstanding leadership and been highly appreciated by countries around the world, including those from Africa. In a letter to Xi,  CEOs of the Global CEO Council said China, under Xis strong leadership, has rapidly contained the coronavirus epidemic, taken the lead in resuming work and production, and played a positive role in supporting the global COVID fight and maintaining world economic stability. President Xi Jinping speaks at Huoshenshan Hospital in Wuhan, March , .  INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHS GIVEN FULL PLAY Xi stressed that it is imperative to coordinate national response measures to fight the outbreak, adding that concentrating strength to accomplish big tasks is an advantage of Chinas socialist system. Support was summoned from across the nation. All jumped into action after Xi, as the leadership core of the CPC Central Committee and the Party, issued his orders. A central leading group on the epidemic response was set up on Jan . Vice Premier Sun Chunlan, a member of the Political Bureau of the CPC Central Committee, led a central guiding group to oversee work on the ground in Hubei for three months. Whatever situations it encounters or whatever needs it has, the group can directly phone me, said Xi, who made more than  instructions to the group. Under Xis leadership, more than  million CPC members and . million grassroots Party organizations joined the battle. The general secretary says the interests of the people come above all else. We, as Party members, must be at the forefront, said Xia Jian, secretary of a Party branch at Zhongnan Hospital of Wuhan University. Some lost their lives after they were infected on the front line while attending to patients. Liu Zhiming, president of Wuchang Hospital, and Li Wenliang, an ophthalmologist at the Central Hospital of Wuhan, were among the fallen heroes honored as martyrs, a title given to citizens who bravely sacrifice their lives for the nation and the people. Employees who are Party members also took the lead to work around the clock in fields closely connected with epidemic control such as building hospitals and producing masks. Heeding Xis order, the military sent its first group of medics to Wuhan on Chinese New Years Eve. In total, three groups involving over , service personnel were dispatched. Supplies were airlifted to Wuhan by large transport aircraft. China mobilized the best doctors, the most advanced equipment and the most needed resources to assist the allout fight against the virus in Hubei and Wuhan, with all treatment expenses covered by the government, Xi said during the two sessions. Robert Kuhn, a leading US scholar on China studies and chairman of the Kuhn Foundation, described Chinas mobilization as unprecedented in global health history. Across China, over , medical workers, including academicians and top experts, were sent to Hubei. They endured tremendous fatigue and stress, and paid a heavy price. More than , medical workers were infected, and scores died in the line of duty. In Wuhan,  exhibition halls and sports venues were converted into makeshift hospitals. Dozens of hospitals were repurposed. More than  venues were used for quarantine sites. All these measures helped add about , beds on a daily basis, easing the strain on hospital beds in the city. The key learning from China is speed, said Canadian epidemiologist Bruce Aylward, who led a team of WHOorganized international experts to China for a nineday joint mission on COVID in February. Outside the hardhit zone, the manufacturing of medical supplies was cranked up and green passages were opened. In a short time, everything from masks to life support equipment was rushed to the front line. At the height of the outbreak, Hubei accumulated more than  extracorporeal membrane oxygenation ECMO machines, about a quarter of the nations total of these sophisticated life support systems. Xi ordered leveraging the countrys institutional strength of pairing support. Nineteen provincial regions were paired with  cities and prefectures in Hubei to help them contain the outbreak. Xi said science and technology hold the key to eventually prevailing over the outbreak. He demanded research to be fasttracked to solve key issues while meeting all safety standards. Universities, research institutes and businesses across the country joined forces to develop vaccines, medicines and treatment. A vaccine developed by Chinese researchers was the worlds first to enter phasetwo clinical trials on April . By July , nine enterprises in China had started clinical trials of COVID vaccines. The emergency use of COVID vaccines has also started. In a country with a huge population of . billion, people acted orderly they took the Party and governments advice seriously, staying at home for weeks and practicing social distancing. Over  million community workers were mobilized to regularly disinfect public spaces, check body temperatures, and register visitors and take them to quarantine if necessary. Grid management and neighborhood watches were initiated in some cities to detect and isolate suspected cases and their close contacts as soon as possible. Many volunteers showed up to help. Communities have made huge contributions in this epidemic response, Xi told community workers during a treeplanting activity in Beijing. Looking forward, there are still formidable tasks ahead. Chinas approach, truly mobilizing all of government and all of society, is estimated to have averted hundreds of thousands of COVID cases, according to a report by the WHOChina Joint Mission on COVID. International medical journal The Lancet said there are important lessons that presidents and prime ministers can learn from Chinas experience, highlighting the role of public health measures, such as surveillance and exhaustive contact tracing, in delaying the spread of infection. Chinas COVID fight offers three important pieces of experience to the world talk to the public, slow the transmission of the disease, and prepare health systems for a spike in demand, according to the Londonbased magazine The Economist. President Xi Jinping inspects the scientific research on COVID as well as the diagnosis and treatment of the disease in his visit to two institutes in Beijing, March , .  PEOPLE FIRST In essence, what Xi commands is a peoples war. By and large, it is a war waged by the people and for the people, embodying the fundamental purpose of the CPC, the worlds largest ruling political party  to serve the people wholeheartedly. People is the most prominent recurring word in the meetings he chaired and the instructions he issued. Xi has stressed putting peoples lives and health first and placing their interests above anything else. He demanded closely relying on the people to win the war. He also said all prevention and control measures of the CPC Central Committee were taken with the primary consideration of preventing infections among the people and saving lives. China has made COVID treatment free, pledging to treat every patient and leave no one unattended. The oldest COVID patient saved in China is  years old. We saved lives at all costs. We never gave up no matter how old a patient was or how serious their condition was, Xi said. Jiao Yahui, an official with the National Health Commission, said the elderly were among the most difficult to treat and required more medical resources than others. But China has given every patient equal treatment, in disregard of their age or wealth, she said, adding that this reflects the traditional Chinese virtues Xi has emphasized that put people first in state governance. Jiao said China has far fewer COVID cases and deaths than major developed nations in Europe and North America. Xi developed close ties to the people early in life. At , he went to the village of Liangjiahe in Shaanxi province, and spent seven years there, working and living with peasants on the Loess Plateau. Meeting the press after the th CPC National Congress, Xi said, Peoples aspirations for a better life are what we should fight for. Xi has made peoples health a major focus. Not long after he was elected general secretary of the CPC Central Committee in , he traveled to a village clinic to learn about the new rural cooperative medical system. He has repeatedly stressed that without good health for all, there would be no moderately prosperous society in all respects. On Feb , when the cumulative number of confirmed COVID cases in Beijing reached , Xi put on his mask and visited a residential community, a hospital and a district disease prevention and control center. He held out his wrist to have his body temperature checked upon entering every location. Xi chatted with residents in a street, asking them about the prices of vegetables. Lets not shake hands at this unusual time, Xi said. We must have confidence that we can prevail over the epidemic. We absolutely can beat it, the residents responded. A month later, Xi visited a residential community in Wuhan. At this time, daily new confirmed cases on the mainland had dropped to , but Wuhan still had , COVID patients. The task of containment remained arduous. Walking between apartment blocks, Xi looked up and waved to residents under lockdown who stuck out their heads from their windows and balconies to greet him. Lets keep it up! Hold on for a little longer! Xi said. Speaking at a symposium in Wuhan, he made a special request for officials to supply more fish, a favorite food of Wuhan people. Andrey Ostrovsky, deputy director of the Institute of Far Eastern Studies at the Russian Academy of Sciences, said Xis Wuhan inspection was a clear testament to the Partys principle of putting peoples lives and health first. Xi cares deeply about medical workers. He demanded maximum efforts to reduce the loss of life and instructed cadres to relieve medical workers stress, provide for their basic needs and give them enough rest and encouragement. At Huoshenshan Hospital, Xi spoke to fully gowned doctors by video link. I cant see your whole faces as you are all wearing protective gowns and masks. But in my heart, you are the most beloved people, he said. Chen Jing, a lead nurse of the hospitals intensive care unit, said she was touched by Xis visit and felt stronger than ever with the leadership and people firmly standing by medical workers. On International Workers Day, Xi wrote to the staff of a household service company in central China. He lauded a wide range of working people from sanitation workers, deliverymen to workers producing antiepidemic supplies. Their hard work and contributions, Xi said, had gathered tremendous strength to prevail over the epidemic. On International Nurses Day, Xi applauded nurses who braved the danger to save lives during the COVID fight. On Chinas Doctors Day, Xi again lauded medical workers who fought tenaciously against the virus on the front line. Xi was concerned about Chinese citizens safety abroad and asked embassies, consulates, overseas Chinese associations and student unions to ramp up support. The government arranged flights to bring back Chinese students and other people in need from Iran, Italy, Britain and other countries. Cadres, Xi said, must shoulder their responsibilities for the people. Those who disobey orders, be selfserving, fail to take on responsibilities or have undesirable conduct will be punished. In serious cases, the supervisors of wrongdoers will be held accountable too, Xi said. On April , Xi led the nation of . billion to observe three minutes of silence for the lives lost to the coronavirus. This years two sessions also opened with the mourning of the fallen, once again demonstrating the peoplefirst spirit. President Xi Jinping delivers a speech via video link on May  in Beijing at the opening of the rd session of the World Health Assembly.  GLOBAL FIGHT The virus respects no borders. From a luxurious cruise ship docking in Japan to a ski resort in the French Alps, from Casablancas ancient city to downtown Manhattan and the Amazon rainforest, the pandemic has spread all over the world. By Sept , global COVID cases had exceeded  million in more than  countries and regions, leaving over , people dead, according to the WHO tally. Xi said public health security is a common challenge for humanity, which requires joint efforts from all countries. This is in the spirit of building a community with a shared future for humanity, a vision put forward by Xi in . Over the past seven years, he has been promoting the vision on the international stage. Amid the global antivirus fight, the importance of this vision has been made clear to all. On Jan , Chinese scientists isolated the first novel coronavirus strain. On Jan?, the WHO acknowledged receiving the coronavirus full genome sequence from China. Tedros said China identified the pathogen in record time and shared the genetic sequence with the WHO and other countries. This bought invaluable time for other regions around the world to gear up their response. China also informed the United States of the outbreak in early January. A US virus hunter came to China in late January to help battle the epidemic. When China was bearing the full brunt of COVIDs wrath, leaders of over  countries and  international and regional organizations expressed their support. A total of  countries and  international organizations provided assistance. China fought the virus with openness and transparency as press conferences were held daily, sometimes several times a day, starting from Jan . Amid the epidemic, Xi met with Tedros, Cambodian Prime Minister Samdech Techo Hun Sen, Mongolian President Khaltmaa Battulga, and Pakistani President Arif Alvi in Beijing. Through video link, Xi met with European Council President Charles Michel and European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen. Xi wrote back to Tedros and Bill Gates and exchanged letters with Argentine President Alberto Fernandez, Peruvian President Martin Vizcarra, Cambodian Prime Minister Samdech Techo Hun Sen and Mongolian Prime Minister Ukhnaa Khurelsukh. Xi exchanged verbal messages with Kim Jong Un, chairman of the Workers Party of Korea and chairman of the State Affairs Commission of the Democratic Peoples Republic of Korea. Xi sent a verbal message to Pakistani President Arif Alvi and exchanged messages with Bounnhang Vorachith, general secretary of the Lao Peoples Revolutionary Party Central Committee and president of Laos. Xi also sent a congratulatory letter to the ninth ministerial meeting of the ChinaArab States Cooperation Forum, urging efforts to advance cooperation in various fields including the pandemic response. Since the start of the COVID outbreak, Xi has conducted unprecedented telephone diplomacy, having more than  phone conversations with over  foreign leaders. These included those from Western countries such as British Prime Minister Boris Johnson and French President Emmanuel Macron those from emergingmarket countries  Russian President Vladimir Putin and South African President Cyril Ramaphosa and those from developing countries like Pakistani Prime Minister Imran Khan, Ethiopian Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed Ali and Cuban President Miguel DiazCanel. In the talks, Xi said this global public health emergency has driven home the urgent need to build a community with a shared future for humanity. It is only by working together that countries around the world can overcome the pandemic, he said. As the virus spread, some countries and regions were hit particularly hard. Xi sent messages to their leaders, expressing sympathy. Unity is strength Building a community of health for all  these have been his messages to the world. In late March, at an extraordinary G summit held via video link, Xi called for resolutely fighting an allout global war against the COVID outbreak, devising a collective response for control and treatment at the international level, supporting international organizations and enhancing international macroeconomic policy coordination to prevent a recession. Kuhn, the US scholar, said Xis proposals to enable humanity as a whole to win the battle against this major infectious disease give meaning to the vision of an international community with a shared future. COVID has become the worst global public health incident since the end of World War II. In May, at the World Health Assemblys opening held via video link, Xi mourned for every life lost to COVID and expressed condolences to the bereaved families. He announced Chinas five measures to support the global COVID fight. Xi said China will make its COVID vaccine a global public good when available, contributing to vaccine accessibility and affordability in developing countries. In June, Xi chaired an extraordinary ChinaAfrica summit on solidarity against COVID via video conference and called for staying committed to fighting COVID together, enhancing ChinaAfrica cooperation, upholding multilateralism and taking ChinaAfrica friendship forward. We oppose the politicization and stigmatization of COVID, and we oppose racial discrimination and ideological bias. We stand firm for equity and justice in the world, Xi said. Whether it is taming the virus or achieving economic recovery, the world cannot succeed without solidarity, cooperation and multilateralism, Xi said in a message to a highlevel video conference on Belt and Road international cooperation. The right approach to tackling global crises and realizing longterm development is through greater connectivity, openness and inclusiveness. This is where Belt and Road international cooperation can make a big difference, he said. At the start of the outbreak, China helped countries like the United States and Japan evacuate their nationals from Wuhan. As the pandemic spread, China donated funds to the WHO totaling  million and sent  medical expert teams to  countries from late February to the end of August. The Chinese government has sent muchneeded medical supplies to over  countries and international organizations and facilitated foreign procurement in China. Nongovernmental organizations and companies also gave a helping hand. Hassan Ahmadian, assistant professor of Middle East and North Africa studies at the University of Tehran, said Chinas donations and exchange of expertise with affected countries, including Iran, stand out not only as a humanitarian gesture but also as responsible behavior on the part of a major country. China has shared technical documents on treatment protocols and containment strategies with  countries and over  international and regional organizations. Beginning in March, Chinese experts held almost daily video conferences with their foreign peers. Chinas pioneering use of makeshift hospitals has also been adopted around the world, including in New Yorks iconic Central Park. Xi had four phone calls with Putin in as many months. Putin said by providing timely assistance to other countries affected by COVID, China has set an example for the international community and responded, loud and clear, to the provocation and stigmatization by some country. Putin also said Russia will stand firmly by Chinas side. President Xi Jinping makes video calls to hospitals in Wuhan receiving patients in severe condition and hears reports from the central guiding team at the Beijing Ditan Hospital in Beijing, Feb , .  RISE ABOVE TRIALS AND TRIBULATIONS Xi said national rejuvenation would not come easy and great struggles must be fought to realize the great dream. The epidemic brought severe challenges to the worlds largest developing country, but showed the importance of following its own path and adhering to reform and opening up. Initially, medical materials were in short supply and weak links in hospital protection led to infections among health workers. Practices of bureaucratism and formalities for formalities sake were exposed at local levels. While fighting the coronavirus as the most pressing task, Xi pushed for building institutions with a longterm impact. Last year, the fourth plenary session of the th CPC Central Committee adopted a decision on institution building. Xi said China must use the strength of its institutions to cope with risks and challenges. The epidemic was a big test for Chinas system and capacity for governance, Xi said bluntly. We must draw experience and learn our lessons. He said the exposed shortcomings told of the need to improve the national emergency management system and boost the nations ability to handle urgent and challenging tasks. In February, Xi demanded efforts to strengthen public health legislation, reform the disease prevention and control system, and improve public health services when he chaired a meeting of the Central Commission for Comprehensively Deepening Reform. Two months later, the commissions meeting adopted documents on the provision of public health emergency supplies and on oversight of medical insurance funds. During the two sessions, when joining deliberations with lawmakers from Hubei, Xi stressed fortifying the public health protection network. Several priorities were in the spotlight reform the disease prevention and control system boost epidemic monitoring, early warning and emergency response capacity advance the treatment system for major epidemics improve public health emergency laws and regulations and carry out patriotic public health campaigns. The COVID pandemic is dealing a heavy blow to the world economy. More than four out of every five people in the global workforce of . billion have been affected by full or partial workplace closures, according to a report by the International Labour Organization in early April. Xi told a symposium on economic and social work that the pandemic will accelerate the profound changes the world is undergoing, changes unseen in a century. The Chinese economy shrank . percent in the first quarter. On the day the statistics were released, Xi chaired a leadership meeting that pointed out the first quarter of  was extremely unusual. The sudden COVID outbreak had an unprecedented impact on Chinas economic and social development. On dealing with the impact on the economy, Xi said We must stay confident and not be frightened by problems and difficulties. I have said many times that China is a big country with enormous resilience, huge potential and great flexibility in development, he added. Xi said at the two sessions that China has set no specific target for economic growth this year as the sudden COVID outbreak has created challenges to completing the tasks in this final year of the th FiveYear Plan. He emphasized the importance of maintaining stable and sound economic performance in the long run, and devised a series of strategic measures including the creation of a new development pattern in which domestic and foreign markets boost each other, with the domestic market as the mainstay. Since early February, Xi has been giving instructions on stabilizing the economy. From March to August, he visited villages, rural families and businesses on inspection tours to coordinate regular epidemic control with economic and social development. In Zhejiang province, Xi chatted with workers by an assembly line, asking if their return to work had gone smoothly, particularly if they had received their paychecks. He demanded the prices of daily necessities and the income of farmers remain stable. In Shaanxi province, he encouraged companies to overcome the negative impact of COVID and actively expand markets. In the village of Jinmi, Xi lauded the local black fungus industry. This went viral online, and  million people visited the ecommerce sites, where over  tonnes of black fungus were sold out in quick succession. In Shanxi province, Xi called on businesses to make up for lost time with the proper safety precautions in place. In Ningxia Hui autonomous region, he said no ethnic minority group should be left behind in building a moderately prosperous society in all respects. He also urged efforts to maintain epidemic control measures while accelerating the return to normalcy in peoples daily lives. In Jilin province, Xi took a particular interest in the employment of college graduates and migrant workers and ordered Party committees and governments at all levels to actively create favorable conditions for college graduates to find jobs. The Chinese economy bounced back to growth in the second quarter of , expanding . percent year on year. Major indicators returned to growth, economic performance steadily recovered and market expectations were positive in general. Foreign direct investment into the Chinese mainland, in actual use, also grew . percent year on year in the second quarter, indicating foreign investors growing confidence in the Chinese market. By midApril, over  percent of major industrial enterprises in China had reopened. They included foreign compan