An opportunity to seize
2021/9/8 7:52
LONDONThe gates had only just opened at Londons Oval cricket ground before the fourth day of the fourth Test between England and India on Sunday but a frenzied marketplace was already active. While fans thronged pubs and cafes in the morning sunshine, an informal economy of ticket touts and unofficial merchandise sellers scrambled to ply their trade on the streets. Touts buy as many tickets as they can get their hands on and resell them above face value to supporters desperate to watch their sporting heroes. They are also a common sight outside Londons major soccer clubsTottenham, Arsenal, West Ham and Chelseaon match days. And with stadium capacity limits scrapped in England in July, touts could again feast on high takings after a pandemicinduced famine while matches were played behind closed doors. Ive been doing this for  years. There was no work last year because of COVID, a bespectacled tout told AFP before continuing to prowl around the ground. English crickets governing body warns against purchasing tickets from touts as invalid duplicates and forgeries can leave fans stranded outside venues and out of pocket. There are also concerns that the astronomical cost of some tickets will price people out of cricket and make the game less accessible. Vermin Groups of mostly middleaged men loitered outside the two subway stations near the groundOval and Vauxhallin south London offering to buy or sell, rhythmically repeating their coded cry of any spare tickets to passersby. Many were dressed to blend into the shadows of sports black market, wearing gray flat caps and large, dark coats while puffing on cigarettes. Three India fans handed over wads of cash to a tout sporting an England cricket cap, while another tout showered a potential customer with obscenities after the transaction was abandoned. Theyre vermin. They just get in peoples faces and I dislike them intensely, teacher Natalie Smith, , told AFP. One tout, clutching a sheaf of tickets, even advertised his wares in an Indian language to appeal to his target market. Another seller offered his tickets to three fans for  pounds  each, even though the cost of tickets started at  pounds  on official websites. I find them touts thoroughly irritating. Theyre a nuisance and can be intimidating, said England supporter Peter Norman, a yearold pensioner. They belong to a time which I thought had passed with the advance of technology. Its particularly annoying when you know a lot of tickets have been bought up deliberately for resale to toutsthat is just irritating. Suez impact Street merchandise vendors hawked flags, shirts, hats and other items in alleys and driveways to fans looking for bargains. Ahmed Shakir, , has supplemented his wages as a shop cashier in this way for  years and enjoyed the higher turnover achieved on the weekend. Most Indian people spend money. England fans dont buy muchthey only drink, he told AFP. When there are sports, we make something out of it. If there are no sports, then it is really hard. A cricketloving local resident known as Amazing Grace, , used the front drive of an acquaintances south London home to sell face masks, hand sanitizer and merchandise, and in turn used the profits to buy tickets. But the knockon impact of the blockage of the Suez Canal by a container ship in March is still leading to a shortage of supplies and has forced her to increase prices, with the stock mainly imported from India, China and Malaysia. The blockade is going to get worse. We dont have hundreds of stuff all the time, we dont gain by it, she said. AFP Spectators enjoy the action at The Oval cricket ground in London during the fourth Test between England and India on Sunday. Fans have been allowed to return to stadiums in Britain following the easing of COVID restrictions in July. AFP