HK opposition camps selfish acts disregard public health
2020/9/7 14:21
Residents wearing face masks wait in to take COVID tests in Cheung Sha Wan, Hong Kong, Sept , .? PARKER ZHENG  CHINA DAILY Different sectors of Hong Kong on Sunday slammed the opposition camps attempts to wreck the citys antipandemic efforts by inciting an illegal protest, while the city reported  new COVID cases. As of  pm of Sunday, police had arrested at least  people for their roles in an unauthorized assembly in Kowloon, including one female being held for breaching the National Security Law by chanting Hong Kong independence slogans, and resisting and obstructing a police officer in Yau Ma Tei. The illegal assembly was held after some people heeded online calls to take to the streets and protest the governments decision to postpone the Legislative Council election for one year. The original election day was Sunday, Sept . Some radical protesters blocked roads and hurled water bottles and debris at police officers. Hours after the protest, the Hong Kong government issued a statement condemning the illegal acts as selfish. The unlawful assembly not only violated the social distancing restrictions but increased the risk of virus transmission and imposed threats to public health, the statement reads. The Liaison Office of the Central Peoples Government in the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region on Sunday said it firmly supports the HKSAR government to safeguard the citys stability, stressing there should be zero tolerance for crimes violating the citys National Security Law. A spokesman for the office said the illegal act was a provocation to the relevant laws, and showed a complete disregard for local residents health. Lawmaker Priscilla Leung Meifun on Sunday said the protest organizers were irresponsible as they ignored public health interests. The activity was held as the city hasnt entirely beaten back the third wave of COVID infections, which clearly shows they organizers are inconsiderate and attempting to destroy the city, Leung said. Some opposition politicians on Sunday also took to the streets claiming they were against the governmentproposed health code system, a project designed to ease travel to the Chinese mainland and Macao after Hong Kong brings the pandemic under control. The government reiterated that the purpose of such a system is to resume economic activities with the Chinese mainland and Macao, noting the system will be processed without any tracking functions and residents can apply to use it on a voluntary basis. David Wong Yaukar, permanent honorary president of the Chinese Manufacturers Association of Hong Kong, said the health code system, together with the ongoing citywide free virus testing program are necessary factors that will enable Hong Kong to resume business activities and restore normalcy for the local economy. Wong pointed out that the only purpose of these opposition and smear tactics is to raise social discontent, which is regarded as political capital by the opposition camp. Chief Secretary for Administration Matthew Cheung Kinchung, in his blog posted on Sunday, said any attempt to smear the governments antipandemic efforts surely will get nowhere.