The world in photos Aug   Sept
2020/9/7 13:16
Here are some of the most striking images taken from around the world over the past week. Giant panda twins Meng Xiang and Meng Yuan play with their birthday cake at Berlin Zoo in Berlin, Aug , . The twins, the firstever twin giant pandas born in Germany, celebrated their first birthday at the zoo.  A man kisses his son while posing for a souvenir photo with the Eiffel Tower in the background Paris, Sept , . France has confirmed , COVID cases over the past  hours, a figure comparable to the level of the day before ,, the countrys public health agency announced on Thursday.  A satellite image shows the White Nile Bridge and Tuti Island after heavy floods swept through Khartoum, Sudan, Sept , .  A girl wearing a protective mask plays with bubbles at Independence Square during Malaysia Independence Day, in Kuala Lumpur, Aug , .  A Sri Lankan Navy boat sprays water on the New Diamond, a very large crude carrier chartered by Indian Oil Corp, that was carrying the equivalent of about  million barrels of oil, after a fire broke out off east coast of Sri Lanka Sept , .  A health worker in personal protective equipment rests as her colleagues test residents of a slum area during a campaign for the COVID in Mumbai, India, Sept , .  Representatives of the Tokyo Organizing Committee of the Olympic and Paralympic Games Tokyo  and the Japanese Olympic Committee look at the Olympic Flame after the display ceremony at the Japan Olympic Museum in Tokyo on Aug , . The Tokyo Olympic flame, which had been kept in a secret place since the Games was postponed, has been put on display at the Japan Olympic Museum on Monday. A simple ceremony was held by Tokyo  organizers and the Japanese Olympic Committee to mark the opening of the public display, which will run from Sept  to Nov .  Democratic US presidential nominee and former vicepresident Joe Biden arrives to discuss the effects on the US economy of the Trump administrations response to the coronavirus disease pandemic during a speech in Wilmington, Delaware, Sept , .  Dolores Park in San Francisco on Saturday features hundreds of heartshaped and circular patterns painted on the lawn to urge people who go there for leisure and entertainment to maintain social distancing.  NEWS SERVICE Man lies down on a net filled with recyclable cans at Ipanema beach, amid the COVID outbreak, in Rio de Janeiro, Sept , . Brazils total number of COVID infections surpassed , on Sept . 