Business as usual as touts return to Londons streets
2021/9/8 0:00
Kids feed alpacas in the Little Zoo in the Shanghai Chenshan Botanical Garden.  account sheshanlvyoutopnews Visitors to the Chenshan Botanical Garden at the Sheshan National Resort in Shanghais Songjiang district can meet some cute animals while admiring the greenery. The largest botanical garden in East China boasts an ideal ecological environment for plants, animals and human beings, making it a top choice for nature exploration. The Little Zoo in a camphor forest located at the exit of the rock and medicinal botanical garden is home to alpacas, pigs, peacocks, goats and other small animals. The docile alpacas are a favorite of children who like feeding these animals under the supervision of their parents. The peacocks also attract many visitors because of their vibrant plumage. The little pigs at the zoo are a micro breed and have clean and beautiful fur. The goats are just as energetic and popular with the humans. The garden is hosting an annual show of waterlilies that allows visitors to admire exhibits placed within water tanks and ponds across the garden. Visitors will also see more than  gold fish swimming in these water tanks, which have been strategically placed so that the plants are fully exposed to sunlight while visitors can appreciate them from the shade. During certain seasons, flocks of birds of different kinds will fly to the garden to forage and rest, offering a perfect opportunity for bird watching. The garden recently welcomed nearly  cattle egrets that fly over Songjiang district every August. Visitors will see the cattle egrets, and birds like whitecheeked starlings, hoopoes and white wagtails, while strolling through the grasslands and lakes in the garden. If you go  Chenhua Highway, Songjiang district, Shanghai. Visitors have to make reservations on the official WeChat account or call . A valid ID must be presented to be admitted. Masks must be worn at all times when on the premises. Gold fish swimming in water tanks adorned with waterlilies in the Shanghai Chenshan Botanical Garden.  account sheshanlvyoutopnews Birds on the grassland at the Shanghai Chenshan Botanical Garden.  account sheshanlvyoutopnews