Namibia health workers empower local people
2020/9/7 8:00
Dolores Park in San Francisco on Saturday featured hundreds of heartshaped and circular patterns painted on the lawn to urge people who go there for leisure and entertainment to maintain social distancing. LIU GUANGUANCHINA NEWS SERVICE As several states in the United States deal with rising cases of COVID, one state, Vermont, has bucked the trend as well as the hardest ravages of the initial pandemic. Known for its small villages, low population, rolling hills, maple syrup, autumn foliage, skiing and for being the home of the former Democratic presidential contender Senator Bernie Sanders, the Green Mountain State in New England has avoided the coronavirus toll that has hit other states, especially its neighbors New York and Massachusetts. Massachusetts to the south has had more than , coronavirus cases and more than , deaths, and New York to the west, once the epicenter of the virus in the US, has had more than , cases and more than , deaths. The US has had more than  million confirmed cases of the virus and more than , deaths. By Saturday, Vermont had had , infections and  deaths, and , people had been tested for the virus since midMarch, the state health department said. Those numbers have put a national spotlight on the state, with media coverage that has asked how it has performed so well compared with others. The states motto is Freedom and Unity, and the latter, health department officials say, is part of the answer. They also give credit to Republican Governor Phil Scott. Neighbors are concerned about neighbors, said Tracy Dolan, deputy commissioner of the state health department. They help each other out, making sure that people can get to the grocery stores. We have a good MealsonWheels program for the elderly, and there is positive peer pressure to wear masks.  Were in good shape. Residents have a high level of trust for public health experts and listen to information on TV and public radio, she said. Many are used to stocking up on supplies to cope with harsh winters. Some grow vegetables and chickens, and this discipline has helped them adapt to quarantining. Public health science Dolan also singled out strong leadership from state health officials and from the commissioner of health, Mark Levine, and praised Scott for paying attention to scienceThe governor has been really open to understanding and paying attention to public health science and has listened closely to it and has been guided by it. Preemptive action by Scott and the state health department officials and Vermont being a rural state with a low population aided the success, she said. It is the second leastpopulous state, with , people. Residents are . percent white, . percent African American, . percent Asian, . percent American Indian and  percent Latino. In May Scott said Vermont was the envy of the nation because of how it had handled the pandemic. We took a lot of steps early, and we didnt waste a lot of time, and Vermonters accepted that, he said in June, heaping praise on the states residents. And they also complied with all the measures. Scott declared a state of emergency on March  and the order was extended on Aug  to Sept . He has allowed local discretion for size limits on gatherings and sales of alcohol. Scott said that one of his most important decisions was to shut bars and restaurants before St Patricks Day. He also shut hotels and put homeless people in motels and camper vans. At the start of the pandemic in the US there had been fears that Vermonts elderly population would be ravaged by the illness. At least  in  residents is elderly, one of the countrys highest elderly populations. Months later, half of all of the states COVID cases have occurred in assistedliving facilities. Commenting on the states progress, Dolan said Early on we did assessments with the longterm care facilities to determine their infection prevention controls, talk them through any personal protective equipment issues and other outbreak protocols, and we did that early. We did that with every single longterm care facility.