Influential COVID model projects , total deaths in US by Jan
2020/9/5 11:28
Chart currently posted on the website of the Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation IHME show that over , Americans may die from the novel coronavirus by Jan , .  WASHINGTON  The updated projection of a key COVID model shows that , Americans may die from the novel coronavirus by Jan  next year. According to the new forecast released late Thursday from the Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation IHME at the University of Washington, the daily death rate in the United States, because of seasonality and declining vigilance of the public, would reach nearly , a day in December. Cumulative deaths expected by January  are , this is , deaths from now until the end of the year, said the prediction. People wearing face masks walk through the GreenWood Cemetery in the Brooklyn borough of New York, the United States, April , .  If a herd immunity strategy is pursued, namely no further government intervention is taken from now to Jan , the death toll could increase to , by Jan , according to the projection. Increasing mask use to the levels seen in Singapore would decrease the cumulative death toll to ,, or , lives saved compared to the reference scenario, according to the prediction. This would be a  percent reduction in the deaths expected from now until the end of the year. However, mask use continues to decline from a peak in early August, said the projection. Declines are notable throughout the Midwest, including some states such as Illinois and Iowa with increasing case numbers. People jog on the National Mall in Washington, DC, the United States, Aug , .  Months into the pandemic, the United States has recorded more than . million confirmed COVID cases and over , deaths by Friday afternoon, according to a tally of Johns Hopkins University. The number of reported cases peaked around , cases per day at the end of July, and has subsequently declined to about , cases per day. According to the IHME, the country is seeing increasing transmission in ten states, namely Idaho, Utah, Kansas, Oklahoma, Arkansas, Alabama, Virginia, West Virginia, Illinois and Iowa. The decline of cases in more populous states such as Texas, Florida and California has contributed to the national decline in cases, said the IHME.