Latest on the novel coronavirus outbreak
2020/9/5 11:01
Women use sewing machines to manufacture face masks to help fight the spread of the coronavirus disease COVID at the Raila Educational Centre in the Kibera slums in Nairobi, Kenya, April , .  Countries in subSaharan Africa and Central and South Asia are expected to see rises in pandemicinduced extreme poverty at greater levels than in other regions, United Nations agencies said. The three regions had already accounted for  percent of the worlds extreme poor. With the coronavirus economic disruptions, an additional  million people are projected to sink below the poverty line, according to a study by UN Women and the United Nations Development Programme released on Wednesday. Globally, the diving economies and job losses under the coronavirus pandemic are expected to push  million more people into extreme poverty  million of them will be women and girls. The global projections state that for every  poor men there will be  women in , and the number could rise to  women by . The prepandemic female poverty rate in South Asia was projected to be  percent in  its now expected to reach  percent. Before the pandemic, projections for the region suggested that by  only . percent of the worlds poor women and girls would be living in South Asia. The revised projections put that figure at . percent. The study said that womens unpaid care and domestic work burden has taken center stage during the pandemic. While governments have taken unprecedented measures to address the economic fallout, comparatively few measures have been directed at supporting families to reconcile paid and unpaid work, including care needs. We know that women take most of the responsibility for caring for the family they earn less, save less and hold much less secure jobsin fact, overall, womens employment is  percent more at risk than mens, Phumzile MlamboNgcuka, the executive director for UN Women, said in a statement. The evidence we have here of multiple inequalities is critical to drive swift, restorative policy action that puts women at the heart of pandemic recovery. Despite the grim picture, Achim Steiner, administrator for the UNDP, said more than  million women and girls could be lifted out of poverty if governments implement a comprehensive strategy aimed at improving access to education and family planning, fair and equal wages, and expanding social transfers. The study estimates the cumulative cost of eradicating global poverty at  trillion, translating to . percent of the global gross domestic product. Additionally, funding of  billion is required to close the gender poverty gap.