COVID cases found in , flights in Canada since February
2020/9/5 0:00
Dubbed a diamond studded on the Third Ring Road, Beijings central business district has evolved over a few decades from an industrial base rolling out refrigerators and motor vehicles into a business hub filled with futuristic buildings and corporate headquarters. Predominantly engaged in finance, commerce and the culture and media business, companies based in the CBD paid more than  billion yuan . billion in taxes in the first four months of this year, according to its administrative committee. According to a report published on July  by Beijing Daily, the CBD was home to  Fortune  companies, more than , foreignfunded enterprises, and the regional headquarters of  multinational corporations. After  years of rapid development, Beijings CBDnow housing more than  percent of the citys Grade A office space,  percent of its international financial organizations and  percent of its regional headquarters of multinationalsepitomizes the capitals openness and serves as an important platform for international exchange, said Lin Keqing, former executive vicemayor of Beijing, at the  Beijing CBD Forum, according to news portal Chinanews. In the  ranking of the attractiveness of global business districts commissioned by the Global Business Districts Innovation Club and published by EY and the Urban Land Institute, Beijings CBD ranks seventh. Attracting Businesses The CBD is committed to attracting businesses and investment. It continued to do so during the COVID outbreak by turning to online communication and cloudbased services. In the first quarter of ,  companies with a registered capital exceeding  million yuan and  foreigninvested companies set up shop in the CBD, according to Beijing Daily. Six enterprises, including Volvo Financial Services and braking system manufacturer KnorrBremse, located their regional headquarters in the CBD during this time. Beijings CBD is complete in terms of policy support and industrial ecosystem, Beijing Daily quoted an executive at KnorrBremse China as saying. We saw from the CBDs COVID response that it is very effective in handling emergencies, which reassures the people who work and live here. During the outbreak, the CBDs administrative committee talked with more than , key enterprises in its jurisdiction separately to learn about their needs and how they were doing in terms of work resumption, Beijing Daily reported. The committee also helped companies access protective gear such as masks and assisted some of ce buildings in getting highprecision infrared thermal imagers to ensure the speed and accuracy of temperature measurement. Serving Businesses To provide better services to businesses, the CBD has created an alliance of office building operators and is offering training sessions for building managers, according to the CBDs administrative committee. The CBD also provides tailormade service packages to more than  key enterprises such as Toyota China and Shell China. These packages include customized solutions to specific problems and green channel services. The CBDs administrative committee also visits companies on a regular basis to learn about their needs. In , the committee toured more than  companies. Since locating our operations in the CBD, we have been able to feel an improvement, an executive of Canon China told Beijing Daily. In addition to the helpful service packages and green channel services, those regular visits have solved many practical problems for us and have greatly supported our growth, the executive said. An important aspect of serving companies is serving their people. In collaboration with education consultancies, such as the Penn Wharton China Center and Yale Center Beijing, the CBD regularly holds lectures and talks for CBDbased professionals to help them stay on top of the latest developments in the economy and technology. The CBDs administrative committee is also working to increase workers access to public rental housing and jointownership homes to shorten their commute. More Than Work To avoid becoming a ghost town after work hours, Beijings CBD needs to offer more than office buildings. It should also provide residential spaces, leisure facilities and a pleasant natural environment, according to an official with the local administrative committee. Every year, the CBD hosts an array of cultural and sports events such as sculpture exhibitions, drama club performances and a corporate soccer tournament to make the area more fun, according to Beijing Daily. In June, the CBD launched a series of events themed Urban Life with Art, which included virtual gallery tours, livestreams of artists painting murals and an origami exhibition to increase public awareness of wildlife protection. In May , the CBD opened a city forest park to create a more sustainable urban environment and also to provide a convenient getaway for people working and living in the area. Going forward, the CBD seeks to put itself on a par with the best business districts around, including the City of London, Financial District in New York and Marunouchi in Tokyo. To make this happen, the CBD formulated an action plan last year for turning itself into a space for multidimensional international exchanges over three years. Contact the writer at huyuyanchinadaily.com.cn AT A GLANCE Location district in southcentral Beijing Area . sq km Permanent population . million in  GDP  billion yuan in  Internationalization The district is home to almost all the foreign embassies in China  percent of international organizations and foreign chambers of commerce and more than  percent of overseas investment companies and multinationals regional headquarters in Beijing. ? ? ? . The National Stadium, or the Birds Nest, is a symbolic legacy from the Beijing  Olympics. Its renovations in preparation for the Beijing s opening and closing ceremonies will be finished by this month. LIN ZHONGSHANFOR CHINA DAILY ? ? . The Beijing government has invested heavily in improving the water quality of local rivers. WANG XICHENGFOR CHINA DAILY ? ? . A dazzling view of Wangjing Soho, a commercial complex in Beijings Chaoyang district. YANG SHUOFOR CHINA DAILY ? ? ? ?