Concerns aired over vaccine against virus before election
2020/9/4 21:03
Changsha, capital of Hunan province, has donated more than , face masks to European cities to help them contain COVID, according to the citys foreign affairs office. The city has received letters of gratitude from more than  cities in different European countries, including Belarus, Germany and Spain. Those cities are or will become sister cities of Changsha. In August, after learning medical workers in Belarus Mogilev were in shortage of medical supplies, Changsha immediately donated , disposable surgical masks. Medical workers in Mogilev, Belarus, received medical supplies donated by Changsha. Photo provided to chinadaily.com.cn Mogilev sent a letter of gratitude to the city on Aug , saying though the two cities were , kilometers apart, the long distance cannot hinder them from developing a friendly relationship and sharing good wishes. It thanked the city for its assistance, which, in its words, was of great significance to its medical institutions in fighting against the pandemic. Changsha donated , face masks and , bags of disinfectant tissue to some German cities, including Berlin and Dusseldorf. It also provided medical supplies to some medical institutions in Netherlands, the UK, Ireland and Spain. So far, the city of Changsha and companies in the city have donated , N and surgical masks to Italian cities, including Florence, Ferrara and Turin. Medical workers in Mogilev, Belarus, received medical supplies donated by Changsha. Photo provided to chinadaily.com.cn Changsha received a letter of gratitude from Mogilev, Belarus on Aug  for its donation of medical supplies to help locals fight the pandemic. Photo provided to chinadaily.com.cn Medical workers in Dublin, Ireland received medical supplies from Changsha, Hunan province. Photo provided to chinadaily.com.cn Italian medical workers received the donations of medical supplies from Changsha, Hunan province. Photo provided to chinadaily.com.cn