Animals, plants share Chenshan Botanical Garden
2021/9/7 16:37
Malaysian workers take supplies of the CanSino COVID vaccine to Mabul Island in Sabah state on Friday. Vaccination efforts have started to reach the countrys remote islands. ANNICE LYNGETTY IMAGES Malaysia has unveiled plans to reopen the resort island of Langkawi to domestic tourists from Sept , signaling the nations resolve to gradually restore vigor to the travel sector and the wider economy. In a message posted on social media, Prime Minister Ismail Sabri Yaakob said other destinations will be reopened as soon as vaccination rates in the localities hit  percent. He expects this target to be achieved within this month. According to official data, . million Malaysians have been fully vaccinated as of Sunday. This is equivalent to nearly  percent of the national vaccination rateone of the highest in the world. Michael Jeyakumar Devaraj, coconvener of the alliance Peoples Health Forum, an alliance campaigning for healthcare reform, said maintaining a zerocase policy is no longer feasible for Malaysia as the coronavirus has spread far and wide within the country. Devaraj said the countrys financial resources and the governments competence have contributed to the success of the vaccination program. Malaysia is a high middleincome country. So we could afford to buy the vaccines unlike lowerincome countries, he said. Also, we still have a robust and geographically extensive healthcare network which has been running a comprehensive vaccination program for years. No quick end Khor Swee Kheng, an independent health policies specialist in Malaysia, welcomed the tourism reopening move, pointing out that signs indicate that COVID is not going away anytime soon. Catherine Bennett, chair of epidemiology at the School of Health and Social Development at Deakin University in Australia, said the current pandemic wave is starting to flatten out, and the high vaccination rate will support the Malaysian governments plan to reopen Langkawi and other tourist destinations. If the tourist destinations have high vaccination rates, then it is low risk to open. So, even if there are infections, the risk of serious illness is low and local facilities can cope, said Bennett, adding that the risk level will even be lower if these tourist destinations only allow the entry of fully vaccinated visitors. Malaysia has the thirdhighest number of COVID cases in Southeast Asia, with . million infections recorded as of Monday, according to the World Health Organization. Over , cases were detected on Monday alone and health authorities have cited the entry of the highly transmissible Delta variant for the recent spike in cases. Health Minister Khairy Jamaluddin said during a news briefing that it is possible for Malaysians to live with COVID through vaccination and maintaining health protocols like mask wearing and social distancing. Malaysia is looking at gradually reopening the economy by October, provided that the national vaccination rate hits  percent at that time. Bennett believed that Malaysia can achieve its vaccination target this month given that the country has a high weekly uptake rate. Khor Yu Leng, political economist at consultancy firm Segi Enam Advisors in Singapore, said living with COVID means pushing more people to get themselves fully vaccinated. This is not a problem for Malaysia, as its people have low vaccine hesitancy and are keen to get vaccinated.