Wall Street sinks as tech selloff resumes
2020/9/4 15:46
US President Donald Trump views property damage to a business during a visit to Kenosha in the aftermath of recent protests against police brutality and racial injustice and the ensuing violence after the shooting of Jacob Blake by police in Kenosha, Wisconsin, US, Sept , .  WASHINGTON  After months of limiting or completely avoiding inperson events, both US presidential candidates this week visited the city of Kenosha. The city in midwestern state Wisconsin, where yearold African American Jacob Blake was shot seven times in the back by a white police officer on Aug. , has become an unplanned focal point of both Republican and Democratic campaigns. Different world view Sitting President Donald Trump and Democratic presidential nominee Joe Biden visited Kenosha on Tuesday and Thursday respectively. For Democrats, its racial justice. For Republicans, its security, at a time of nationwide riots, looting and violence. The shooting has grabbed nationwide headlines and sparked a new wave of antipolice sentiment, protests and riots. In comments from a church in the city on Thursday, Biden said he had spoken via phone to Blake. He talked about how nothing was going to defeat him, how whether he walked again or not he was not going to give up, Biden said. Fear doesnt solve problems. Only hope does. If you give up hope, you might as well surrender. Theres no other option, Biden said, adding that he had also spoken to Blakes family. This is the first chance weve had in a generation, in my view, to deal and to cut another slice off of institutional racism, Biden said. ? Democratic US presidential nominee and former Vice President Joe Biden speaks during a community meeting at Grace Lutheran Church after a week of unrest in the aftermath of the shooting of Jacob Blake, a Black man, by a white police officer in Kenosha, Wisconsin, US, Sept , .  The police involved in Blakes shooting were attempting to arrest him for violating a restraining order stemming from an alleged sexual assault, according to the New York Post, which cited dispatch records and the Kenosha Professional Police Association. Trumps visit, just two days before Bidens, had a different motive  to support law enforcement. The presidents visit included a tour of damaged property, through which he emphasized law enforcement and reiterated that what he called radical leftwing violence has spread across the nation. Kenosha is symbolic of a very different world view of each partys base, at a time of bitter partisan rivalry. GOP voters support police and are outraged by the riots they believe Democratic mayors have done nothing to stop. They are also enraged by what they see as a double standard  hair salon and gym owners are arrested for opening during the pandemic, while rioters are allowed to potentially spread the coronavirus while gathering in large crowds to loot shops and attack store owners. This week also saw a firestorm of controversy when House Speaker Nancy Pelosi was caught on camera not wearing a mask at a beauty parlor, after imposing what critics called draconian lockdown measures on small businesses. Record gun sales Americans fears of civil unrest are mirrored in last months record gun sales. Firearms sales for August surged by  percent compared with the same time last year. The United States saw around . million guns sold last month, according to Small Arms Analytics and Forecasting, which analyzes FBI data tracking gun purchases. For their part, the Democratic base believe that there is systematic racism in the United States that is played out every time a policeman shoots an African American, although statistics show there were only nine deadly police shootings of unarmed black men in , according to a Washington Post database cited by the Wall Street Journal. Democrats are calling for racial justice, and have made the issue a major party platform. The partys left wing is calling for defunding the police, and New York Mayor Bill de Blasio has already slashed  billion US dollars from the citys police budget. If there are more police shootings in the next two months  and clearly that could happen  then each party will definitely double down, Trump with law and order and Biden with racial justice, Clay Ramsay, a senior research associate at the Center for International and Security Studies at the University of Maryland, told Xinhua.