South Africa turns to tech to boost contact tracing
2020/9/4 10:53
South Africa has launched the COVIDAlert SA, a new smartphone app, in an effort to strengthen the countrys contact tracing efforts and prevent a second wave of the coronavirus pandemic. According to South Africas Health Department, developers estimate that if  infections are reported using the app, it could save at least two lives and prevent  hospital admissions. Speaking during the launch of the app on Sept , Gaurang Tanna, the Health Departments technical lead on the project, said that the app will help suppress the virus and prevent a resurgence. The benefit is that you are able to notify your nonknown contacts. Like people you are in touch with at a supermarket or in a taxi or at the bank. This app allows you to notify these derived contacts who you may not know that you have been exposed through them or they have been exposed to you, Tanna said. The COVIDAlert SA is a cuttingedge mobile application that uses the Exposure Notification system created by Apple and Google and uses Bluetooth technology to notify users if they have been in contact with coronavirus, including strangers in retail stores, in public transport or in any public space. Through a statement to the press, Cyril Ramaphosa, South Africas president, welcomed the launch of the Bluetoothenabled mobile application and said that the most effective way to achieve suppression of the virus and prevent outbreaks from occurring again is to identify positive cases and trace and isolate their contacts as quickly as possible. I encourage every South African to download this app, which is an important, innovative and necessary part of protecting ourselves, our families, our coworkers and our communities, Ramaphosa said. The more South Africans download the app, the more effective it will be in stopping a second wave of COVID infections. But even as we use the app, we must still wear cloth masks, wash or sanitize our hands regularly, maintain social distancing and take all other precautions to keep safe, he added. The app is designed to protect user privacy and does not track a users location or collect any personally identifiable information. The system is fully anonymous and a users identity is not revealed to their contacts if they report a positive diagnosis. In addition, all mobile network operators in the country have zerorated the app to increase its uptake by South Africans. South Africa has been using manual contact tracing methods like home visits and phone calls to alert those known to have been exposed to a coronavirus patient and the COVIDAlert SA is expected to provide another crucial layer to contact tracing. Sandile Buthelezi, a director general at South Africas health ministry, urged all South Africans to download the app and ensure their Bluetooth is always enabled. We are now at the point where we are putting this product in the hands of South Africans. Its a time when South Africans must take charge and be part of the solution to help contain the infections and ensure we dont reach the second surge, Buthelezi said.