UK to require vaccine certificates for venue entry to contain virus
2021/9/7 9:11
Shanghais Chenshan garden is hosting an annual show of waterlilies featuring more than  species. Among the highlights are new varieties cultivated in the garden. Photo provided to China Daily More than , waterlilies are on show in Shanghais Chenshan Botanical Gardens through Sept . A leading facility dedicated to the collection, conservation and cultivation of plants in China, Chenshan has been hosting the annual show of waterlilies for six consecutive years. This years show, which started on Aug , features more than  species,  of which are making their debut in the garden. Among the highlights are some new varieties cultivated in Chenshan and showcased at the th China Flower Expo on Shanghais Chongming Island earlier this year. The current exhibition of waterlilies has five chapters and allows visitors to admire exhibits placed within water tanks and ponds across the garden. Visitors will also see more than  gold fish swimming in these water tanks, which have been strategically placed so that the plants are fully exposed to sunlight while visitors can appreciate them from the shade. According to Yang Kuan, a scientist in the garden, Chenshan was named a national center for waterlily seed resources last year owing to its comprehensive collection of the species. Waterlilies can be found all over the world and are appreciated for their rich colors and long flowering periods that can stretch up to six months for some tropical varieties. Shanghais Chenshan garden is hosting an annual show of waterlilies featuring more than  species. Among the highlights are new varieties cultivated in the garden. Photo provided to China Daily With its collection of native stock seed resources, Chenshan has been able to cultivate new varieties of waterlilies through hybridization techniques, Yang says. It takes up to four years to develop a new variety in Shanghai due to the climate of the Yangtze River Delta region. Among new varieties in the garden on display are the purple nymphaea polar light, the rufflepetaled nymphaea lyra and the tropical nymphaea chareonsup that has a crimson blossom and red blots on its leaves. Be it viewing the novel varieties of waterlilies, taking photos or simply getting close to nature, you wont be disappointed at the show, Yang says. Experts guide visitors during the show and host public lectures to share their expertise and experience of nurturing the aquatic plant. Chenshan will also host a design competition for cultural merchandise, featuring waterlilies and the garden in general. The three winners of the competition will be announced on Sept . The garden is also extending invitations to children who weigh no more than  kilograms to have their photos taken while sitting on the giant leaves of the Victoria cruziana, a tropical waterlily that is native to South America. Those interested can submit their applications on the gardens WeChat account starting early September, when the leaves have grown to their full size and strength, says Zhang Zhe, a spokesman of the institution. If you go  Chenhua Highway, Songjiang district, Shanghai. Visitors have to make reservations on the official WeChat account or call . A valid ID must be presented to be admitted. Masks must be worn at all times when on the premises.