China stresses winwin for Chinese, US firms
2020/9/3 7:20
A moviegoer in Shanghai poses for a picture before entering a cinema for director Guan Hus war epic, The Eight Hundred. Photo by Chen YuyuFor China Daily Chinese cinemas are recovering from COVIDs impact faster than some insiders expected. Propelled by the summers top blockbuster, The Eight Hundred, Chinas movie market is seeing a robust growth in boxoffice takings, indicating a stable recovery in the wake of COVID. As of Sept , over , cinemasnearly  percent of the totalhave opened across the country since the China Film Administration, the top sector regulator, announced domestic theaters in lowrisk areas could reopen from July . Although July grossed a modest boxoffice total of  million yuan . million, August saw sizable growth, with  films released, generating up to . billion yuan, according to Alibaba Pictures movieinformationtracking app Beacon. Filmgoers watch a movie in a cinema in Shanghai.?Photo by Chen YuyuFor China Daily Director Guan Hus war epic, The Eight Hundred, the first Asian film entirely shot on IMAX cameras, has earned more than  billion yuan, topping the countrys boxoffice charts since the reopening of domestic theaters. Over . million tickets for The Eight Hundred have been sold in Chinas  IMAX theaters. The latest figures from CanadianUS filmtechnology supplier IMAX show the Chinese blockbuster has so far earned over  million yuan for IMAX China. A film attendee gets her ticket from an automatic machine after booking it online. Photo by Xu CongjunFor China Daily A dark horse to take second place is fantasyromance Love You Forever, which has brought in over  million yuan. Alongside the domestic film Wild Grass and the Oscarwinning Little Women, the film has created a new boxoffice bonanza on Qixi Festival, the Chinese equivalent of Valentines Day, which fell on Aug . It was the highestgrossing day since Chinese theaters reopened, generating over  million yuan. The week between Aug  and  brought in . billion yuan, up nearly  percent yearonyear. It was the first time this year that market performance exceeded the same period of . Beijingbased Capital Cinemas deputy general manager Yu Chao considers The Eight Hundred, which started advanced screenings from Aug , a turning point to rescue the sluggish market, adding that the recovery has surpassed some insiders expectations. A coincidence helpful to the war films popularity is that the national film authority increased theater attendance from  percent to  percent of total capacity and removed the twohour length requirement for each screening from Aug , as China effectively brought the epidemic under control. The Capital Cinema in Beijings Xidan receives its first customers on July , after theaters in the capital reopened. Photo by Niu YungangFor China Daily The Eight Hundred spans  minutes, while most recently released popular filmsincluding the old classics Harry Potter and the Sorcerers Stone and Inceptionlasted more than two hours. Yu says audiences have become used to reserving tickets online using their names and wearing masks throughout the screenings. But a challenge is that staffers often find viewers bring snacks or drinks into the theaters, which isnt allowed, Yu says. Song Bingmei, a manager of Nanning Minzu Cinema in the Guangxi Zhuang autonomous region, says her theater has encountered the same situation. We set out boxes for customers to deposit drinks and foods. But some are reluctant to follow the guideline, since they dont want to miss a few minutes to go out for a sip of water, says Song. As most of the other audience members may be unhappy about those who try to take off their masks or eat during screenings, weve increased inhouse patrols, she adds. With Christopher Nolans scifi thriller Tenet to come on Sept  and a bunch of domestic blockbusters like My People, My Homeland set for the weeklong National Day holiday, traditionally a lucrative boxoffice season, some industry watchers expect the domestic market will continue gaining momentum. But some analysts are cautious. Beacons chief researcher Yi Zongting predicts the pandemics impact may last a year or two. The total number of films being produced or completed is shrinking a lot compared to the same period of last year. China needs more appealing bigbudget films to draw audiences back to theaters, says Yi.