Wuhans fighting spirit emerged on two fronts
2020/9/3 0:00
Normally, this time of year is when parents across the country check if their childrens feet have grown and whether they need to buy new shoes, as preparation for the return to school after the summer break. But as we all know, there is nothing normal about . Millions of children have not worn school shoes for almost six months, since novel coronavirus lockdown was imposed in March, and the schools they are about to return to will be very different. Social distancing, new hygiene regimes and the bubble system mean that school routine, a bedrock of so many young lives, has been ripped up and replaced with something very unfamiliar. For many youngsters, returning to the classroom after so long away, and experiences they may have undergone in the meantime, will be a traumatic, upsetting process. Helen Bohan of the Mental Health Foundation said there was already significant anecdotal evidence of the impact the pandemic was having on young peoples mental health. Calls to charities like Childline saw a huge rise in the first few weeks of the pandemic, and also calls to organizations like Refuge, the domestic violence charity, have increased, so children are picking up on these things, and experiencing anxiety as a result of COVID, she said. Its often at school that these things get noticed and referrals happen, so by not having been there for so long, the impact might already be being felt, and necessary referrals may have been delayed. Although there is a tendency to view younger people as fulltime residents of the digital world, Bohan continued, despite their love for virtual interaction, they do need personal contact. They love their gadgets but they also like real people and neither one is a great substitute for the other, she said. Setting good example Sheltering them from the truth isnt the way forwardwe need to be realistic and set a good example in terms of showing how we cope with things. We dont want to overburden them, but they can see whats going on, even if they dont necessarily understand it, so, as hard as it might be, modeling good habits and being open and honest is the best way. Pointing out the strengths and networks that they have available to help them cope in these tough times can be very reassuring. Kirsty Matthews is deputy principal of King Edward VI Community College, a school with around thousand pupils, in Totnes in Devon. Its semirural catchment area means geographical distancing is a fact of everyday life for many students, but lockdown had posed new challenges, particularly for those reaching points of change in their education. Back to school anxiety isnt such an issue at secondary school, and if we see it, theres usually some underlying cause, but experiencing the new and unknowable is always a challenge, she said. Its hardest for those moving from primary to secondary school, or those at the end of Year  moving elsewhere for A levelsa new place and the absence of the familiar is strange. Psychological help During lockdown, the college has provided online educational support for all and also psychological help for those adjudged to need it. A lot of the stress our students have faced has been from things like domestic tensions and in some cases financial hardship but the experience has brought us all together and shown were pulling in the same direction, she said. Weve organized things like food deliveries for vulnerable families, so as well as serving educational needs, weve demonstrated what a civic hub a school is. Having maintained inschool teaching for the children of key workers and those deemed to be at risk, Matthews said a mass return to onsite schooling poses many challenges. Desks will need to be spaced out, were having to change teaching spaces, there will be issues around shared equipment, and well have to get rid of things like physical assembliesall this is changing how we work, she said. Lots of people are desperate to come back and itll be great to see them again, but it wont feel the same. In terms of human connection, the experience will be very diluted. It wont be school as we know it. Teachers will have suffered the strain of lockdown life as much as their pupils, but Matthews said their position as authority figures meant a realistic, positive outlook was vital. Our staff have been great, but theyve experienced stress too, she said. Theres no normal way of responding to times like this, so we have to be flexible and reassure students. Theyre getting such mixed messages wear a mask on public transport but not at school, and if youre in a different year group from your siblings, at school you have to social distance from them even though theyre family. We have to be optimistic and where possible show a sense of humor. Its good to ask questions, and weve broken things down into what we can control and what we cant. But every small positive difference we can make, we will. julianmail.chinadailyuk.com Tittensor, a teacher, prepares for the opening of Westlands Primary School for the new school year amid the COVID pandemic, in NewcastleunderLyme, Staffordshire, Britain, on Tuesday. CARL RECINEREUTERS