WUHANS FIGHTING SPIRIT EMERGED ON TWO FRONTS
2020/9/3 0:00
White House coronavirus experts told Iowa officials last week that the state had the ninthhighest COVID case rate in the country. They have since revised that finding Now the state is the countrys worst coronavirus hot spot. Despite that, Iowa State University Athletic Director Jamie Pollard said the school plans to allow up to , fans into Jack Trice Stadium for the Cyclones seasonopening football game against the University of LouisianaLafayette on Sept . The , figure is the number of season tickets sold. If those ticket holders decide not to attend the game, their tickets will not be resold. The stadiums normal capacity is ,. Pollard said he expects the total number of spectators to fall as fans discover the socially distanced seats they are assigned. There will be no tailgating allowed, and masks must be worn inside the stadium. Iowa State President Wendy Wintersteen and her staff consulted with school scientists and others on allowing fans in during the universitys home football games, according to The Gazette in Cedar Rapids. Pollard said that on Monday the schools scientists painted a picture that the university could stay open, it didnt need to go online and the athletic department is going to be part of that. But he added that if those policies arent followed, fans wont be in attendance again. The Gazette said Pollard acknowledged financial motivations behind the decision to let in fans. There are economic issuesI have  staff members, he said. Budget shortfall Iowa State University in Ames has about , students and is faced with a . million budget shortfall. The White House report, which said Iowa has the highest rate of cases per capita in the nation, listed Polk Countyhome to Des Moines, Iowas capital and largest cityamong the red zones where the situation is particularly bad. A recent New York Times tally said Iowa had the highest per capita rate of COVID cases  per , people. Over the past week, the state has seen an average of , cases per day, the Times reported, an increase of  percent from the average two weeks earlier. As of Tuesday, there have been at least , cases and , deaths in Iowa since the beginning of the pandemic, according to a tally from Johns Hopkins University. Pollard cited his schools cutting of four sports as an example of what can happen if football games cant be held and revenue is lost from attendance, instadium advertising and TV contracts. Pollard said he believes Iowa State athletics will be able to survive financially due to a  percent payroll cut for all staff in his department and the school cutting  percent from its annual budget. But without football, it will be tough, he said. Separately, the administration of President Donald Trump on Tuesday said it will not join a global effort to develop, make and distribute a coronavirus vaccine, in part because the World Health Organization is involved, The Washington Post reported. aihepingchinadailyusa.com