School return will be a tough test for students
2020/9/2 23:27
File pphoto Members return to Chelsea Piers Fitness, Manhattans largest fitness facility on the first day of the reopening of gyms in New York City following the outbreak of the coronavirus disease COVID in New York, US, Sep , .  One of the more aggravating aspects of the dreary, neverending coronavirus pandemic has been its politicization. Weve seen red more conservative and Republican states wanting to forge ahead and reopen while blue more liberal and Democratic states have been more cautious. The refrain often heard is to follow the science. But which science is being followed? Political science? COVID has exacted a high toll, with more than , dead, each death a painful one for survivors. The virus also has been more deadly than common influenza. But the vexing question for historians after the pandemic subsides will be whether it necessitated hollowing out the worlds largest economy. The latest surprising coronavirus news came from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention CDC, whose recent data showed  percent of people who died of COVID had a comorbidity, or underlying illness. That means that only  percent of those stricken died of COVID itself. For deaths with conditions or causes in addition to COVID, on average, there were . additional conditions or causes per death, the Aug  report said. The CDC said that among the most prevalent underlying medical conditions were influenza, pneumonia, respiratory failure, heart disease, high blood pressure, kidney failure and heart disease. Antilockdown forces seized on the data, but skeptics argued that some of those underlying conditions actually were caused by the coronavirus. The TV media especially  the selfappointed hall monitors of the pandemic  are prone to gasping about college kids on spring break not socially distancing. Then there are the ersatz medical experts at Twitter and Facebook deciding what people can watch and read about the virus, even when those making some of the claims are medical doctors. The pro openup crowd will point to Sweden and say how that country hasnt fared badly without any lockdowns. But then theyll be on the defensive after an outbreak among carefree people at a bar or private party that leads to assorted establishments in an open up state being closed down. There also have been a few sad cases of adamant coronavirus doubters succumbing to the disease. President Donald Trump and Joe Biden, his Democratic opponent in the Nov  election, also differ on how they view the virus. The president once downplayed the threat and said it was another attempt by the Democrats and media to undermine his presidency. Biden has floated the idea of a national mask mandate, and of the economy he recently said he would shut it down if there were a second wave of the virus. As for lockdowns, here is Exhibit A New York. Generally seen as the countrys most important city, New York is now a shell of itself, with people still unable to enjoy the oncecommon pleasure of eating inside a restaurant, despite the curve of cases and hospitalizations not only having been flattened but basically run over by a truck. Speaking of trucks  and buses and cars  are potential menaces that al fresco city diners face as they savor the crumbs of eating essentially on streets and sidewalks with the further insult of being served with plastic plates and utensils, with nothing more than a flimsy barrier separating them from vehicular demise. The mayor of New York recently said restoring indoor dining wasnt a priority because not everyone can afford to eat in pricey city restaurants. That may be true, but the hundreds of thousands of city food and beverage industry workers are likely having a tough time eating at all, as their jobs have vanished amid the government restrictions. Incidentally, New York is the only city in the Empire State where indoor dining hasnt yet returned. With cooler weather and the fall approaching  a time of year preceding the holiday season when New York is in all its glory  the city is without one of its emotional pillars, the conviviality that restaurants and bars provide. New Jersey will bring back indoor dining Friday at what seems like an arbitrary  percent capacity. Why not  percent, or  percent, or  percent? Not sure how the science dictates  percent it seems like a rounding decision. Most restaurateurs Ive seen interviewed this week say they need at least  percent capacity to make it worth their while. Gyms reopened Tuesday in New Jersey at  percent capacity. Fitness establishments have been the most puzzlingly persecuted businesses in this mess. Most machines at gyms except for maybe treadmills are sufficiently socially distanced, and long before anyone heard of COVID, gyms have been leaders in sanitizing equipment. Regular exercise is crucial to maintaining ones physical and mental health. Working out in your kitchen is not the same. Then there was the tiresome debate over hydroxychloroquine, a drug that maybe hasnt been shown to be a breakthrough treatment for the virus but has been around a long time and has generally proven safe. Major media, however, treated it as if it were cyanide after the president touted it. The common thread here is politics. Its not always a matter of medicine. The virus also has provided a way to see America writ large the pushandpull of the individual versus the state. To mask or not to mask? For the record, I called for maskwearing in March when the CDC and World Health Organization were still advising against it. But it would be nice to drop the mask mandates eventually. And if you want to continue to wear one ad infinitum, accessorized with a plastic face shield that makes you look like a welder, thats your right, too. Contact the writer at williamhennellychinadailyusa.com