US university keeps football in a virus hotbed
2020/9/2 20:29
Most of those who participated in the War of Resistance Against Japanese Aggression  have already passed away. But the ever growing distance from that struggle should never wear down its glory and its political legacy. The glory came from the perseverance and national solidarity the Chinese people demonstrated on the front line and in the rear in their resistance against the Japanese aggressors. It is estimated that the total number of casualties China suffered was  million, which included civilians as well as soldiers. It was their sacrifice that made it possible for the country to win the war. Whatever ceremonies that are held to memorialize this historical occasion should always remind the nation of those who have laid down their lives and fought their way through the war. The political legacy comes from the united front that was advocated and initiated by the Communist Party of China. It was this united front that mobilized people from all walks of life, from all ethnicities and all parts of the country to contribute their bit to the fight against the aggressors. The united front was the very foundation of the peoples war that finally prevailed against the aggressors. As far as the countrys economic development and social progress are concerned, this political legacy still matters. In the fight against the novel coronavirus, China also launched a peoples war, mobilizing all residents to do their bit by staying at home, wearing face masks and adopting all preventive measures available. It was the concerted efforts of all Chinese people that have made it possible for the country to succeed in containing the spread of the virus. The spirit of perseverance and solidarity that made a difference to winning that war will continue to be carried on in the endeavor to overcome all difficulties for the rejuvenation of the Chinese nation. As for all the Asian countries that suffered from the Japanese aggression, and Japan itself, it is meaningful to always keep the memory of that war as a reminder of how important it is for countries to coexist peacefully. That explains why China always maintains that differences between countries should be settled through talks, and that differences or disputes that cannot be solved for the time being should be shelved. A Chinese epigram goes that experience, if not forgotten, can serve as a guide for the future. Remembering the war allows all the countries concerned to reflect on the lessons of history and contribute to the building of a better future for all.