Bitter days return as COVID resurges with Delta variant in US
2021/9/6 9:59
A student wearing a protective mask, attends class on the first day of school, amid the coronavirus disease COVID pandemic, at St Lawrence Catholic School in North Miami Beach, Florida, US on Aug , .  NEW YORK  With more than , new cases a day and about , COVID patients hospitalized in the United States, this Labor Day holiday appears gloomy amid wideranging, bitter realization that the coronavirus is going to remain a fact of American life for the foreseeable future. The sevenday average of confirmed cases of the pandemic stood at , nationwide on Saturday, with its day change recording a percent rise. COVIDrelated deaths were , on Saturday, with the day change realizing a percent hike, according to The New York Times NYT. The irony is that things got so good in May and most of June that all of us, including me, were talking about the end game, John Swartzberg, an infectious disease specialist at the University of California, Berkeley, was quoted as saying. We started to enjoy life again. Within a very few weeks, it all came crashing down. The resurgence of the pandemic has left the country exhausted, nervous and less certain than ever about when normalcy might return, said NYT on Sunday. Sharper impacts The impacts of the resurging pandemic are more apparent on campuses and at airports as the summer is fizzling out. The recent spread of the highly contagious Delta variant has thrown backtoschool plans into disarray, temporarily driving tens of thousands of students back to virtual learning or pausing instruction altogether, reported The Wall Street Journal on Sunday. Since the school year kicked off in late July, at least , schools across  states have closed because of COVID, according to Burbio, a Pelham, NY, data service that is monitoring school closures at , districts nationwide, including the  largest. The shutdowns are hitting classrooms especially hard in the Deep South, where most schools were among the first to open, a possible warning of whats to come as the rest of the nations students start school this month, said the report. In the meantime, the US airline industrys recovery has been grounded by the recent spike in COVID cases, prompting travelers to cancel travel plans for Labor Day weekend, reported The Hill this week. Air travel neared prepandemic levels in July, giving the airlines momentum and optimism for a robust fall season, but flight bookings dipped in August amid soaring infection rates fueled by the highly contagious Delta variant, according to the report. Flight bookings for Labor Day weekend were down  percent from prepandemic levels as of late August. Further back on Tuesday, the Transportation Security Administration TSA screened less than . million travelers, the lowest singleday total since early May, and a  percent decrease from the same day in . Renewed division The Delta variants twomonth surge has generated a sharp rise in public fears about contracting the coronavirus, undermined confidence in US President Joe Bidens leadership and renewed divisions over vaccine and mask mandates, according to a Washington PostABC News poll. Nearly half of Americans,  percent, rate their risk of getting sick from the coronavirus as moderate or high, up  percentage points from late June. This follows a more than tenfold increase in daily infections. Concerns over catching the virus among partially or fully vaccinated adults have risen from  percent to  percent, while concern among unvaccinated adults has grown from  percent to  percent over the same period. Those shifts parallel a rebound in vaccinations, with the share of adults with at least one coronavirus shot rising from  percent on in early July to  percent as of Saturday, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. The poll finds younger Republicans and Republicanleaning independents have become more willing to get vaccinated since this spring, a significant shift for one of the countrys most vaccinehesitant groups. President Bidens approval rating for handling the pandemic has dropped to  percent from  percent in late June, days before he said the nation was closer than ever to declaring our independence from a deadly virus. At the time and as the variant has spread, he has repeatedly implored Americans to get vaccinated and wear masks, reported The Washington Post on Saturday. The PostABC poll also found that  percent of Americans support businesses requiring employees who come into work to be vaccinated, with support dipping to  percent among workers who are not selfemployed. Roughly  in  Democrats support vaccine mandates for workers, while more than  in  Republicans are opposed. Independents are divided nearly down the middle. Vaccine and mask requirements in schools have also generated fierce divisions as the academic year begins, said the Post, adding that the PostABC poll found public support depending on circumstances as well as by partisan viewpoint. Twothirds of Americans overall, as well as public school parents, support school districts requiring teachers, staff and students to wear masks. Booster expected Director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases NIAID Anthony Fauci told CBS Face the Nation on Sunday the Pfizer coronavirus booster shot may be ready by the date the administration has aimed for, while Modernas will likely need more time for approval. President Biden said last month the government will offer boosters beginning the week of Sept.  to adults who got their shots of PfizerBioNTech or Moderna at least eight months prior. We were hoping that we would get the, both the candidates, both products, Moderna and Pfizer, rolled out by the week of the th, Fauci said. It is conceivable that we will only have one of them out, but the other would likely follow soon thereafter. While Pfizer is working smoothly with its booster shot, Moderna Inc. tweeted on Friday that it completed its submission to US regulators for clearance of a booster dose of its COVID vaccine, starting the clock on a closely watched federal review. Two days before the tweet was posted, the company had filed initial data concerning the supplemental dose with the Food and Drug Administration. The drug regulator will pore over the data and make a determination about whether it supports clearance of a third shot to enhance the immune protection afforded by the existing regimen. In a related development, Ron Klain, chief of staff at the White House, said on CNNs State of the Union on Sunday that the Biden administration will only offer COVID booster shots once federal health regulators offer their support. I want to be absolutely clear. No ones going to get boosters until the FDA the Food and Drug Administration says theyre approved, until the CDC the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention advisory committee makes a recommendation, said Klain. The pledge followed a report earlier this week that top federal health officials had told the White House to scale back the planned booster campaign, arguing that regulators needed more time to collect and review all the necessary data.