Scientists to seek more cooperation on virus data sharing
2020/9/2 14:23
A person wearing a face mask walks down an empty sidewalk as the city operates under lockdown in response to an outbreak of the coronavirus disease COVID in Melbourne, Australia, Aug , .  CANBERRA  Australia has officially fallen into its first recession in  years with the biggest fall in Gross Domestic Product GDP on record. According to national accounts data published by the Australian Bureau of Statistics ABS on Wednesday GDP contracted by  percent in the June quarter  more than three times more than the previous biggest fall of  percent in . This is, by a wide margin, the largest fall in quarterly GDP since records began in , said Michael Smedes, head of national accounts at the ABS. It marks the second consecutive quarter of economic decline, meaning that Australia is in a recession for the first time since . Todays national accounts confirm the devastating impact on the Australian economy from COVID, Treasurer Josh Frydenberg told reporters on Wednesday afternoon. Our record run of  consecutive years of economic growth has now officially come to an end. Behind these numbers are heartbreaking stories of hardship, being filled by everyday Australians as they go about their daily lives. The ABS found that due to increased number of recipients and additional support payments, social assistance benefits in cash rose to a record . percent. Meanwhile, Australians spending on services fell . percent in the June quarter while hours worked fell a record . percent and the household saving to income ratio rose from  percent to . percent. Household expenditure declined by . percent. However, Frydenberg said that the government has the financial firepower to stimulate the economy in the wake of the pandemic. The road ahead will be long, the road ahead will be hard, the road ahead will be bumpy, he said. We didnt go down the path of countries like Sweden which put few restrictions in place. At the same time we didnt go down the path of countries like France which accepted and adopted extreme lockdowns, totally shutting down large parts of their economy. Instead we chose our own path, and put in place  billion Australian dollars . billion US dollars of support for Australians to build a bridge to the other side of this crisis. Despite offering longterm optimism Frydenberg also warned of a grim shortterm outlook, with the September quarter expected to be weighed down significantly by strict stage four coronavirus restrictions introduced in Victoria in August. Earlier on Wednesday Mathias Cormann, the minister for finance, said that the government stood by restrictions placed on the economy to prevent the spread of COVID. We were hit by an unexpected crisis which came out of nowhere and clearly the first priority was to protect peoples health and save peoples lives by suppressing the spread of the virus and that was absolutely necessary, he said.