HK to reopen schools in phases starting Sept
2020/9/2 11:28
Members of the Iowa Department of Public Health perform drive through testing for the coronavirus disease COVID, in Waterloo, Iowa, US, April , .  White House coronavirus experts told Iowa officials last week that the state had the ninthhighest novel coronavirus case rate in the country. They have since revised that finding Now the state is the countrys worst coronavirus hot spot. Despite that, Iowa State University Athletic Director Jamie Pollard said the school plans to allow up to , fans into Jack Trice Stadium for the Cyclones seasonopening football game against the University of LouisianaLafayette on Sept . The , figure is the number of season tickets sold. If those ticket holders decide not to attend the game, their tickets will not be resold. The stadiums normal capacity is ,. Pollard said he expects the total number of spectators to fall as fans find out the socially distanced seats they are assigned. There will be no tailgating allowed, and masks must be worn inside the stadium. Iowa State President Wendy Wintersteen and her staff consulted with school scientists and others on allowing fans in during the universitys home football games, according to The Gazette in Cedar Rapids. Pollard said that on Monday the schools scientists painted a picture that the university could stay open, it didnt need to go online only and felt like with further testing and further mitigation  and the athletic department is going to be part of that. But he added that if those policies arent followed, fans wont be in attendance again. The Gazette said Pollard acknowledged financial motivations behind the decision to let in fans. There are economic issues  I have  staff members, he said. Iowa State University in Ames has about , students and is faced with a . million budget shortfall. The White House report, which said Iowa has the highest rate of cases per capita in the nation, listed Polk County  home to Des Moines, Iowas capital and largest city  among the red zones where the coronavirus epidemic is particularly bad. A recent New York Times tally said Iowa had the highest per capita rate of COVID cases  cases per , people. Over the past week, the state has seen an average of , cases per day, the Times reported, an increase of  percent from the average two weeks earlier. As of Tuesday, there have been at least coronavirus , cases and , deaths in Iowa since the beginning of the pandemic, according to data from Johns Hopkins University. Pollard cited his schools cutting of four sports as an example of what can happen if football games cant be held and revenue is lost from attendance, instadium advertising and TV contracts. Pollard said he believes Iowa State athletics will be able to survive financially due to a  percent payroll cut for all staff in his department and the school cutting  percent from its annual budget. But without football, it will be tough, he said. He said his message to Iowa fans is Do your part, and lets see if we can make this happen. If we can make it happen, it could be an incredible success story. If it doesnt work  for whatever reason  then we have to pull the plug, but Ill know we tried. The White House told the state in a report Sunday that it should close bars in  of its  counties and test all returning college students for the virus, according to the Des Moines Register. Bars must be closed, and indoor dining must be restricted to  percent of normal capacity in yellow zone and  percent of normal capacity in red zone counties and metro areas, the report says, according to the newspaper. Those recommended actions are much stronger than ones put in place by Governor Kim Reynolds. On Aug , she ordered all bars, breweries and nightclubs in six of Iowas most populous counties to stop selling alcohol after  pm. The order is in effect until Sept . While some local officials applauded the more stringent health precautions, others said Reynolds had been too slow to act. Its better than nothing, said Johnson County supervisor Rod Sullivan. But its too little, too late. Elected officials in several of the states most populous counties said they are increasingly relying on data sources other than the states health department to make decisions about protecting residents in their communities. They said they no longer trust state data or metrics because cases have been consistently underreported and contain inaccuracies and that Reynolds guidance thus far has failed to quell the virus spread. The Trump administration on Tuesday said it will not join a global effort to develop, make and distribute a coronavirus vaccine, in part because the World Health Organization is involved, The Washington Post reported.