China set for key role in Asia revival
2020/9/2 8:39
LI MINCHINA DAILY Antipandemic fight has deepened ties and strengthened cooperation between China and Colombia The Peoples Republic of China officially established diplomatic ties with the Republic of Colombia on Feb , . Since then, the two countries have been upholding the principles of sovereignty and territorial integrity, mutual nonaggression, noninterference in the internal affairs of other countries, equality and mutual benefits, and peaceful coexistence. The two countries have been deepening mutual political trust and pragmatic cooperation and maintaining healthy bilateral ties. Economic and trade exchanges have improved significantly, peopletopeople contacts and cultural exchanges have become more frequent and the nongovernment friendship has been further consolidated. When China was battling the novel coronavirus epidemic, Colombian President Ivan Duque Marquez expressed sympathy and support to President Xi Jinping, extending his confidence in the Chinese government and people winning the fight against the virus. When the virus spread to Colombia, Chinese State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi spoke to Colombian Foreign Minister Claudia Blum, expressing Chinas sympathy and support to the Colombian people. Wangs verbal support was translated into practical action. The Chinese central government, sister provinces and cities, enterprises and nongovernment organizations sent a huge consignment of medical and protective equipment, such as test reagents, masks, goggles, gloves, protective suits, infrared thermometers and ventilators, all of which were urgently needed in Colombia. The governments of the two countries, civil aviation authorities, health and medical institutions and other departments have held a number of videoconferences, and Chinese experts have spared no effort in sharing their experiences on pandemic prevention and control, diagnosis and treatment, and resumption of work and production. The Chinese embassy in Colombia and overseas Chinese there have also made great efforts to provide food packages to some poor areas in the country and help local vulnerable groups suffering from the impact of the pandemic. Also, China actively coordinated with all parties concerned to help Colombia purchase urgently needed medical supplies from China. Recently, Wang and his Colombian counterpart, as well as foreign ministers from the Latin American countries, talked via video link to discuss countermeasures against COVID and exchanged ideas on cooperation in the battle against the virus. The sudden emergence of this public health threat has impacted people in an allaround way. It not only threatens peoples lives and health, but also disrupts the pace of development, causing great damage to economies, society and peoples livelihoods. Therefore, to join hands to fight against the pandemic in the tough time requires China and Colombia to not only work together to win the battle against the virus, but also to support each other to achieve sustained and stable economic and social development and protect the peoples right to development in the postpandemic era. Cooperation between China and Colombia has not stopped despite the pandemic. A batch of Hass avocado, a specialty of Colombia, traveled the high seas and arrived at Shanghai port before reaching the dining tables of Chinese consumers. Chinese phone maker Vivo actively developed and successfully entered the Colombian market. Some major infrastructure cooperation projects between the two countries, such as the Bogota Metro Line  and the Project Regiotram of Colombia have progressed in an orderly manner thanks to dozens of Chinese technicians braving the pandemic to work there. Many Chinesefunded companies in Colombia have provided scientific and technological equipment to institutions to help the country fight the pandemic. A total of  Colombian enterprises actively participated in an online fashion show during the China International Fashion Week. A guide on Chinas ecommerce sector in Colombia was released recently to promote ecommerce cooperation between the two countries. The th Hanyu Qiao Chinese Bridge Chinese Proficiency Program Columbia competition was held online, confirming that the Chinese fever has not ebbed because of the pandemic. Despite the challenges posed by the pandemic, the two countries are not only committed to solving the current problems, but also focusing on gaining experience for development, consolidating the foundation of cooperation, and accumulating energy for better growth in the future. Unity and cooperation are the most powerful weapons for the international community against natural disasters and difficulties. All countries should uphold the concept of a community with a shared future for mankind, work together and help each other, and protect the peoples health for the wellbeing of future generations. As a Chinese poem says Mountains and rivers apart, we share the same winds and moon under the same sky. Although China and Colombia are thousands of miles apart, our friendship and cooperation will last forever. During the pandemic, the two countries have joined hands to defeat it and overcome the difficulties, demonstrating the spirit of the yearlong partnership. Friendly cooperation between the two countries will certainly deepen further because of this battle. The author is the Chinese ambassador to Colombia. The author contributed this article to China Watch, a think tank powered by China Daily. The views do not necessarily reflect those of China Daily.