US squandered opportunities to squash COVID
2021/9/5 18:02
Lila Blanks holds the casket of her husband, Gregory Blanks, , who died of the coronavirus disease COVID, ahead of his funeral in San Felipe, Texas, US, January , .  The United States has reported more than  million COVID cases and more than , deaths  ranking first in the world in both categories, according to the latest data from the World Health Organization. The US also performed extremely poorly on a range of measures that show the severity of the pandemic proportionally, including the number of deaths per million people, the death rate of COVID patients, and the positive rate of COVID tests. How did the US become such a failed country in the fight against COVID? Wasting every opportunity to contain COVID outbreak Despite ample warning, the US squandered every possible opportunity to control the coronavirus, said an article titled How the pandemic is killing America by the US magazine The Atlantic in September . From Jan  to Feb , , China had briefed the US on the epidemic information and control measures in China for  times, including sharing with US CDC project manager in China information about Chinas diagnosis and treatment guidelines, prevention and control guidelines, and the linkage of the novel coronavirus database that China shares with the world in real time. In the early days of the pandemic, Trumps administration repeatedly ignored warnings about the outbreak and tried to downplay the risk, missing the best window period for effective measures. In fact, key breakdowns happened with Trump ignoring warnings  In early January , the National Security Council received reports from epidemiologists of the State Department and the National Center for Medical Intelligence of the Defense Intelligence Agency, respectively, predicting that COVID would spread to the US and could develop into a global pandemic  On Jan  and , , thenSecretary of Health and Human Services Alex Azar called president Trump twice to brief him on the potential severity of the outbreak  On Jan , , Peter Navarro, then director of the White House Office of National Trade and Manufacturing Policy, submitted a memo warning that the outbreak could kill as many as , people and cause trillions of dollars in economic losses... According to a model analysis by disease researchers at Columbia University, , lives could have been saved by May ,  if the governments epidemic control measures announced on March  could have been made two weeks earlier. The bodies of the more than , Americans killed by the disease were enough to pile up in mountains. Its a slaughter, said William Foege, an American epidemiologist and former head of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Older people, already at greater risk from the pandemic, have been ruthlessly marginalized by the chaotic epidemic control system in the US. Texas Lt. Gov. Dan Patrick said repeatedly in an interview with FoxNews.com in April  that he would rather die than see public health measures hurt the US economy, saying, grandparents are willing to die to save the economy for their grandkids. Lie to people and suppression of scientists Facing the fastspreading epidemic, the US government not only ignored various warnings, but focused on controlling the spread of information and even issued false information to mislead the public. At the beginning of the crisis, Trump called COVID the flu. He further fumbled on verbally saying that soon there will be a flu vaccine against it and imaging the COVID pandemic would suddenly disappear with the warming of the weather in April. After the first outbreak, Trump began to promote highrisk anti COVID magic medicine. On March , he announced on Twitter that hydroxychloroquine has potential benefits against COVID. However, on April , the FDA warned that hydroxychloroquine might cause serious side effects. To use the pandemic as an excuse for political purposes, the US government has suppressed scientists and professional opinions. Doctor Anthony Fauci, known as Americas antipandemic captain, was suppressed for criticizing Trump for repeatedly refusing to implement early social quarantine measures, missing the opportunity to fight the pandemic. The New York Times reported that senior White House officials pressured the intelligence community to link the COVID virus to the Wuhan virus institute. Polarized bipartisan pattern and chaotic response Narrow partisan political interests and the supremacy of shortterm economic interests have plagued the US response to the epidemic. When partisan struggles met the division of power among federal, state, and local governments, COVID outbreak prevention and control efforts were caught with clear divisions and contradictions even confrontations. Wearing a mask has become a political issue in the US. Trump himself refused to wear a mask and even organized many public meetings. Since the Democratic Partys Biden became president, he has pushed for mask mandates and vaccinations. But the Republican states and the federal government are in deep conflict. The US government has repeatedly acted mindlessly, resulting in a shortage of medical supplies and ignored the health and life needs of the people. The chairman of the US COVID Crisis Subcommittee, James E. Clyburn, blamed the federal government for not having a unified national strategy to protect peoples health even six months after the outbreak in the US. The US has so far had confusing data on the pandemic. On the one hand, it has not been treating confirmed cases with full capacity in a timely manner. On the other hand, it has wasted a lot of valuable medical resources due to the lack of unified and effective coordination. Time magazines opinion piece titled The COVID Crisis in the US Is a Failure of Democracy stated that the COVID has been called a serious public health crisis, leading to massive deaths and rapid job losses in the US. However, it is not essentially a failure of public health response, but a failure of democracy. Disregarding international morality The US engaged in vaccine nationalism and created an immunization divide, politicizing vaccine cooperation and impeding global cooperation on vaccines, treatment, and joint prevention and control, making it difficult for poor countries to obtain vaccines and leading to global vaccine supply imbalance. Several media outlets have reported on poor global collaboration in vaccines. According to the Washington Post, the US is stockpiling COVID vaccines in large numbers, which has led to significant vaccine waste. The New York Times also stated that a huge vaccine access gap has emerged globally. Duke Universitys Center for Global Health Innovation estimates that by the summer of , the US could be  million or more doses of the COVID vaccine in surplus.  The Wall Street Journal reported on May  that the US had exported only  million doses of COVID vaccine, less than  percent of US vaccine production. Undermining global cooperation The US failed to control the pandemic within its borders. But it is exporting the coronavirus outside its borders. In the wake of the COVID outbreak, more than  million US citizens were still traveling abroad. The US has shirked its responsibility with the global spread of the pandemic. The US has massively deported illegal immigrants, causing the pandemic to intensify in some developing countries. The New York Times stated that the US was exporting the virus by returning thousands of people who may have been infected with the COVID to poorer countries. During the same period when President Biden instructed the US intelligence community to provide a report on the origins of the outbreak within  days, US Secretary of State Antony Blinken, National Security Adviser James Sullivan, and other senior government officials made statements on the origins of the outbreak. This created an international dispute for no reason. However, Washington has been extremely secretive in the face of the international communitys concerns about the early spread of the virus. Washington also has disrupted the international order of pandemic responses by withdrawing from the WHO and rejoining the WHO. Richard Horton, editor in chief of the Lancet, called the US withdrawal from WHO madness and terrifying both at the same time. However, the Biden administrations rejoining the group is not for the sake of SinoWestern cooperation against the pandemic, but to release the signal of return of the US to the international community and to draw in more allies and international organizations to confront China. The report titled America Ranked First?! The Truth about Americas Fight against COVID contributed to this story.