Chinese courier giant SF Holding reports strong revenue growth
2020/9/1 13:31
? Novak Djokovic of Serbia returns a volley during his Mens Singles first round match against Damir Dzumhur of Bosnia and Herzegovina on Day One of the  US Open at the USTA Billie Jean King National Tennis Center on August ,  in the Queens borough of New York City.  The first time Kim Clijsters entered the US Open, all the way back in , she faced a certain someone by the name of Serena Williams. All these years later, threetime US Open champion Clijsters is back ready to play at Flushing Meadows, out of retirement at age  and entered in a Grand Slam tournament for the first time since . And Williams, less than a month from turning , is still at the top of tennis, the runnerup in New York each of the past two years and at four of the past seven major championships. Asked to name a moment that sticks in her memory, Clijsters pointed to that first meeting against Williams, who won , ,  in the third round and would go on to claim the first of her  majors. It was an incredible match. The atmosphere was great. For me, that kind of, I think, started the energy that I feel here when I play here, said Clijsters, who won the US Open in , defeating Williams in the final and , along with the  Australian Open. Any night match that you get to play here at the US Open on Arthur Ashe is incredible, the Belgian said. Its nothing like anything else anywhere else. As for Clijsters thoughts on Williams and the possibility of equaling Margaret Courts total of  Slam singles titles? The great results she had, not even a year after her daughter was bornplaying Grand Slam finals, competing for Grand Slam titleswas, I think, incredible, Clijsters said. Obviously, a lot of people talk about it. I think also for her, it gets harder to kind of not let it get to you, I think. Shes still working at it very hard, very passionate out there. Thats what we love to see. Shes a great competitor. Always has been that. You can only support that for somebody who has achieved so much and done so much. Here are other things to know as the US Open gets started Safety first The pandemic will loom over the two weeks. How couldnt it? In April, indoor practice courts housed a field hospital. On Sunday, the first player, thseeded Benoit Paire of France, tested positive for COVID. There are no spectators. Players entourages are limited to three people. Everyone on the grounds must wear masks. Djokovic juggernaut Novak Djokovic is  in , the best opening to a season for a man since he went  in . Hes also the only member of the Big Three in New York Rafael Nadal and Roger Federer are not in the draw. That trio has collected the past  Grand Slam trophies in a row that includes five of the last seven for Djokovic alone. Whether I have a bigger chance to win it because Roger and Rafa are not here, I really dont know, the yearold Djokovic said. I think its unfair for me to talk about. That, in a way, is kind of disrespectful towards other players who are here. Injury fears Ramping up to topflight competition after so many months away because of the pandemic could lead to injuries. During the Western Southern Open, for example, Djokovic dealt with a neck issue and twotime major champion Naomi Osaka pulled out of the womens singles final because of a left hamstring problem. I do think that still a lot of players are going to have problems and were going to see a lot of withdrawals at the US Open,  runnerup Daniil Medvedev said, especially if its going to be hot, because... after six months without competitive tennis, to play best out of five sets is tough. Need for speed Players testing the Billie Jean King National Tennis Center courts in practice or during competition at the WesternSouthern Opennormally held in Ohio, it shifted to Flushing Meadows as part of a controlled environmentseemed pretty much in agreement The speed is faster everywhere except maybe Arthur Ashe and Louis Amstrong Stadium. The brand of the court surfaces changed for the first time since , with a fiveyear agreement to use Laykold hard courts made by Advanced Polymer Technology. At least  to  percent quicker than last years, reckons Djokovic. HawkEye live There will be line judges only on the two largest courts. Everywhere else, a chair umpire will be assisted by electronic linecalling HawkEyeremoving the human element in the name of social distancing. Other concessions include qualifying and mixed doubles were eliminated entirely the mens and womens doubles fields were reduced by half total prize money decreased, including a cut from . million to  million each to the singles champions. Associated Press