More flights to move to Beijings new airport
2020/9/1 10:00
An Iranian man and his son wearing a protective face mask walks in a street, following the outbreak of the coronavirus disease COVID, in Tehran, Iran, June , .  CAIRO  Irans total COVID cases exceeded , on Monday. Meanwhile, many countries in the Middle East start new school year amid concerns over the spread of the COVID. Iran, the hardesthit country in the Middle East region, reported an overnight registration of , novel coronavirus infections, bringing the tally in the country to ,. Out of the new cases,  patients have been hospitalized, the spokeswoman for Irans Ministry of Health and Medical Education Sima Sadat Lari said at her daily briefing. The pandemic has so far claimed , lives in Iran, up by  in the past  hours, Lari said. In total, , patients have recovered and been discharged from hospitals since February, while , remain in critical condition under intensive care. Turkey confirmed , new COVID cases on Monday, raising the total diagnosed patients to ,, while  people died in the past  hours, taking the death toll to ,. Turkish students started online schooling on Monday amid growing concerns over the spread of the COVID infection as the daily cases are on the rise in Turkey. The country mulls to start facetoface education on Sept.  after evaluation of the pandemic situation. Meanwhile, Turkeys biggest city Istanbul banned indoor engagement parties, circumcision ceremonies, henna nights, and similar activities over the increasing number of daily new COVID cases and deaths across the country. Irsael reported , new COVID cases, bringing the total infections to ,, while  new death cases were confirmed, taking the death toll to . Over  million Israeli students will return to schools on Tuesday under the shadow of the COVID pandemic. The education ministry has come up with stringent guidelines on how the school year should be conducted. While younger children have been divided into smaller groups and will attend school between five to dix days a week, the older students will conduct most of their studies at home. The United Arab Emirates on Monday announced  new COVID cases, bringing the total confirmed cases in the country to ,. It also confirmed two more deaths, pushing the countrys death toll to . The Iraqi Health Ministry on Monday reported , new COVID cases, bringing the total nationwide infections to ,. It also reported  deaths during the day, raising the death toll to ,. Kuwait on Monday reported  new COVID cases and one more death, raising the tally of infections to , and the death toll to . Lebanons number of COVID infections increased on Monday by  cases to , while death toll went up by seven to . Lebanese Health Minister Hamad Hassan said that the cabinet allocated  million US dollars to be distributed among  public hospitals to help fight against COVID. Lebanons number of COVID cases has been increasing remarkably on a daily basis due to the lack of proper precautionary measures by citizens. Hassan said Monday that the best way to restrict the spread of the virus is through adopting personal protection measures. The Qatari Health Ministry on Monday announced  new COVID infections, raising the total number of confirmed cases in the Gulf state to ,, while no new fatalities were reported, keeping the tally at . The Omani Health Ministry on Monday announced  new COVID infections, raising the total number of confirmed cases to ,, while the death toll swelled by eight to . Morocco registered , new COVID cases and  deaths, increasing the tally of infections to , and the death toll to ,.