Africas COVID cases close to . mln amid growing economic impact
2020/8/31 10:56
A girl wearing a protective mask looks on through a bus window, as schools reopen amid a nationwide coronavirus disease COVID lockdown in Eikenhof, south of Johannesburg, South Africa Aug , .  ADDIS ABABA  The Africa Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Africa CDC on Sunday said that the number of positive COVID cases across the African continent rose to ,, amid growing impact on African economies. The Africa CDC, which noted that only five African countries account for over  percent of all COVID infections in the continent, also stressed that the death toll from the ongoing COVID pandemic rose to , on Sunday. Some , people who were infected with COVID had recovered across the continent so far, it said. Amid the rapid spread of the virus across the continent, South Africa alone accounts for about  percent of all COVID infections in the continent, followed by Egypt which has eight percent of all COVID infections in the continent, the Africa CDC said. The continental disease control and prevention agency said that South Africa is way ahead compared to the rest of the continent both in terms of number of COVID cases and ratio of COVID infected population, the country has so far reported , cases and , deaths as of Sunday. The southern Africa country, which has so far registered , COVID recoveries, has , cases per , population, according to the Africa CDC. Egypt is the second most COVID affected country with , positive cases and , COVID related deaths, it was noted. Morocco, which has so far reported , positive cases and , deaths, comes third with five percent of all COVID infections in the continent, while Nigeria and Ethiopia round the top of five list. Nigeria has so far reported , positive cases and , COVID related deaths, according to the Africa CDC. Ethiopias confirmed COVID cases reached , as of Sunday morning, as the total number of COVID related deaths in the East African country to , the countrys Ministry of Health said. Some , patients who tested positive for COVID had recovered, it was noted. Noting that a total of . million tests have been reported by member States with an overall test per confirmed case ratio of ., the Africa CDC stressed that some  African countries contribute  percent of the tests conducted so far, which are South Africa, Morocco, Ethiopia, Egypt, Ghana, Kenya, Nigeria, Rwanda, Uganda, Mauritius, and Cameroon. Meanwhile, in addition to the healthcare impact of the ongoing COVID pandemic in Africa, the AU also revealed that the pandemic has exacerbated an already dire domestic revenue situation across the African continent. Undoubtedly, the unprecedented COVID pandemic continues to pose a devastating situation for health systems and national incomes globally. Governments continue to strain their fiscal revenues as they implement emergency measures and recovery plans to sustain economies, Victor Harison, AU Commissioner for Economic Affairs, said on Friday. This also has a significant negative effect on tax revenues, which provide a substantial source of revenue for most nations. In many African countries, the pandemic has exacerbated an already dire tax revenue situation, the AU Economic Affairs Commissioner added. Figures from the member pan African bloc show that Africas GDP growth is projected to be between . percent and . percent in , which would lead to a reduction of between  billion US dollars and  billion US dollars from preCOVID GDP of . trillion US dollars. According to the AU, the COVID crisis has increased poverty with the African Development Bank AfDB estimating that COVID pandemic will push between . million and . million more Africans into extreme poverty. Noting that the contracting economies are expected to translate into weaker fiscal positions for governments across the continent at a time of maximum need, the AU said the impact of the pandemic adversely impact domestic resource mobilization efforts, and likely lead to a reduction in overseas development assistance as donor countries face their own cash crunch in the midst of economic turmoil.