China, EU eye promising future
2020/8/31 8:49
Since the two sides are interdependent in trade and economy, greater cooperation can foster a more fruitful partnership ChinaEU relations have entered a new phase amid the novel coronavirus pandemic. Unlike in the past, when China and the European Union saw each other as mutually beneficial partners, the EUs policy toward China in recent years has been more about meeting challenges. The EUs concerns about China can be summarized as follows. First, technology may migrate to China weakening the EUs competitiveness. The EU believes that technology transfer is a security issue as much as a matter of competitiveness. Both developing and developed EU economies are facing economic recession, and the European Commission has been warning EU member states to protect European companies from being taken over by their foreign counterparts amid the global public health crisis. The second concern is telecommunications security. On Oct , , the European Commission released a report saying G network security is a matter of great concern for the EU. Whether the United Kingdoms decision to ban Huaweis G equipment will have a spillover effect on the rest of Europe remains to be seen, but there is a consensus among European countries about this issue and the need for an assessment of risks. In addition, the European countries are facing pressure from the United States to ban Huawei in order to safeguard their telecom security. The third concern is the safety of supply chains. In the early stage of the novel coronavirus outbreak, European countries were suffering from shortages of medical supplies. And some European think tanks believe that the dependence on China for pharmaceuticals has caused anxiety in Europe, and making the industrial chain more resilient has become a priority for the EU. In fact, French President Emmanuel Macron called on France and the other EU states to increase local production of face masks, ventilators and other strategic medical equipment to reduce their dependence on China and strengthen Europes economic sovereignty. The EUs fourth concern is that Chinas way is seeking to divide and rule in its dealings with the EU. In recent years, because of Brexit, the emergence of the PolandHungary axis in Central and Eastern Europe, and the continuing influx of refugees, maintaining unity has become paramount to the EU. In this context, individual countries dealing with China in the absence of a common European foreign policy have also raised concerns that Chinas rising influence is undermining the EUs solidarity. And the fact that in , Italy became the first G member and major EU country to sign a memorandum of understanding with China on the Belt and Road Initiative aroused strong reaction in Europe. Indeed, rising EU concerns over China have created some difficulties for bilateral cooperation. On the other hand, Chinas direct investment in Europe has been declining in recent years. Yet these factors have not stopped us from looking forward to better ChinaEU relations in the future. The Chinese people often say that there is an opportunity amid crisis, which is also the case for ChinaEU relations. To begin with, the EU Recovery Fund shows the blocs solidarity. The fund, an unprecedented stimulus package worth  billion euros  billion to pull the EU economies out of the worst recession in memory, is a great achievement and an important step toward European fiscal integration. In the process of reaching the agreement, despite their differences, all the EU member states agreed that dealing with the crisis was of utmost importance. Fiscally rich countries, notably Germany, are willing to take more economic responsibility for boosting the European project. And a more united and confident EU would also have fewer qualms about dealing with China. That the EU Recovery Fund is designed to not only deal with the current crisis but also promote economic transformation and develop green and digital industries  with at least  percent of the  billion likely to be invested in such industries  is in line with Chinas development direction. There is huge room for cooperation between China and the EU in these fields. Also, as the economic pressure on the EU increases, its need for cooperation with China, too, will increase. Despite the EUs multiple recovery measures, the impact of the pandemic on its economy is likely to last long. Actually, the EU economy is forecast to shrink by about  percent this year and its fiscal deficit is likely to increase dramatically. By contrast, China has largely contained the virus at home, and its economy and foreign trade have begun to recover, making it more attractive to Europe, at least economically. As a matter of fact, China and the EU are negotiating an investment agreement that, if finalized soon, will help European companies to further access the growing Chinese market. Besides, there is still potential for Chinese investment in Europe. The EU and China are already extremely important trading partners, yet there are many untapped potential fields, especially in the area of trade in services. For example, from  to , the share of intraEU trade in services as a percentage of GDP rose from . to .. But Chinas trade in services has developed slowly, resulting in the small proportion of ChinaEU trade in services in overall trade. And unlike the trade in goods, the EU has a surplus in service trade with China, which is increasing year by year. The surplus was . billion euros in , increasing to . billion euros in  and . billion euros in . The EUs surplus in service trade comes from the travel industry, which is largely dependent on tourism, and technology services, and perhaps thats why the EU has been more willing to cooperate with China in technology than the US. This year marks the th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic ties between China and the European Economic Community, the predecessor of the EU.Looking back at the growing momentum of ChinaEU relations, we can see that the two sides have been interdependent in trade and economy and have little geopolitical conflicts. And with the world facing unprecedented changes, we have every reason to continue to look forward to a promising future for ChinaEU relations. The author is deputy director of Institute of European Studies at the China Institutes of Contemporary International Relations. The author contributed this article to China Watch, a think tank powered by China Daily. The views do not necessarily reflect those of China Daily.