More efforts needed to combat COVID virus in Hong Kong
2020/8/31 8:39
Hong Kong remains in a stranglehold of restrictions despite new case numbers of COVID having reduced significantly. Imminent moderate easing is certainly welcome but not sufficient. The number of related deaths remains comparatively low and seems to be predominantly among older people with underlying or preexisting conditions. Understandably nursing homes for the elderly seem to be one of the flash points for the spread of the disease and they need to be closely monitored and controlled. With the level of technology at our disposal, adequate and accurate track and trace systems should have been one of the earliest protocols in the fight against COVID. Sadly we do not appear to have sufficiently addressed this aspect of disease control and containment and this will inevitably have repercussions in the future and result in a very high cost to society and the economy. There are so many unknowns and variables that half measures to combat the situation are no longer good enough. In the meantime, a sufficient number of residents across many parts of Hong Kong fail to observe or comply with recommended medical advice with regard to wearing masks and social distancing, leading some observers to wonder when  not if  another wave will occur, wreaking further devastation on Hong Kong. There are no social distancing protocols being observed on public transport or in many shopping districts, yet this goes ignored by the authorities while schools remain closed. Why is the risk greater in a classroom, where social distancing can be monitored and controlled, than for example on the MTR, where there have never been any social distancing protocols in place? Increasingly people are having difficulty in understanding the rationale behind some of these measures. The eventual plugging of some of the gaps in testing and quarantine exemptions is most likely to have been the most significant factor in the current drop in infections. Unfortunately the lack of adequate checks and controls last time were the probable cause of the third wave. Why adequate measures have still not been put in place in a timely manner remains a mystery and we could have avoided much of the subsequent hardship had decisive action been taken. Notwithstanding all of this, it is quite likely we will see an increase in the number of cases reported as a direct result of an increase in testing over the coming weeks. Does this mean the situation will be deteriorating or that we are simply more aware of the levels of infection as a result of more information? Will such a scenario call for even further lockdowns or will common sense prevail? Decisive steps need to be taken to reopen the schools and get people back to work in a safe and measured manner. It remains necessary to plug the exemption gaps and introduce adequate, track, trace and quarantine protocols. Selfquarantine is a nonsensical concept in the confines of the living spaces in Hong Kong and it assumes that everyone has the ability or is willing to observe difficult protocols. Sadly the most obvious factor not taken into account is human nature. If quarantine is required it should be arranged in a manner befitting a modern society and those people required to isolate need to be properly quarantined but treated with respect to preserve their dignity and provided with sufficient support mechanisms. Over recent months the COVID influence on life on Lantau Island has seen a massive increase in numbers visiting the beaches and country parks during the weekdays and weekends. The hordes travel by bus, bicycle, boat, car, taxi or paraglider to descend on the beaches and areas of natural beauty. Cantonese, Mandarin, English and pretty much every other major language can be heard. Queues for buses and taxis snake along the narrow footpaths and roads. Admittedly most observe the mask protocols but once off the beaten track the masks are discarded along with pretty much every item of consumable waste imaginable and even more. The beaches and country parks are being treated as a trash can, which is a very disappointing outcome. And this continues unabated. Nonpermitted cars are parked on footpaths and in the hedgerows before the day trippers return to areas where lockdown protocols are more severe. So where does the solution lie? COVID will not be going away anytime soon and the general public must not be naive enough to believe that further waves are not on the horizon, and that it will be back to business as usual and our old ways of life and habits. For Hong Kong to move toward some degree of normality, the authorities need to lift the less meaningful restrictions and replace them with suitable protocols that enable society to begin to operate on a more normal footing, get children safely back to school and people back to work. Knee jerk lockdowns are crippling everyone and undermining Hong Kong. Unless decisive preventative steps are taken as we move toward a lower level of risk, we will find ourselves entering yet another period of severe lockdown when the next wave hits, devastating an already badly battered Hong Kong and further impacting the mental health and wellbeing of increasing numbers of people. The authorities need to provide adequate ongoing testing procedures, diagnostics, track, trace and quarantine measures alongside adequate early warning monitoring. What COVID is teaching us is that we simply cannot rely on everyone in the community to behave in a responsible manner to prevent its spread. Many people do take the required precautions but sadly some people do not. So, whether by intention or otherwise, the problem remains the same and the authorities need to act accordingly. The missing ingredient in most countries around the world is common sense and this has resulted in the loss of life of over , people, devastating families and further derailing economic stability and prosperity. The views do not necessarily reflect those of China Daily. ?