Medical software gains popularity with patients
2020/8/31 0:00
Cloudr, a chronic disease management and smart medical platform, has become a popular and wellaccepted platform by hospitals and patients. Established in , the company developed the software as a service SaaS system targeting diabetes, which aims to promote intelligent management in the hospitals by helping doctors with multidimensional data statistics and analysis and remotely monitor patients after they are discharged. The company began promoting its system in , when most hospitals were still unfamiliar with the service. After technical personnel repeatedly explained the value of the SaaS system and launched many examinations, Nanjing Drum Tower Hospital, a firstclass hospital in Jiangsu province, finally agreed to conduct a trial. To ensure the smooth operation of the system and improve users satisfaction, the personnel stayed at the hospital, helping nurses to solve technical issues, such as data uploading and network instability when testing patients blood sugar. After the hospital used the system for three months, Cloudr went further in its promotion of the system, expanding to other departments. Now, the SaaS system of Cloudr is used in  wards in Nanjing Drum Tower Hospital, optimizing the management of blood sugar, ensuring the accurate data transmission and sharing analysis of the data among departments. An associate chief physician of Nanjing Drum Tower Hospital surnamed Tong said the online platform allows patients to have a fixed and qualified doctor to manage patients condition, and helps to build trust between doctors and their patients. Nanjing Drum Tower Hospital, as one of the first groups to use the system, has helped the company to improve its brand influence quickly. Cloudr also provides services for hospitals in Xinjiang Uygur autonomous region to improve digital management of chronic diseases in Northwest China. The company personalizes its settings according to the situation of the Hospital of Traditional Chinese Medicine in Urumqi and Dushanzi Peoples Hospital in Karamay. It introduced a new version of the system there one with better performance, a faster response rate and a longer standby time. Statistics show that the systems working efficiency has improved after being implemented in hospitals of traditional Chinese medicine. It has helped to save an average of . hours in the detection of blood sugar and  hours on checking blood sugar data for doctors every month. In , the company expanded the businesses scope of the SaaS system, from diabetes to many chronic diseases, such as hypertension and hyperlipidemia. Last year, the company developed a SaaS system for drugstores to provide more compliant and convenient services when patients buy prescription drugs in drugstores or online. Lily Wang, vicepresident of the product department of Cloudr, said Through the application of SaaS system in hospitals and drugstores, we connect hospitals, patients, pharmaceutical companies, insurance companies and other parties of the industrial chain. And Cloudr provides a series of efficient and highquality services for patients from their first visit to their hospitalization, rehabilitation and insurance reimbursement. Thats the most valuable thing we have done, Wang said. According to the company, it has served around , hospitals and , pharmacies in China, covering thousands of patients with chronic diseases. Its revenue reached  billion yuan . million last year. Since the unexpected novel coronavirus outbreak hit China in the beginning of this year, many companies have contributed to fighting against the virus, including Cloudr. Although it was during the Spring Festival, many employees signed up to help the construction of Huoshenshan Hospital in Wuhan in Hubei province. Wuhan was the worst hit city and was lockdown in late January. Four employees from Hubei and surrounding area formed a team going to Wuhan. Yu Tao, a member of the team, said he had to stand up when his hometown faced difficulties, even though he was afraid of the virus. The team helped to move supplies from the distribution center and assemble them in the hotel. Team members connected with Huoshenshan Hospital to promote the construction. They also donated face masks, alcohol disinfection cotton tablets and other materials as efforts to reduce work and ensure the safety of medical staff. On April , Wuhan ended the lockdown and the team had accomplished its mission. caoyingyingchinadaily.com.cn ? ? ? Staff members conduct trainings on Cloudrs SaaS system at the Nanjing Drum Tower Hospital. ? ?