Global MNCs stay bullish on China
2020/8/29 10:18
A photo shows a night view of the CBD area in downtown Beijing, capital of China.  Global multinational companies in the Fortune Global  rankings remain upbeat on China and are setting up new projects and increasing investment in existing facilities despite the hazy global economic outlook due to COVID epidemic headwinds and rising trade friction, experts said. During the first seven months of this year, , new foreigninvested companies were set up in China, up  percent on a yearly basis, according to data provided by the Ministry of Commerce. On Thursday, agreements for  projects involving a total investment of  million from European companies were inked at an online video conference held in Jinan, capital of Shandong province. The projects, which have been mostly funded by German, French, Italian, Austrian, Polish and Swedish companies, cover sectors like highend equipment manufacturing, new materials, modern finance, biotechnology and food manufacturing. The renewed confidence of overseas enterprises stems largely from the helping hand extended by Chinese authorities in matters like investment, production and business operations and has been enhanced by the countrys efforts in ensuring orderly work resumption since the pandemic. This has played an important role in sustaining global supply chains, said the experts. Despite the pandemic effect and trade tensions between China and the United States, nearly  percent of the European companies said in a recent survey that they are keen on setting up bases in Shandong and have no plans to exit the province, said Jens Eskelund, vicepresident of the European Union Chamber of Commerce in China. Since we entered China in the s, we have been witnessing the fast development of China which has developed into one of the most important markets for us, said Sanjiv Lamba, CEO for the AsiaPacific region at Linde Plc, a leading industrial gas manufacturer. In Shandong alone, Linde has set up facilities in four cities. The company plans to add another . billion worth of investment in sectors like highend chemicals and hydrogen energy. Thierry Delmarcelle, chief strategy and innovation officer at global consultancy Deloitte AsiaPacific, said that sound business environment and economic prospects make China attractive to foreign investment. Shandong has formulated and introduced  innovative foreign investment optimization measures, which seek to transform the province into a firstclass business and investment destination with a high degree of internationalization, convenience and innovation,Delmarcelle said. Despite the COVID effect, Shandongs economy has showed strong resilience, he said. Since the outbreak of the epidemic, , foreigninvested enterprises have set up shop in Shandong during the first half of this year, up . percent on a yearly basis, according to data provided by Deloitte. Yang Hua, general manager of Henkels Loctite Co Ltd, an adhesive maker based in Yantai, Shandong, shares a similar opinion.Local authorities made concerted efforts to help us resume production. They sent medical supplies, such as masks and disinfectants, to help us resume production right from the beginning of the epidemic. The quick production resumption helped Henkel to stabilize its global supply chain, covering South Korea, Japan, the US and Germany, Yang said.