Hope and humor in pandemicinspired art
2020/8/28 7:55
Art Next Expo, the only international art fair in Hong Kong dedicated to emerging artists, is back this year, in both its physical and virtual avatars. The current show not only complies with social distancing restrictions, but also features works of art directly inspired by COVID. The VEVE show features works paying tribute to the selfless commitment of frontline medical staff as well as Hong Kong citizens, who have shown their characteristic resilience in dealing with the global health crisis. Despite the negative impact that the pandemic and social distancing have had on the global economy and our daily lives, they have also forced us to reflect on what matters most to us as individuals and as a community, says Judy Inn, director of Art Next and curator of VEVE. She hopes the exhibition will generate some income for struggling art professionals. Like many of us, artists have suffered financially during this difficult time. We hope the exhibition will reconnect them with art collectors and help them get through the challenges they are facing. Inn says the show title is a reference to COVIDs impact on the art world which, she points out, isnt all negative. I think art has become more accessible to people in a way, with museums, art institutions and art fairs more willing and eager to share their content online free of charge. Also, says Inn, the title draws attention to recent developments such as the political symbolism behind wearing face masks getting more ambiguous, the earth becoming a lesspolluted place and more workplaces adopting new technology. Over  works created by around  Hong Kongbased artists are featured in the exhibition. Highlights include Chung Taifus emotive piece, A Salute to Medical Workers Abby Lee Yanyees crosssection of tower block apartments showing residents going about their daily lives Cheung Chinhangs visually arresting Virus Ball Project Black  White Experiment and photographer Kasper Forests latest series TheGhostCity, an eerie image showing a paper doll couple against a backdrop of deserted streets. Inn says the artists tried to capture snapshots of how people have reacted to the whole situation. Chui Puichee, a lecturer in the Department of Fine Arts at Chinese University of Hong Kong and an artist featured in the exhibition, believes that works of art play a significant role in chronicling important historic events as newspapers and books. He says, Art creation is just one of the ways to record and respond to the pandemic at this time. I think all types of documentations are important as the pandemic leaves an indelible mark on everyone on the globe. Chui also believes that art can help lift the collective morale of people in these depressing times, as he has tried to do with paintings titled, Social Distancing  Fxxk off! and Friends of Humble Chamber XXXI  Group Gathering Ban which shows mosquitoes in clusters of not more than two or three across a big canvas. He says, I hope to bring the audience a little black humor during this hard time. Inn hopes that VEVE can provide some respite from the negativity of the current situation. She says, Just as artists have found solace in the process of their creative work, viewers will have the opportunity to seek comfort in the power of art. ? ? ? ?