Economic expert Health code system for crossborder travel vital to HK economy
2020/8/27 17:31
A few people wearing facial masks walk past stores on a business street in Causeway Bay, Hong Kong, on Aug , .  A health code system for crossborder travel is crucial to get Hong Kongs economy rolling again, economic expert Ho Loksang told China Daily. Ho  a senior research fellow at the Pan Sutong ShanghaiHong Kong Economic Policy Research Institute at Lingnan University  said the launch of a health code system that enables Hong Kong residents to travel to the Chinese mainland would be a good start to revitalizing Hong Kongs coronavirushobbled economy. Hong Kong Chief Executive Carrie Lam Cheng Yuetngor said on Friday that the groundwork for a health code system is well underway for people to travel to the mainland once the local outbreak is brought under control. In a system widely used on the mainland, a health code on ones cellphone verifies if the holder has been to highrisk areas. Tourism, a driving force of Hong Kongs economic growth for years, has become lifeless, Ho said in the interview on Monday. By rolling out a health code system, the city could form travel bubbles with lowrisk COVID countries and regions faster, as it could serve as an assurance to the travelers destinations, he added. Amid escalating tension between China and the US, the economic expert admitted that Hong Kongs economic outlook could be pretty gloomy in the short term, but he expected that the adversity will be over soon since the city has resolute backing from the Chinese mainland. Because of the US sanctions, more highprofile mainland companies are looking for a stock relisting, which has certainly benefited Hong Kongs stock market, Ho said. Noting that Hong Kong is a city with a huge concentration of professionals across all sectors such as the legal, accounting, arbitration and engineering fields, Ho said the citys huge talent pool is its unique advantage, and he called on the special administrative region government to capitalize on it. Recalling a Fortune magazine cover story in  that proclaimed the death of Hong Kong, Ho said many Western media outlets have predicted many times before that the mainland and Hong Kong are going to have a grim future. And it never happened, and I dont think its going to happen this time, he said. China is going to march forward. And with China marching forward, the SAR will follow, Ho said.