Yuen calls for lessons to be learned from rd outbreak
2020/8/27 17:30
People wearing masks walk out of a metro station in Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of China on Aug , .  Hong Kong needs to brace itself for another coronavirus outbreak in winter by learning from mistakes made before and during the yettobecontrolled third wave of COVID infections, a top local microbiologist said. The third wave has taught us that stringent border controls, rules in maskoff settings like restaurants, and adequate testing capacity are three things the city should continue to push ahead with before the next local outbreak, said Yuen Kwokyung, chair professor of the Department of Microbiology at the University of Hong Kong. During an interview with China Daily on Tuesday, Yuen said an outbreak in winter, when holiday travel is at its peak, is inevitable in such an open economy, while its severity depends on whether the city can adhere to those three aspects. Another safeguard against future outbreaks is sufficient quarantine and treatment facilities, he added, referring to two temporary facilities with a total of , beds that Chinese mainland authorities are helping to build on Lantau Island. The yearold doctor suggested Hong Kong people get into the habit of using their cellphones to record where they have been and the transport they have used, to help with contact tracing. Hong Kong reported  new COVID cases on Wednesday  all locally transmitted cases and  of unclear origin  one of the lowest daily totals during the third wave. But Yuen cautioned that the third wave has not yet been tamed, because multiple untraceable cases every day indicate that unknown transmission chains in the community still exist. In a few weeks time, the third wave is going away. But dont be complacent. It could come back very easily if all these countermeasures against critical control points are not being instituted. A citywide free coronavirus testing program, meant to find asymptomatic patients, will start from Tuesday, with online registration open on Saturday. Yuen said he supports the testing program, which he believes can alleviate the anxiety of people who want to be tested for fear of exposure, although people would have been more enthusiastic about testing if the program had been introduced when daily cases were at their peak. The free testing, he added, is also a move to reassure mainland cities and neighboring countries and regions that the Hong Kong government is doing its best to ensure the city is relatively free of COVID, so that travel restrictions may be loosened more easily. In addition to isolating silent carriers left in the community, the results of the citywide testing will be of great value to further research, Yuen said. The testing is to find risk factors, such as which geographic location has a higher number of silent carriers? Why are they located there? What are their ages and genders? Where are they working? What are the occupations at risk? he said. After understanding the answers to all these questions, health experts can figure out what should be done in the winter to prevent highrisk groups from getting infected, he continued. The mainland has been handling the pandemic extremely well overall after acknowledging mistakes it had made at the outset, said Yuen, who also codirects the HKUs State Key Laboratory of Emerging Infectious Diseases. The key to the mainlands success lies in its ability to mobilize healthcare workers and immobilize potentially infected people very efficiently, he noted. The massive testing and efficient contact tracing afterward ensure that any resurgence in the outbreak can be reined in. The Chinese mainland has done much better than many developed countries in terms of caseload, death rate and economic recovery. Unfortunately, those countries have failed to learn from its experience, Yuen said. There is an obvious bias from the West, he added. In fact, this bias led to their failures to control their own pandemic problems.