Dollarweary world welcomes the rise of renminbi
2020/8/27 10:04
? A healthcare worker prepares to conduct a coronavirus disease COVID test on a patient at a testing facility in Melbourne, Australia, August , .  CANBERRA  Australias Acting Chief Medical Officer CMO Paul Kelly has described the number of healthcare staff who have caught COVID as unacceptable. Kelly said on Wednesday afternoon that the federal government was seeking the best expert advice on how to protect workers in highrisk settings from the virus. Its unacceptable that so many people have been infected, he told reporters. We need to really understand thats why the case and what else can we be doing as a nation to protect our healthcare workers, our aged care workers, our disability workers who are on that frontline of caring for people with COVID, and therefore at higher risk. At the peak of Victorias second wave of infections earlier in August, healthcare workers accounted for about  percent of the states active cases of COVID. Kelly said that it was absolutely fundamental that health authorities identify the main risk factor responsible for the infections. And an important finding of this particular work is that  to  percent  according to the Victorian report at least  were in healthcare settings, he said. So, was that at the bedside? Was it in some other parts of the hospital? What else can we learn about those particular issues so that we can protect our healthcare workers? People should be able to go to work and feel safe from harm, and thats a really important component. His comments came about one week after the Australian Medical Association AMA criticized the government for providing healthcare workers with illfitting face masks. Omar Khorshid, president of the AMA, said that medical workers caring for COVID patients had not been properly fitted for masks, leaving them exposed to the virus. Its a basic requirement for workplace safety that is not being observed in most states, Khorshid told the Guardian Australia. Many state health departments have completely dropped the ball on healthcare workers safety and appear to be wilfully ignoring repeated calls from clinicians to make sure that everybody who is likely to be the frontlines, and likely to be required to wear an N mask, is being properly fittested, Its something that must be achieved and its appalling that it hasnt been done already.