Living on the breadline
2021/9/4 21:49
Foreign domestic workers in Hong Kong find themselves in a financial quagmire as pandemic takes its toll on their lives. Wang Yuke reports from Hong Kong. Foreign domestic workers rest and chat on a footbridge in Mong Kok on their day off. PHOTO PROVIDED TO CHINA DAILY I have been struggling to pay for my sons therapies and medical bills since COVID struck. Im at the end of my rope. But I know that no matter what, I need the money to ensure he will get through, said Jota, a Filipino domestic worker, who has been working in Hong Kong for  years. Jota has been grappling to make ends meet since the pandemic hit early last year. Although life is gradually returning to normal, she is still suffering from the financial and emotional shocks. Jota, who declined to reveal her full name, is not alone in trying to get out of the quagmire. A survey conducted by HelperChoice and Enrich HK from May to June showed that  percent of  foreign domestic workers polled have been financially affected by the pandemic. More than  percent blamed higher expenses and having to send more money back to their families for their plight. HelperChoice is Hong Kongs first online platform aimed at linking up foreign domestic workers with prospective employers without having to go to a recruitment agency, while Enrich HK is a charity group dedicated to promoting the economic wellbeing of domestic workers in the city. Zamira Monteiro, communications manager of Enrich HK, described the number of foreign domestic workers in dire financial straits as staggering and in line with what she had observed. Many foreign domestic workers are sole breadwinners and the only source of income for their families as many family members have lost their jobs due to the bleak economic climate, Monteiro said. In the Philippines, the jobless rate is very high at . percent. So the domestic workers have to send more money home to help their families ride it out. Betty Wagner wearing blue mask, case manager at HELP for Domestic Workers, an outreach program at St Johns Cathedral Hong Kong that offers assistance to foreign domestic workers, talks to Mary Lobo in pink top, one such worker. PHOTO PROVIDED TO CHINA DAILY Aggravated burden Jota said her son was hit by a motorcycle in April   his left leg was broken and his brain severely damaged  aggravating her familys nightmare. He was catapulted into a hole and the sheer impact on his brain impaired his nervous system, affecting his mobility. Weekly medical consultations and therapies have become part of her sons life since the accident, taking up a huge chunk of the familys income. Her sons medical bill comes to about HK, US monthly, while Jota earns just HK, a month in Hong Kong. Fate has been cruel to Jota. As she was barely scraping through to cover her sons medical expenses, her husband fell from a tree, fracturing his back. I didnt have even a penny to spare for my husbands hospitalization. Runaway inflation with skyrocketing commodity prices amid lengthy lockdowns in the Philippines has piled financial pressure on Jota. Besides the medical spending on her son and husband, she takes care of her three other sons cellphone bills of about HK each month. The pandemic has made her bankrupt. Fortunately, her inlaws offered to help out using government subsidies. Jota said she is very stressful and desperate. Since joining Gabriela Hong Kong  a nongovernmental organization committed to promoting the rights and welfare of Filipino women  Jota has been relying on it to seek calmness and a sense of belonging, and to alleviate her pain, sorrow, loneliness, homesickness and anxiety. It has helped her to cope with the situation, she said. The hard times have also forced many expatriate employers to quit Hong Kong, leaving their domestic workers in the lurch. Some local employers are in the same boat, unable to keep their domestic workers, rendering them jobless overnight. We have seen even sound employeremployee relationships on the rocks. The domestic workers come to us for help or mediation in thrashing out the settlement terms with their employers, especially when their contracts were abruptly terminated because of the financial hardships of either their bosses or themselves, said Manisha Wijesinghe, executive director of HELP for Domestic Workers  an outreach program at St Johns Cathedral Hong Kong that provides advice and help concerning employment and other issues to migrant domestic workers in the city. Mary Lobo is a beneficiary of HELP for Domestic Workers assistance. The organization provided mediation on problems between Lobo and her employer and helped her search for new job. PHOTO PROVIDED TO CHINA DAILY According to some workers, they had not been paid for over six months after their employers lost their jobs amid the pandemic. They were perplexed about how and where to get their money back, especially the newcomers, said Wijesinghe. Mary Lobo, a beneficiary of HELP for Domestic Workers, said she had been mistreated by her employer. I was given only leftovers to eat and just HK every month as food allowance. Under Hong Kong labor laws, foreign domestic workers are entitled to a food allowance of HK, per month. They verbally insulted me every day, criticizing me for being smelly, dirty and disgusting. I was hurt and felt enslaved. Lobos employer terminated the contract, which was somewhat of a relief for her because it ended her trauma. I had to put up with it for more than  months. I just couldnt take it anymore, she said. But her heart sunk at the thought of having to find a new employer within  days, or she would have to return to the Philippines. Some domestic workers at the end of their tether ended up taking loans from unscrupulous moneylenders who prey on the vulnerable by offering them too good to be true deals, Monteiro said. This aggravates their financial situation. According to the survey conducted by HelperChoice and Enrich HK, nearly  percent of foreign domestic workers said they had borrowed from moneylenders, with  percent claiming they were charged an interest rate of than . percent annually, which exceeds Hong Kongs maximum legal annual interest rate of  percent per annum. Huge stress has pushed some domestic workers to the verge of deep anxiety and depression. A survey jointly conducted by Medecins Sans Frontieres and local nonprofit organization Uplifters late last year showed that  percent of foreign domestic workers polled had depressionrelated symptoms. Wijesinghe also noted a rise in the number of domestic workers seeking mental support around Christmas last year when they normally would have gone home. Their community support networks were gone as church and Sunday gatherings were banned. Foreign domestic workers gather on a street in Central last September. PHOTO PROVIDED TO CHINA DAILY Badly needed support Amid financial and job insecurity, however, they can barely find a person who is impartial and helpful and can put their hearts at ease, said Mahee Leclerc, general manager of HelperChoice. Its awkward for them to talk about it with their employers. They dont want to discuss it with their friends either for fear their friends might have a vested interest in their finances. Its also uncomfortable for them to raise the problem with their families who might force them to make some financial decisions, or they just dont want to make their families worry. Apart from financial problems and being jobless, domestic workers are worn out physically and mentally due to mounting workloads as children are cooped up at home, creating extra work for them. Although, sometimes they were not told to do extra work, they felt obliged to do it and this is implicit stress, Wijesinghe said. Even on their days off, some workers had to heed their employers advice to stay at home to avoid being infected by or spreading the coronavirus, Leclerc said. Gathering with friends once a week is the most treasured social time for the workers but, in many cases, they have been deprived of this due to the public health crisis. Living with their employers almost every day instead of taking holiday breaks on Sundays has deepened their stress, she said. Intervention is badly needed to prevent a repeat of tragic incidents, such as the case of a yearold Filipino domestic worker who committed suicide in Yuen Long in April last year. Although the Hospital Authority provides mental health services for the public during the pandemic, it is inundated with requests from local residents and has to give priority to those with severe symptoms. Foreign domestic workers needs were allegedly largely left unattended. Sometimes, they just need an outlet or company to vent their frustrations. That is where our services come in, said Wijesinghe, referring to the group support and oneonone counselling provided by HELP for Domestic Workers during the pandemic. The measures aim to prevent the mental stress of domestic workers from increasing and leading to irreversible consequences. If needed, we will refer them to psychiatric services. Such challenges are not new to Hong Kongs ethnic minority, but the pandemic has aggravated the situation, Wijesinghe said. Improving the wellbeing and seeking justice for domestic workers, as well as fomenting societal inclusiveness, have come a long way in Hong Kong. But discrimination against the ethnic minority is far from being eradicated. Stigmatization and marginalization of foreign domestic workers remains a scar in Hong Kong society, and has manifested itself throughout the pandemic, said Karen Grepin, associate professor of public health at the University of Hong Kong, who recently researched the pandemics impact on domestic workers and women. They were singled out for compulsory testing although there is no evidence that domestic workers face a greater risk of contracting and transmitting COVID than the general public, she said. The Hong Kong government has also ruled that only foreign domestic workers vaccinated in Hong Kong can travel between the city and the Philippines. The government has never mandated any similar policy on vaccines given in any other country, suggesting that maids are being specifically targeted, Grepin argued. While Jota considers herself lucky that she hasnt experienced any humiliation in Hong Kong so far, her friends have. A Filipino friend of mine was splashed with dirty water by a vendor when she bought food at a street market. Its inhuman, she claimed. Jota blames her meager wage for her financial woes. The government had raised the monthly minimum wage for foreign domestic helpers to HK, in  from HK, the year before. An increase of just HK doesnt really help, she said. With the statutory minimum wage set at HK. per hour, Jota is upset that foreign domestic workers arent being reasonably paid. We are  hours on call but underpaid. We find ourselves being excluded and discriminated against in terms of income. Foreign domestic workers have also been left out of the governments cash payouts to eligible Hong Kong residents, as well as the fiscal stimulus packages to prop up the local economy. But to address the underlying problem of discrimination, maybe we should start with changing how the minority group is termed. We could refer to the minority group as migrant domestic workers instead of foreign domestic workers, Wijesinghe suggested. The subtle change will send a positive message that the minority communitys problems are not foreign to Hong Kong.