Chinese firm wins deal to construct Zambian feeder roads
2020/8/26 10:30
? US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo speaks to reporters in New York, US, August , .  US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, in his recent speech at the Richard Nixon Presidential Library, negated every aspect of ChinaUS relations, maliciously attacked the leadership of the Communist Party of China CPC and Chinas political system, and attempted to drive a wedge between the CPC and the Chinese people. He also wantonly criticized Chinas domestic and foreign policies, spread the socalled China threat, and called for an antiChina alliance to contain Chinas development. Pompeos baseless, factdistorting speech misrepresents history and the reality. It is full of ideological prejudice and driven by a ColdWar mentality. His remarks have not only been condemned by the Chinese people, but also criticized and opposed by sensible people in the United States as well as the international community. To debunk the lies fabricated by Pompeo, let the facts speak for themselves. Rumor Mike Pompeo The Chinese ConsulateGeneral in Houston is a hub of spying and intellectual property theft. Fact The United States fabricated false charges and forcibly closed the Chinese ConsulateGeneral in Houston, with the aim of pushing for a decoupling between China and the United States. It is an important part of the US strategy to suppress China and is strongly opposed by the vast majority of rational Americans.  The ConsulateGeneral in Houston was the first Chinese consular mission opened in the United States following the establishment of ChinaUS diplomatic ties. In the past  years, it has worked hard to promote friendship and cooperation between the two peoples, and enhance mutual understanding and allround cooperation between the two countries in various sectors. While COVID raged on in the southern US states, the ConsulateGeneral donated masks to Houston and Harris County, and assisted Shanghai Municipality, Shandong Province and Shenzhen City of China in donating medical supplies to Houston.  The composition and number of the staff at the ConsulateGeneral in Houston was open information to the US side. To accuse the ConsulateGeneral as the hub of Chinese spying and intellectual property theft runs against the common sense in diplomacy. Reports from Cable News Network CNN, Columbia Broadcasting System CBS, The Houston Chronicle and British Broadcasting Corporation BBC showed that closing the Chinese ConsulateGeneral prior to the election was a measure by Trump to play tough on China, hold up his declining approval rating and turn China into a convenient target to vilify and shore up votes. The New York Times questioned the assertion that the Houston ConsulateGeneral had a history of engaging in subversive behavior and was the epicenter of research theft in the United States, and believes that there is no evidence to support this allegation. Shocked by the decision of the US government, Houston Mayor Sylvester Turner expressed his hope that whatever the friction may be between the United States and China it can be resolved peacefully and that at some point in time the ConsulateGeneral will reopen.  An editorial of The Houston Chronicle said China is the secondlargest trading partner of the Houston region, and the region has benefited greatly from having the ConsulateGeneral in the city. For more than  years, the Chinese ConsulateGeneral has served as a symbolic bridge, facilitating travel, trade and cultural ties between Houston and China.