EAC states urged to fasttrack DR Congos admission
2020/8/26 10:02
? Sanzhar Saberbekov delivers a meal to a customer in NurSultan, Kazakhstan, Aug , .  Editors note This news column showcases stories from around the world that bring a touch of positivity to the fight against the deadly coronavirus. NURSULTANSanzhar Saberbekov has been bustling across the Kazakh capital NurSultan, getting on and off his bike to drop off groceries and food from a backpack for those sheltering from COVID at home. A yearold college student, Saberbekov joined a growing legion of delivery riders six months ago, hoping to get some pocket money and be financially independent from his parents. After the coronavirus outbreak in Kazakhstan in March, Saberbekov chose to continue to be a freelance rider for Glovo, a global ondemand delivery service platform. Of course, everyone is afraid of going out amid the pandemic. I am not a reckless person but I believe my work is important in such a difficult situation, he said. Kazakhstan recorded over , COVID cases and , deaths as of Tuesday. It has been hit hardest by the virus among the five Central Asian countries and imposed two nationwide lockdowns to curb the raging virus. We deliver food, medicines and other groceries within hours to our customers. Takeaway food accounts for most of deliveries, Saberbekov said, adding that Glovo has intensified disinfection measures by providing riders with face masks, gloves and antiseptics every two weeks. Saberbekov works from  am to  pm every day to meet the different demands of clients. During the second lockdown, there was a shortage of medicines in pharmacies. After customers ordered medicines via the Glovo app, we were looking for drugs in various pharmacies. It feels so nice to bring medicines to the needy and get their appreciation, he said. Some of our customers were infected with COVID. They called to warn us that they were ill. Usually they asked us to leave their stuff at the door of their homes, said the courier. According to Glovo, the number of orders from the Glovo app has increased by  percent across Kazakhstan amid the pandemic. About  percent of orders were done through online payments. Now over , couriers work for Glovo in the country. Saberbekov said during the lockdown, he could earn an average of , tenge about  per day. Deliverymen are needed when people cannot go out for daily necessities. Our work cannot only bring in muchneeded cash for us but also help the country weather this crisis, he said. Ecommerce development Kazakhstan is a relative latecomer to online shopping but the epidemic has been a catalyst for its ecommerce development. The trade and integration ministry said that in the first half of , the ecommerce retail business in the country grew by more than  percent from a year ago. The ministry estimated that the ecommerce market will reach  billion tenge by the end of , and . trillion tenge by , accounting for about  percent of the countrys retail business, compared with . percent for . Xinhua