Is the Chinese ConsulateGeneral in Houston a hub of spying?
2020/8/26 8:55
Residents walk in a community in Urumqi, Xinjiang Uygur autonomous region, on Monday. The city relaxed its epidemic control policy to allow residents in epidemicfree neighborhoods to walk within their communities.?CAI ZENGLEXINJIANG DAILY Urumqi, capital of Xinjiang Uygur autonomous region, has relaxed pandemic control measures for some infectionfree residential communities since Sunday as the recent outbreak of COVID infections eases in the city. The adjustment covers all residential communities in Dabancheng district, Urumqi county and the Ganquanpu Economic Development Zone, as well as several infectionfree neighborhoods in six other districts, the citys epidemic prevention and control headquarters said on Monday in a notice. With pandemic control measures in place, supermarkets, convenience stores and produce markets are permitted to resume operations during specified hours, the notice said. Residents can move freely in their residential communities with strengthened pandemic control measures, it said. They are required to wear masks, maintain a physical distance between individuals, and avoid gatherings and visiting each others homes, while community workers will carry out cleanings and disinfections of public areas at least six times a day. The epidemic prevention and control headquarters will gradually increase the number of infectionfree communities with relaxed control measures in a prudent and scientific way, it added. On July , Urumqi confirmed one new COVID case, leading the city to impose lockdown measures that have been in place since July  in its residential communities and villages. By Monday, Xinjiang had  confirmed cases and  asymptomatic cases, all in Urumqi, and , people were still under medical observation, according to the regional health commission. From July  to Monday, a total of  COVID patients were discharged from hospital in the region after recovering, and  asymptomatic cases were released from medical observation. No newly confirmed or asymptomatic cases have been reported in Xinjiang since Aug . Li Tao, a resident at the citys Shaybak district, said he is glad that he can move freely in the community. Urumqi has survived the pandemic, and we have triumphed, he said. During the lockdown, the government has made great efforts to provide daily necessities and free medicine to people in need, Li said. Although we still cannot leave the community, being able to buy groceries by ourselves will alleviate the workload of volunteers and communities, he explained. I am sure we can return to normal life soon. Xinhua contributed to this story.