Trump skeptical of mail ballots
2020/8/25 10:50
? US President Donald Trump gestures after addressing the first day of the Republican National Convention after delegates voted to confirm him as the Republican  presidential nominee for reelection, in Charlotte, North Carolina, US, August , .  US President Donald Trump, while making an unannounced appearance Monday as the Republican National Convention opened in Charlotte, North Carolina, raised doubts about the Nov  election. Officially nominated Monday for a second term, Trump said the only way they can take this election away from us is if this is a rigged election. Trump repeated his claim that voting by mail, which will be much more common during the novel coronavirus pandemic, could lead to fraud in the handling of ballots. What theyre doing is using COVID to steal an election, Trump said in Charlotte. Theyre using COVID to defraud the American people  all of our people  of a fair and free election. The Trump campaign has sued the state of New Jersey, which will send mailin ballots to all registered voters. Democrats, who have generally supported voting by mail, arguing that the pandemic has necessitated it, maintain that the US Postal Service is unprepared to handle a massive influx of ballots, which some estimates put at  percent of the  electorate. They contend that changes during Postmaster General Louis DeJoys tenure are causing widespread delays, but Republicans dismiss the concerns as part of a conspiracy against Trump. Either through gross incompetence, you have ended the year history of delivering the mail reliably on time, Representative Stephen Lynch, a Massachusetts Democrat, said at a contentious Capitol Hill hearing Monday. Or ... youre doing this on purpose and deliberately dismantling this onceproud tradition. I am not engaged in sabotaging the election, DeJoy told lawmakers. A major Republican donor, DeJoy said that like the president, he plans to vote by mail. DeJoy, who has led the USPS since June, said that election mail is his No.  priority and that he will authorize expanded overtime, extra truck trips and other measures before the election to ensure timely delivery of ballots. The Democraticled House on Saturday voted to prevent DeJoy from taking action that would impede service until January, and to provide  billion in funding, although DeJoy said last week that no changes would happen until after the election. The legislation is not expected to advance in the Republicancontrolled Senate, and Trump has threatened to veto it. The convention kicked off with a day of official business in Charlotte before it moves to Washington DC for primetime programming. Trump, , plans to speak every day of the fourday convention, in contrast to his Democratic opponent, former vicepresident Joe Biden, , who made brief taped appearances before his minute acceptance speech last Thursday. Partisan critics have said that Trump is making the show all about him. At the Charlotte Convention Center on Monday, only  delegates sat at wellspaced tables, and masks were mandatory in response to the pandemic. The Democrats held an allvirtual convention last week, but the Republicans persisted in having some sort of physical gathering. The contrast is emblematic of the differences in approach to pandemicrelated lockdowns by blue Democratled and red Republicanrun states. Trump also criticized North Carolinas Democratic governor, Roy Cooper, for measures implemented to contain the virus, which has killed more than , people in the US and infected millions. The president accused Cooper of being in a total shutdown mode and claimed the restrictions were aimed at trying to hurt his campaign. The  delegates  six from each of the  states, the District of Columbia and US territories  were invited to cast proxy votes on behalf of the more than , regular delegates. Attendees also are being tested onsite and have been asked to maintain a foot .meter distance from other people and to use face coverings. The RNC said it would contact participants five,  and  days after the event to check on potential symptoms. Republicans also approved a handful of resolutions, including one that backs Columbus Day as a federal holiday and another that labels the Southern Poverty Law Center, which monitors the countrys hate groups, as a radical organization. Another resolution targets cancel culture, warning that it has grown into erasing of history, encouraging lawlessness, muting citizens and violating free exchange of ideas, thoughts, and speech. Most of the GOP convention will take place in Washington at and around the White House, as well as by video. What they wont hear is what American families have urgently needed and been forced to go without for over seven consecutive months any coherent strategy for defeating the pandemic, Biden campaign spokesman Andrew Bates said. Among the Republicans scheduled to speak Monday were Tim Scott, an African American US senator who represents South Carolina, a state whose black vote helped reverse Bidens onceslumping fortunes in the Democratic primaries. Trump is looking to increase his share of the black vote and has stressed the communitys record low unemployment rate before the pandemic. Kim Klacik, , a black woman from Baltimore who is running for Congress, also was scheduled to speak, as was Donald Trump Jr. First lady Melania Trump will speak Tuesday from the Rose GardenVicePresident Mike Pence will talk from Fort McHenry in Baltimore on Wednesday and the president will deliver his acceptance speech on Thursday from the South Lawn of the White House. Neither expresident George W. Bush nor  Republican presidential nominee Senator Mitt Romney of Utah, who voted to convict Trump at the presidents impeachment trial in February, will be convention speakers. The Associated Press and Reuters contributed to this story.