China says some US politicians true colors will be seen
2020/8/25 9:48
? John Nkengasong, Africas Director of the Centers for Disease Control CDC, speaks during an interview with Reuters at the African Union AU Headquarters in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia on March , .  African countries are gradually reducing rates of coronavirus infections, prompting guarded optimism from the continents peak health agency that the pandemic is coming under control. John Nkengasong, director of the Africa Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, or Africa CDC, said the continent is recording a slight decrease in infection rates. Nkengasong, in a statement issued by the African Union on Saturday, said that over the past week Africa had reported an average of , new cases a day, compared to , the week before and , the previous week. Still, Nkengasong advised Africans to increase the use of masks and remain vigilant on social distancing, while urging authorities to ramp up testing as countries begin to ease lockdown measures. We do not want the population to show prevention fatigue. We are dealing with a delicate virus that can easily flare up again very quickly, as has been witnessed in other parts of the world, he said. Africa had recorded ,, cases and , deaths by Monday. According to the Africa CDC, five countries account for  percent of all cases in the continent, led by South Africa with  percent, Egypt  percent, and Nigeria, Morocco and Ghana each with  percent. Despite being the hardesthit country in Africa with over , cases and , deaths, South Africa has eased most of the restrictions imposed on people. On Aug , President Cyril Ramaphosa said the number of new cases is dropping and that infection rates have peaked in several provinces, including Western Cape, Eastern Cape, Gauteng and KwaZuluNatal. The Africa CDC said Africa is working toward the concept of trusted testing for coronavirus in order to enable safer crossborder travel. This will entail mutual recognition of certified coronavirus test procedures among the member states. Nkengasong said a scheme known as the Partnership for Increased Coronavirus Testing will be used to enhance surveillance of people across a range of economic sectors. Rolled out in June when the continent had conducted fewer than , tests, the initiative began with a target of  million tests across the continent. Some ,, tests have since been conducted. Nkengasong said a new target of  million tests by the beginning of November has been set, with officials aiming to capitalize on the gains so far.