Violence continues as mobs clash in Portland
2020/8/25 0:00
With a police station set on fire, police in Portland, Oregon, declared a riot and dispersed protesters with tear gas on Sunday night after having the day before stepped back as warring armed groups clashed in pitched battles on the streets of the city. The fire burned an awning of the police building late on Sunday, news outlets reported. Police ordered demonstrators to clear the area, saying that rocks and glass bottles had been thrown at officers, as well as lasers pointed in their direction. Violent demonstrations have consumed the Pacific Northwest city in the United States following the May  death of George Floyd at the hands of Minneapolis police. Portland police said they have declared a riot at least  times since May . Rally held On Saturday afternoon, more than  rightwing activists, including the Proud Boys and armed militia, went to Portland to hold a Back the Blue propolice rally in front of the building that houses the downtown police precinct. Hundreds of antifa and Black Lives Matter protesters showed up to oppose them. Some in the rightwing crowd were armed with paintball guns, metal rods, bats, fireworks, pepper spray and guns. Those in the leftwing group met them with rocks, fireworks and bottles with chemical solutions. Both groups also carried shields and wore helmets, The Washington Post reported. They engaged for more than two hours, exchanging punches, lofting paintballs and dispersing chemicals. Portland police made several announcements over loudspeakers, encouraging the combatants to selfmonitor for criminal activity, the Post reported. Each skirmish appeared to involve willing participants and the events were not enduring in time, so officers were not deployed to intervene, the Portland Police Bureau said. PPB members have been the focus of over  days of violent actions directed at the police, which is a major consideration for determining if police resources are necessary to interject between two groups with individuals who appear to be willingly engaging in physical confrontations for short durations, the bureau said. Inadequate resources While the activity in the group met the definition of a riot, PPB did not declare one because there were not adequate police resources available to address such a declaration. The citys police have labored to control confrontations between the diametrically opposed groups for three years. The rightwing crowd chanted USA! USA! and chants against antifa, the Post reported. The opposing leftists countered with shouts of Go home, Nazis. Between  and  officers were reassigned from precincts to assist, delaying responses to other emergency calls in the city, it said. Police had also declared a riot just before midnight on Saturday after a group of about  peoplemany of them wearing black and carrying shields, helmets and gas maskstried to march on a government building that has been the scene of violence during the nearly three months of nightly protests. Police made  arrests in that event. Shootings also are up in the city, as a man in Southeast Portland early on Sunday became the eighth person shot in five days, The Oregonian newspaper reported. Portland police reported in July that except for March, the number of shootings each month has been higher this year than in . The total number of shootings in June and July has doubled from the previous year. Fifteen people were killed in Portland last month, the highest number in one month in the city of , in more than three decades, and  of them were fatally shot. Political tempers also flared when US Attorney General William Barr sent in federal officers early in July to protect a US courthouse there. The federal presence was opposed by Oregon politicians and Democrats in Washington, accusing Trump of looking to score political points. But the violence has persisted after most of the federal forces have left. The Republicans, who will hold their national convention this week, are expected to highlight the trouble in Portland and other US cities such as Chicago and New York, and criticized the Democrats for not denouncing it at their convention last week. The county prosecutor, Mike Schmidt, who took office on Aug , dismissed charges against more than half of about  people arrested in the protests, The New York Times reported. The objective, Schmidt told the Times, is to balance peoples righteous anger and grief and fury over a system that has not really been responsive enough for decades and centuries while trying to prevent property damage and violence. Agencies contributed to the story. hengweilichinadailyusa.com ? Rightwing groups left and Portland antipolice protesters fire pepper spray and throw objects at each other as the two sides clashed in front of the Multnomah County Justice Center on Saturday in Portland, Oregon. NATHAN HOWARDAFP ? ?