Pompeos facttwisting China speech versus the truth
2020/8/24 22:32
Preface US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, in his recent speech at the Richard Nixon Presidential Library, negated every aspect of ChinaUS relations, maliciously attacked the leadership of the Communist Party of China CPC and Chinas political system, and attempted to drive a wedge between the CPC and the Chinese people. He also wantonly criticized Chinas domestic and foreign policies, spread the socalled China threat, and called for an antiChina alliance to contain Chinas development. Pompeos baseless, factdistorting speech misrepresents history and the reality. It is full of ideological prejudice and driven by a ColdWar mentality. His remarks have not only been condemned by the Chinese people, but also criticized and opposed by sensible people in the United States as well as the international community. US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo speaks to reporters following a meeting with members of the UN Security Council at UN headquarters in New York, US, August , .  To debunk the lies fabricated by Pompeo, let the facts speak for themselves. . Mike Pompeo The Chinese people are completely distinct from the Chinese Communist Party CCP. The biggest lie that they tell is to think that they speak for . billion people. The CCP fears the Chinese peoples honest opinions more than any foe. False. Fact check The Communist Party of China CPC does not have any special interest of its own. It takes seeking happiness for the Chinese people and rejuvenation for the Chinese nation as its original aspiration and founding mission. It represents the fundamental interests of the greatest possible majority of the Chinese people and remains dedicated to wholeheartedly serving the people. The CPC believes that all is by the people and for the people. It puts the peoples interests first, with safeguarding the peoples interests as the starting point and ultimate goal of all of its work. Under the leadership of the CPC, the Chinese people have won independence, freedom and liberation, and continued to make great achievements in the process of national construction and development.  The CPC comes from the people and is rooted in the people. The CPCs position of leadership is the choice of history and the people. Since its founding  years ago, the CPC has grown from a small party with just more than  members to a large party with nearly  million members. The CPC is deeply rooted in the Chinese people and closely linked to them, and has maintained its great vitality. By the end of , the CPC had . million members and . million applicants for Party membership. It is the worlds largest party that governs the worlds most populous country on a longterm basis. No one can turn a blind eye to the fact that the CPC is supported by the Chinese people. James Palmer, senior editor with the US magazine Foreign Policy, noted that the CPC is deeply woven into the fabric of ordinary Chinese life. It is a common belief that without the party, there would be no new China and trust in the CPC is the mainstream public opinion in China.  Kishore Mahbubani, a professor at the National University of Singapore and former Singaporean ambassador to the United Nations, wrote, in an article carried by The National Interest, that while Pompeo claimed that the Chinese people are completely distinct from the CPC, the fact is that each year a large number of Chinese apply to join the CPC and only a small number of them get in, making it as difficult to join the CPC as it is to get into leading universities in America. The CPC is not a party about to crack up under American pressure as it is floating on an ocean of legitimacy among . billion Chinese people.  The CPC upholds a thinking of development that puts the people in the center. Under the leadership of the CPC, China has seen its per capita GDP increase from less than  yuan in the early s to more than , yuan today, the basic needs of nearly . billion people well met, impoverished population drop by  million, employment provided for  million people, and basic support extended to the  million elderly people,  million people with disabilities and more than  million urban and rural people living on subsistence allowance. China, with a population of nearly . billion, has made a historic leap forward from poverty, to a life of subsistence and to one of moderate prosperity. China has put in place the worlds largest systems for education, social security, health care and democratic elections at the primary level.  Since the COVID outbreak, the CPC and the Chinese government have put the people and their lives front and center, saving lives at all costs and protecting peoples health and safety. Everything possible has been done to treat every patient, whether he or she is  years old or a newborn baby. China has scored major strategic achievements in bringing the virus under control. Chinas economic growth shifted from negative to positive territory in the second quarter this year, up . percent. Chinas economy is seeing the resumption of growth and steady recovery. Experts from the Institute of International Finance, UBS and other wellknown international institutions, as well as media outlets, have expressed optimism about Chinas economic prospects.  At the height of the COVID epidemic when the peoples lives and safety were in grave danger, upon a call for action from the CPC Central Committee, Party members and officials came to the fore. More than . million primarylevel Party organizations operated in full gear. From racing against the clock to save more lives in intensive care units to visiting urban and rural communities for possible infections, from working overtime for production of supplies in factory workshops to pursuing a breakthrough in virus research at laboratories, more than  million Party members had been working day and night at the frontline to fight the epidemic. In this process, nearly  Party members laid down their lives, as they, together with other CPC members, faced danger squarely. The Party flag has always flown high at the front line. All of these speak to the fact that CPC organizations at all levels have acted as strong bastions against the virus and Party members and officials have played an exemplary role. They are the mainstay of the country in this fight.  In August , Ipsos, a wellknown market research company in the world, released a report titled What Worries the World. It found that China led the world in national optimism as  percent of its people believe that their country is going on the right track. China claimed the top spot in  countries surveyed, leaving the United States far behind in the ranking.  In May , Edelman, a renowned communications firm headquartered in the United States, updated its report of Trust Barometer. It revealed that the Chinese people have  percent trust in their government, making the country the top of the countries surveyed, whereas the United States was placed next to last, in the territory of distrust.  In July , the Ash Center for Democratic Governance and Innovation at Harvard Kennedy School made public a survey titled Understanding CCP Resilience Surveying Chinese Public Opinion Through Time. It found that Chinese citizen satisfaction with government has increased virtually across the board since , and people in poorer, inland regions are actually comparatively more likely to report increases in satisfaction. Breakdown data also showed a nearuniversal upturn in the peoples satisfaction toward all four levels of government from  to , with approval ratings running as high as . percent.  The China Data Lab in the University of California, San Diego, recently released an article, saying that the Chinese publics trust in and support of their government have grown from strength to strength. They have significantly rallied since the outbreak of the COVID epidemic. According to this survey, as of May , the average level of trust in the central government has jumped to . on a scale of one to , and  percent of respondents agreed or strongly agreed to the statement that they prefer living under Chinas political system as compared to others.  Unlike what the CPC has done for the people in coping with COVID, politicians in the United States held on to the primacy of personal political gains and capital first. To this end, they played down the epidemic, ignored science, and even resorted to blame game. The result is a major outbreak that has taken a heavy toll on Americans lives and health. According to media tallies in May, more than one third of coronavirus deaths in Americas  states came from nursing homes. By Aug. , the United States had recorded a cumulative total of . million confirmed cases, more than  times of that in China. More than , people had died, equivalent to about  deaths per million, which were  times and  times the corresponding numbers in China. With a population of four percent of the worlds total, the United States made up  percent of global infections and  percent of global deaths. The publics anxiety has continued to climb up. Some  percent of Americans in a recent poll reported feeling very concerned or somewhat concerned about the virus. A latest NPRIpsos poll released on Aug.  found that two thirds of respondents said they believe the United States is handling the epidemic worse than other countries. Among them,  percent contended that the countrys performance is much worse than that of other countries, while  percent rated the performance as being somewhat worse. Americans have come to a pretty dire place in the combat, said a pollster with Ipsos, and they are looking for sweeping, really broad, powerful action. The US economy has suffered a heavy blow as its GDP contracted at an annualized rate of . percent in the second quarter, the deepest drop in output since record began in . Fitch, one of the three major credit rating agencies in the world, revised its outlook on the countrys sovereign rating from stable to negative. . Mike Pompeo China is not a free country, as . billion Chinese are surveilled and oppressed. China is repeating some of the same mistakes that the Soviet Union made  rejecting property rights and predictable rule of law. False. Fact check China practices socialism with Chinese characteristics. An essential feature of the socialist democracy is that the people are the masters of the country. The socialist political system with Chinese characteristics upholds the unity of Party leadership, the running of the country by the people, and lawbased governance, and features enhancing institutional safeguards for the running of the country by the people.  China achieved freedom from the oppression of imperialism and colonialism. Freedom, democracy and rule of law are codified in Chinas Constitution. They are also part of the core values of socialism with Chinese characteristics. In , the th CPC National Congress committed to ...ensuring that the people enjoy extensive rights and freedom endowed by law, and respecting and guaranteeing human rights. In , respecting and guaranteeing of human rights was added into the CPC Constitution for the first time. In , the th CPC National Congress established Xi Jinping Thought on Socialism with Chinese Characteristics for a New Era as the guiding thinking of the CPC, and categorically stated that the CPC should strengthen legal protection for human rights to ensure that the people enjoy extensive rights and freedoms as prescribed by law, and stressed protecting peoples personal rights, property rights, and right to dignity. The Chinese government earnestly respects and fully protects the human rights and freedoms of Chinese citizens in accordance with Chinas Constitution and other laws.  On May , , the third session of the th National Peoples Congress adopted the Civil Code of the Peoples Republic of China, representing an important milestone in the countrys advancement of socialist rule of law in the new era. With seven parts, , articles and more than , words, the civil code was compiled based on systematically incorporating and modifying existing civil laws and regulations formulated in different periods, including the general principles of the civil law and laws on real rights, contract, guarantee, marriage, adoption, inheritance, tort liability and personality rights. It adjusts personal and property relations between natural persons, legal persons and other civil subjects, and provides equal protection of rights in various areas including safeguarding life and health, property safety, convenient transactions, peoples happiness and dignity.  China safeguards freedom of religious belief in accordance with the law. The country has nearly  million religious believers, more than , clerical personnel, and about , places of worship registered for religious activities. The scriptures of Islam, Buddhism and Christianity among other religions have been translated, published and distributed in multiple languages. In Tibet Autonomous Region, there are , religious venues which house more than , Buddhist monks and nuns. Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region has , religious venues including mosques, churches, temples and Taoist abbeys there is one mosque for  Muslims on average in the region the number of clerical personnel is , students have access to undergraduate programs in Islamic institutes and more than . million copies of the Quran and Selections from Sahih of alBuhari have been distributed.  Liberty does not mean a free rein, and science, reason, law, order and international rules are all foundations of liberty. Liberty, says Montesquieu in The Spirit of the Laws, is a right of doing whatever the laws permit, and if a citizen could do what they forbid, he would be no longer possessed of liberty. Freedom has boundaries. Even the socalled free nations delimit a nogo zone for liberty and never allow anyone to challenge the bottom line of the legal system. The Chinese government has the power conferred by the law to take various measures to safeguard national unity, ethnic solidarity and social stability. It is also dutybound to protect the lawful rights and interests of the vast majority of the people by taking these measures. The exercise of its power and the fulfillment of its duties fall within Chinas domestic affairs and no interference from external forces will be tolerated.  The constitutions of more than  countries provide that the exercise of fundamental rights and freedoms should not jeopardize national security. The International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights stipulates that the freedom to manifest ones religion or beliefs, the right to freedom of expression, the right of peaceful assembly, and the right to a public trial among other rights may be subject to limitations that are necessary to protect public safety or order. The European Convention on Human Rights also has similar provisions. The United States, Britain, Canada and Australia among other countries have built strict legal systems to safeguard national security and stay tough on fighting crimes endangering national security. . Mike Pompeo The United States is a beacon of freedom for people all around the world, including people inside of China. False. Fact check The United States proclaims itself as a beacon of freedom, which is no more than an illusion that deceives both its people and the world. According to a survey conducted by the Associated PressNORC Center for Public Affairs Research,  percent of Americans say the country is headed in the wrong direction, an alltime high in APNORC surveys. According to a poll published by the Pew Research Center on July , only  percent of Americans say they are satisfied with the way things are going in the country, while  percent say they are dissatisfied, and most Americans are dissatisfied with how the government operates. According to a Gallup poll, American pride has reached the lowest point in two decades, with only  percent of Americans satisfied with the way things are going in their country. Extreme pride among whites has fallen below  percent for the first time and nonwhites  percent.  The United States is highly unpopular around the globe, as only one third of people across the world acknowledge the United States leading position. A survey by the European Council on Foreign Relations shows that people from multiple countries are losing their trust in the United States. Researchers conducted the survey among , people from nine European countries, and over two thirds of respondents from Germany, France, Spain and Denmark said that their views of the United States have worsened. The countrys reputation dropped particularly drastically in France and Germany, as  percent of French respondents and  percent of German respondents said the United States image has severely worsened due to COVID. The  Best Countries report also showed that the worlds trust in the United States has dropped by more than  percent since , the sharpest drop of any country assessed in the report.  An annual survey report published by Gallup on July  showed that US leadership remains unpopular worldwide. The free world proclaimed by the United States, in particular, disapproves US leadership. The approval of US leadership is at its lowest among the countrys traditional allies in Europe, where  percent of respondents disapprove of its performance, and only  percent approve of it. In the United Kingdom, the figure is  percent disapprove, with a similar outcome in France. In Germany, the US stature is even worse, as  percent disapprove the leadership coming from Washington. In Australia, whose government follows closely its US counterpart, there is deep skepticism about the United States as well, with  percent disapproving its performance.  Tara D. Sonenshine, former US undersecretary of state for public diplomacy and public affairs and currently a fellow in public diplomacy at the George Washington University School of Media and Public Affairs, recently said that the United States is losing its global leadership, with its international reputation hitting the bottom and its allies giving up on it. Over the past few years, many of the key policies put forward by the United States are broadly unpopular around the globe, especially the Americafirst principle which provoked discontent among many of its allies. According to a new Pew Research Center survey spanning  nations, just  percent of the respondents has confidence in Trump to do the right thing when it comes to international affairs.  US citizens personal dignity and privacy suffer systematic violation. The Dallas Morning News reported last December that Texas is home to eight secretive surveillance centers, supported jointly by federal, state and local law enforcement departments, which share information and monitor social media and other online forums for potential threats. A report of the US Government Accountability Office released in June  said that the FBIs Facial Analysis, Comparison, and Evaluation Services Unit may search at its will in the database of over  million face photos without any legal permission.  The United States lacks sufficient protection of ethnic minorities human rights and fundamental freedoms. Ethnic minorities in the country suffer bullying and exclusion, facing longterm, widespread and systematic discrimination in the political, economic, cultural and social areas. For American Indians alone, the US government, for a long time, implemented compulsory policies of ethnic extinction, isolation and assimilation against them. In nearly  years after the United States of America was founded, the country drove out and killed American Indians on a large scale during the Westward Movement. By the beginning of the th century, the number of American Indians within the border of the United States dropped sharply to , from five million in . Currently, American Indians only account for two percent of the countrys total population. Since the COVID outbreak, African Americans are over four times more likely to catch the disease than white Americans, with much higher mortality rates as well, highlighting racial inequality in the country. Fatal police shootings are not uncommon either, with the number of such cases reaching , in  alone. Among the , biasinduced hate crime cases reported by US law enforcement agencies in , . percent were motivated by a race, ethnicity or ancestry bias. Furthermore, of hate crimes motivated by race, ethnicity or ancestry, . percent were against African Americans. African Americans accounted for . percent of the , victims of racebased hate crimes. On May , , George Floyd, an African American man in the state of Minnesota, was killed by a white police officer, triggering largescale protests across the United States. The United Nations Human Rights Council held an urgent debate and adopted a resolution, strongly condemning the incident and calling for the United States to take concrete measures to protect the human rights and fundamental freedoms of African Americans.  The United States has the widest wealth gap among Western countries. In January , the Business Insider published a chart by Torsten Slok, Deutsche Banks chief international economist, which showed the share of US household wealth by income level. Notably, the top . percent of households hold about the same amount of wealth as the bottom  percent. From  to , the bottom  percent of families saw basically no net increase in their wealth. In light of COVID, employers in the United States have laid off tens of millions of employees since this February, dealing a particularly heavy blow to lowincome workers and dragging the employment rate  percent lower than the preCOVID level.  The United States suppresses the media and restricts freedom of the press. The Washington Post reported in April  that for the third time in three years, the United States standing in an annual index of press freedom declined. In ,  journalists in the country suffered attacks journalists were rejected from attending government open events for  times and nine journalists were arrested or faced criminal charges. Media organizations including The New York Times and The Hill in the United States and The Guardian in the United Kingdom frequently reported news of journalists being attacked or arrested while reporting the protests concerning George Floyd, with  journalists involved from May  to June  alone   journalists were shot by gun  physically assaulted by police  arrested or detained and one female photojournalist even permanently lost vision in her left eye after being shot by a rubber bullet. A report by The Guardian in December last year said the current US administration has dealt the most sustained assault on press freedom in US history.  Abusing the concept of national security, the US administration uses national resources to smear, attack, encircle and contain Chinese private companies including Huawei, ByteDance and Tencent, forbid US service providers from purchasing equipment made by Huawei and ZTE, and ban Chinese social media applications such as TikTok and WeChat. The acts violate market principles of fair and free competition. This is sheer daylight robbery. How can such a country serve as the beacon for the Chinese people?  On July , The Atlantic published an article titled Pompeos surreal speech on China by Thomas Wright, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution. He pointed out that Pompeo said the United States will organize the free world while alienating and undermining the free world. Pompeo extolled democracy while aiding and abetting its destruction at home in the United States. Pompeo praised the Chinese people while generalizing about the ill intent of Chinese students who want to come to America. Pompeos tirade will discredit the case for competition with China among US allies, in Asia and Europe, who are petrified of a fullblown Cold War between the United States and China, Wright said. . Mike Pompeo China seeks global hegemony. China threatens international agreements and treats international agreements as conduits for global dominance. False. Fact check The Constitution of the Communist Party of China and the Constitution of the Peoples Republic of China PRC have made it clear that China follows a path of peaceful development and opposes hegemony. No matter what stage of development it reaches, China will never seek hegemony or engage in expansion. Thats what China says, and also what it does. Since its founding  years ago, the PRC has never started any war or occupied an inch of the land of others. In contrast, the United States has never made such policy announcement. In a speech delivered by former US President Jimmy Carter in , he pointed out that the United States had only enjoyed  years of peace in its history of more than  years, making the country the most warlike nation in the history of the world.  China firmly upholds the international system with the United Nations at its core and an international order based on international law, including a series of international conventions signed within the UN framework. China actively advocates a new type of international relations featuring winwin cooperation, develops allround friendship and cooperation with other countries, and establishes a global network of partnerships. China is committed to building a community with a shared future for mankind. It advocates an international order that features fairness and justice and calls for global cooperation through extensive consultation, joint contribution and shared benefits and for upholding justice while pursuing shared interests. It has all along worked to safeguard the norms governing international relations, the multilateral system and stability of the international order. According to UN SecretaryGeneral Antonio Guterres, China has become an important pillar of the multilateral system, with the aim to establish a community with a shared future for mankind through practicing multilateralism.  As the first founding member to sign the UN Charter, China firmly upholds its purposes and principles and honors the spirit of contract and the international rule of law. China has all along kept its promises, followed rules and fulfilled agreements. China opposes acts that undermine the authority and sanctity of international law, including unauthorized use of force and withdrawal from treaties and organizations. China is also the secondlargest contributor to the UN regular budget and peacekeeping operations, actively fulfilling its financial obligations to the UN as a developing country.  China has signed or joined  multilateral arms control, disarmament and nonproliferation treaties, including the Treaty on the NonProliferation of Nuclear Weapons. It also actively participates in the international arms control, disarmament and nonproliferation process, opposes arms race, and safeguards global strategic balance and stability. China has also voluntarily downsized its military personnel by over  million since reform and opening up.  China has fully fulfilled its obligations under the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change and the Paris Agreement, and made efforts to build a global climate governance system that is fair, equitable, and mutually beneficial. Compared with , Chinas carbon dioxide emissions dropped by . percent in , achieving emission reduction target set for  two years ahead of schedule, and nonfossil energy accounted for . percent of Chinas total energy consumption. China leads the world in the investment, installed capacity, power generation and consumption of renewable energy, and has more than half of the worlds new energy vehicles. Since , China has contributed to a quarter of the worlds newly increased afforestation areas.  The United States always seeks selfish gains under the pretext of upholding international law. Its alltime principle is to apply international law in a selective way. The United States has withdrawn from more than  international treaties and organizations, severely undermining international fairness and justice, as well as peace, stability and development in the world. In , the United States, to maintain its maritime hegemony, refused to sign the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea, to which it is still not a party. In , the United States refused to recognize the compulsory jurisdiction of the UN International Court of Justice ICJ after Nicaragua complained that US armed intervention violated its sovereignty. In , the United States announced its withdrawal from the UN Industrial Development Organization and refused to pay arrears by claiming domestic budgetary constraints. In , the United States refused to sign the Kyoto Protocol, saying that it was not in its national interest to meet relevant environmental obligations. It is still not a party to the protocol. In , the United States announced its withdrawal from the UN World Conference against Racism, Racial Discrimination, Xenophobia and Related Intolerance after failing to prevent discussion of Israeli military action against Palestinians. In , the United States formally withdrew from the AntiBallistic Missile Treaty signed by the United States and the Soviet Union in , aiming to develop its antiballistic missile systems. In , the United States announced its withdrawal from the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court, citing unfavorable terms for American soldiers, diplomats and politicians. In , the United States announced its withdrawal from the UN Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization UNESCO due to concerns with mounting arrears at UNESCO, the need for fundamental reform in the organization, and continuing antiIsrael bias at UNESCO. In , the United States announced its formal withdrawal from the TransPacific Partnership because it believed that the multilateral trade agreements were not in its best interests and hindered its America First policy. In , the US government announced its withdrawal from the Paris Agreement, believing that it hindered the US economic development and calling global climate change a created concept. In , the United States announced that it has decided to end participation in the UN process to develop a Global Compact on Migration, saying that our decisions on immigration policies must always be made by Americans and Americans alone. In , despite the fact that the International Atomic Energy Agency IAEA confirmed Irans fulfillment of its Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action JCPOA commitment and that the United States had no clear evidence to show Irans breach of the deal, the United States announced its withdrawal from the JCPOA, a deal that has been endorsed by the UN Security Council, imposed unilateral sanctions against Iran, and prevented other countries from implementing the deal through longarm jurisdiction. In , the United States announced its withdrawal from the UN Human Rights Council, claiming it failed to effectively protect human rights. In , the United States announced its withdrawal from the Optional Protocol to the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations concerning the Compulsory Settlement of Disputes relating to the jurisdiction of the ICJ in response to Palestines complaint to the ICJ over the US governments relocation of its Israeli embassy to Jerusalem. In , the United States announced its withdrawal from the IntermediateRange Nuclear Forces Treaty to develop advanced capabilities without restraint. In , the United States announced steps to exit the Open Skies Treaty despite the opposition from its allies, saying the steps would start on May  and would be finished six months later. In , US national security agencies discussed the possibility of resuming nuclear tests, which has met with wide criticism from the international community, causing concerns that the possible resumption would violate t