China ready to share data with Mekong nations
2020/8/24 11:27
Here are some of the most striking images taken from around the world over the past week. A Palestine boy practices parkour at sunset in Khan Yunis at Gaza Strip, Aug , .  An Iranian boy wearing a face mask chases pigeons on a street in Rasht, Iran, on Aug , .  Relatives mourn on the funeral of three firefighters who were killed during the explosions in Beirut, Lebanon, on Aug , . Two huge explosions rocked Port of Beirut on Aug , shaking buildings all over Lebanons capital, while killing at least  people and wounding ,.  Photo taken near Half Moon Bay south of San Francisco, California, shows the sky illuminated by the blaze of wildfires in California, on Aug , . Fueled by record heat waves, wildfires raging in California, Oregon and Colorado have scorched , acres . square kilometers recently.  A costumed character is seen on Times Square in New York, Aug , . The total number of COVID cases in the United States surpassed . million on Wednesday.  Photo taken in Arlington, Virginia, on Aug , , shows screens displaying images of Democratic presidential candidate Joe Biden speaking in a video feed of the  Democratic National Convention. Joe Biden on Thursday formally accepted the Democratic presidential nomination, laying out his vision for building the nation back better in a speech that capped off the fourday virtual Democratic National Convention.  Photo taken with a drone shows Trajineras parked in Xochimilco, a tourist site which will reopen to public after months of closure, in Mexico City, Mexico, Aug , .  Kindergarten teachers perform during an online class in Kampala, Aug , . As a measure to contain the spread of COVID, schools have started to offer online classes in Uganda.  Residents queue to receive supply in the suburban district of Brasilia, capital of Brazil, Aug , . Brazilian doctor Mariana Correa donated basic sanitation supplies and food to impoverished people in Brazil with the tuition she collected from the online course platform she set up amid COVID outbreak.  People wearing protective face masks walks through Trafalgar Square, amid the coronavirus disease COVID outbreak, in London, Britain, Aug , .  The sunset as seen over Rue de la Loi in Brussels, Belgium, on Aug , .  A worker fumigates a public housing estate to kill the Aedes mosquitoes as part of the prevention against dengue infections in Singapore, Aug , .  People living near Mount Merapi participate in a national flag raising ceremony to celebrate the th anniversary of Indonesias Independence Day in Klaten, Central Java, Indonesia, Aug , .  A passerby using a smartphone takes a photo of an illuminated manhole cover with designs of popular animation character Gundam, on the street in Tokorozawa, near Tokyo, Aug , .  South Korean police stand guard near the Sarang Jeil Church, which has become a new cluster of coronavirus disease infections, in Seoul, Aug , .  Photo taken on Aug ,  shows Mount Sinabung spewing volcanic materials in Karo of North Sumatra, Indonesia. 