Great Wall winds through autumn mists in Hebei
2020/8/24 0:00
The World Health Organization has raised concerns that the extraordinary and prolonged school closures across Africa aimed at keeping students safe from the coronavirus are harming them in many ways. The world health body, which released the statement on Thursday, urged African governments to promote the safe reopening of schools while taking measures to limit the spread of the virus. According to a survey conducted by the WHO and UNICEF, the impact of extended education disruption is significant and includes poor nutrition, stress, increased exposure to violence and exploitation, childhood pregnancies, and overall challenges in mental development of children due to reduced interaction. Even though African governments have been gradually easing restrictions and reopening their economies, most of them have not found the right formula to reopen schools, with some countries closing the schools after initial reopening and some postponing learning to later dates. In Kenya, where schools have been closed until next year, George Magoha, the education cabinet secretary, cast doubts about school reopening. Magoha said on Wednesday that more than , schools will remain closed across the country until adequate preparations have been put in place to ensure full compliance with the guidelines on COVID and the president feels it is safe to take the risk. Revised calendar In South Africa, the department of basic education released a revised calendar for the  school year, which will see schools reopening on Monday. In a statement released on Aug , the department said it had reached the decision after consultations with stakeholders. This came after President Cyril Ramaphosa ordered the closure of schools on July  after an initial reopening led to a rise in infections among students and teachers. According to the WHO survey on subSaharan African countries, schools are fully open in only six countries, closed in  countries and partially open in  others. Around  countries are planning to resume classroom learning in September, which is the start of the academic year in some countries. Matshidiso Moeti, WHO regional director for Africa, said that Africa should not be blindsided by its efforts to contain COVID and end up with a lost generation. Just as countries are opening businesses safely, we can reopen schools. This decision must be guided by a thorough risk analysis to ensure the safety of children, teachers and parents and with key measures like physical distancing put in place, Moeti said. She added that schools have paved the way to success for many Africans and provided a safe haven for many children in challenging circumstances to develop and thrive. Longterm impact The survey also revealed that the longterm social and economic impact of extended school shutdown is also concerning. According to a World Bank modeling, school closures in subSaharan Africa could result in lifetime earning losses of , per child. This may also be worsened by reduced earning of the parents who are forced to stay at home to take care of the children, especially in households that cannot afford child care services. To assist African governments in formulating reopening strategies, the WHO, UNICEF and the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies have issued guidance on COVID prevention and control in schools. The guidance includes recommendations for physical distancing measures such as staggering the beginning and end of the school day, canceling school events that create crowding, spacing desks when possible, providing handwashing facilities, wearing masks, discouraging unnecessary touching and ensuring that sick students and teachers stay at home. otiatochinadaily.com.cn ? Kindergarten teachers perform during an online class in Kampala, Uganda, on Saturday. Many schools have started to offer such classes in Uganda to contain the spread of COVID. NICHOLAS KAJOBAXINHUA ? ?