Keep students safe from COVID, Africa told
2020/8/22 9:42
 The coronavirus recession struck swiftly and violently. Now, with the US economy still in the grip of the outbreak five months later, the recovery looks fitful and unevenand painfully slow. The latest evidence came on Thursday, when the government reported that the number of workers applying for unemployment benefits climbed back above  million last week after two weeks of declines. The figures suggest that employers are still slashing jobs even as some businesses reopen and some sectors like housing and manufacturing have rebounded. Getting the virus in check dictates when therell be relief from this economic nightmare, and it doesnt look like it will be soon, said Ann Elizabeth Konkel, an economist at Indeed, a job listings website. Economists surveyed by Dow Jones had expected , new claims to be filed. The number of individuals claiming benefits remains extraordinarily highmore than twice the peak of the Great Recessionunderscoring that the labor market is a long way from being healthy, said Nancy Vanden Houten, lead economist at Oxford Economics, in a research note. Until the virus can be brought under control, economists agree, any recovery is destined to remain weak. The scourge in the United States has killed more than , people and caused more than . million infections, with deaths rising by more than , a day on average. Worldwide, the death toll stands at about ,, with over  million cases. The economy shut down in March as governors ordered stores, restaurants, bars, gyms, theaters and many schools to close as part of the effort to limit the spread of the virus. Twentytwo million jobs were lost to the outbreak in March and April. In the past three months, only . million have been regained, and unemployment remains high at . percent. As shutdowns rippled through the workforce, initial jobless claims spiked by  million to a thenrecord . million in the week ending on March , and then doubled to a record . million in the week ending on March . Before the shutdowns, the unemployment was rate was . percentnear a record low. Consumer spending represents about  percent of the US economy. Mounting fears in Europe In Europe, meanwhile, fears mounted over rising infections, many of them attributed to vacationers and young people lowering their guard. Italy added nearly  cases to its count, with Sardinia becoming a hot spot because of people partying at nightclubs and other venues without masks. Greece reported  new infections, matching a record high set two days earlier. Amid a surge in Spain, emergency coordinator Fernando Simon said younger people should take into account the risk of infecting older relatives. Nobody should be fooled. Things are not going well, he said. In France, President Emmanuel Macron insisted the country will send millions of students back to school from Sept , despite the biggest weekly spike in cases since the height of the outbreak in March and Aprilover ,. The return to school will happen in the coming days, Macron said. We will not bring our countries to a halt, but we will have to learn to live with the virus. Scott Reeves in New York, agencies and Xinhua contributed to this story. ?