HK prepares for citywide virus testing
2020/8/22 7:00
Residents don face masks in Hung Hom, Hong Kong, Aug , .  Assistance from central government boosts capacity for free health checks Hong Kongs free coronavirus testing will begin on Sept , as the government races to locate asymptomatic patients to tame the latest outbreak. Residents who want a coronavirus test can register online and then visit temporary stations to have their nasal and throat swabs collected by health workers. Unveiling the details on Friday, Chief Executive Carrie Lam Cheng Yuetngor said the citywide testing would have been impossible without the central governments assistance, which significantly boosted the citys testing capacity. The central government is also helping build a community treatment facility with , beds at Asia WorldExpo, as well as a twofloor temporary hospital with  beds near the Expo. Also on Friday, a team of  medical professionals, selected from public hospitals in Guangdong province, arrived in Hong Kong to assist in the citys massive coronavirus testing, joining  other mainland health workers who had arrived in early August. Highranking officials from the special administrative region welcomed the team, expressing thanks to the central governments prompt support. Lam appealed to residents to register for testing, which is expected to be completed within two weeks. David Hui Shucheong, an infectious disease expert at the Chinese University of Hong Kong, said on a radio program that he hopes at least five million people can sign up for the tests, so that silent carriers can be traced and local transmission chains cut off. Mandy Kwok, who works in the citys nonprofit sector, said the massive testing is a superior measure to fight the disease and she will take the test and encourage her family and friends to do so. Joe Hung, a businessman in his s, said a quick return to normal life requires peoples cooperation with the governments antiepidemic strategies. Lams news briefing came shortly before Hong Kong reported  new COVID cases on Fridayincluding  locally transmitted casesone of the lowest daily counts during the citys worst wave of infections. The citys overall tally stands at ,. Lam said the numbers in the following week will be a key indicator whether the current local outbreak is steadily subsiding, and whether social distancing rules can be gradually lifted. Hong Kong will introduce a health code system for people who plan to travel to the Chinese mainland once the local outbreak is brought under control, said Lam. On the mainland, a health code on cellphones indicates whether the holder is free from coronavirus, and is widely used before people enter public venues. But Hong Kongs health code system, for travel purposes only, will include nothing except the holders virus test result, according to the government. Lam also dismissed the idea of presenting a health code before stepping into restaurants, saying it is not feasible considering Hong Kongs situation. Ida Xue and Xie Shudan contributed to this story. ?