Its time for Japan to atone for its WWII atrocities
2020/8/21 9:54
? Japans Prime Minister Shinzo Abe offers a silent prayer for the victims of the  atomic bombing, at Peace Memorial Park in Hiroshima, western Japan, August , , on the th anniversary of the atomic bombing of the city. Kyodovia REUTERS The generation of our fathers and grandfathers endured two devastating world wars, and much else besides. Military conquerors from earlier periods were often lauded over conduct that, by todays standards of behavior, would be considered despicable. Japan has just marked the th anniversary of the two terrible atomic bombings of its cities that forced it to surrender, which helped quickly bring World War II to an end by the cessation of all hostilities in the Far East in , apart from the declaration of war against Japanese aggressors by the Soviet Union. Unfortunately, the message that the annual remembrance ceremony conveys implies that Japan was the victim, rather than the aggressor. The Chinese mainland generally, and Hong Kong, too, had ample painful experience of being at the receiving end of Japanese military aggression, as had many other unfortunate parts of East Asia and the Pacific. Japan again attacked China by invading Manchuria back in . This was described by the Lytton Commission as ethically illegitimate. The commission was established by the League of Nations, the first worldwide intergovernmental organization whose mission was to maintain world peace, to determine what caused Japans invasion of Manchuria. The wider SinoJapanese War, which followed from , continued the military expansion of the thengrowing Empire of Japan. People wearing protective face masks pray for atomic bomb victims in front of the cenotaph for the victims of the US  atomic bombing, at Peace Memorial Park in Hiroshima, western Japan, August , , on the th anniversary of the atomic bombing of the city. Kyodovia REUTERS The infamous Rape of Nanking then Chinas capital and todays Nanjing in late  saw the mass murder by Japanese soldiers of hundreds of thousands of prisoners of war, and of civilians, as well as mass raping and pillaging. Japans conduct of the war has been described as Asias Holocaust. Millions of Asian people, including civilians and captured Chinese soldiers, died. Some estimates put the total death toll at  million or more. In Hong Kong, invaded by Japan in , at about the same time as Pearl Harbor was attacked, the Japanese occupationwhich lasted for three years and eight monthsincluded the deaths of more than , Hong Kong people by murder, torture, mutilation and rape. In other parts of China, Japanese military units weaponized deadly infectious diseases, including exposing soldiers and civilians to bubonic plague, botulism, anthrax, smallpox and cholera, causing huge casualties to the Chinese people for years to come. There was even a secret plan to attack California by germ warfare, which had already been launched around the fields and cities of China. Inhuman and illicit experiments were conducted on human beings, who were vivisected as part of their chemical and biological weapons development program. Japan did not hesitate to use such banned germ warfare techniques. The enforced slave labor imposed by Japan on prisoners of war and civilian victims in the territories it conquered remains a byword for cruelty. Many thousands were maltreated, starved or murdered as a result, some while building a railway track to Burma, which is todays Myanmar. Both Nazi Germany and Japan had their own secret research units, tasked with developing nuclear weapons. Had either country not been forced into surrender in time, before these were fully developed, it seems very likely that both countries would have attacked allied countries with them. It just reinforces the justification in forcing Japan to surrender with the two atomic bombs because the alternative could have led to even more casualties and prolonged peoples suffering in land and sea battles for Japans home islands. So instead of just preaching against the use of atomic weapons, clearly justified in the context of the situation at the time, Japanese leaders should be laying wreaths of regret at the many places throughout Asia such as Nanjing that it conquered and for the people whom Japanese soldiers had killed or abused during World War II, which it played a pivotal role in triggering. The author is a commentator on Hong Kong social issues.?The views do not necessarily reflect those of China Daily.