Zhou dispute leaves bitter taste
2021/9/3 7:57
Photo taken on Aug ,  shows the site of an airstrike conducted by the US against a planner for the Islamic State ISIS in Nangarhar province, Afghanistan.  Americas forever war may have ended after US troops hastily left wartorn Afghanistan, but political infighting in Washington over the humiliating debacle appeared to have just warmed up. On Capitol Hill in Washington, lawmakers from both sides of the aisle are demanding answers from the White House over the bungled withdrawal that most Americans considered a failure. The chaotic exit has also caused new rifts between the United States and its allies, giving another hard hit on the countrys already crumbling credibility. Without doubt, how the US military exit was handled needs accountability. Washington clearly misjudged the situation in Afghanistan and left many parties, including itself, underprepared, and this illprepared decision has led to a surge of disorder and deadly violence. Terrorist attacks last week killed more than a dozen US service members and scores of Afghan civilians during evacuation efforts from the Kabul airport. Afghan civilians were allegedly shot and killed by US soldiers amid chaos immediately after the Kabul airport attacks. In addition, a US drone strike on a vehicle purportedly carrying a suspected suicide bomber reportedly killed ten members of one family, including seven children, in a Kabul neighborhood on Sunday. It remains to be seen how the White House is going to respond. Government spokespersons have recently repeated a claim that the US forces have worked harder to avoid civilian casualties than any other country in the world, though its military campaigns, including unchecked airstrikes, have taken a heavy toll on civilians. Some Republicans have even called for the impeachment or resignation of US President Joe Biden over the disastrous endgame in Afghanistan. However, no matter how hard they are pushing, they are not likely to have their way. Democrats, who still control the House of Representatives, are surely going to reject any articles of impeachment put forward by Republicans. But the Biden administration will still be subject to congressional oversight, as members of his own party were also critical of the operations during the final days of the US military presence in Afghanistan. The House Foreign Affairs Committee, led by Democrats, is scheduling hearings later this month. That being said, Democrats have been widely expected to be less hostile and confrontational than their Republican colleagues. Also, they have sought to distract firepower from Biden by pointing fingers at the  agreement that the Donald Trump administration struck with the Taliban that all US troops will leave Afghanistan by May  this year. Biden ordered a review of the plan when taking office in January before deciding to move the deadline to Aug , prior to the th anniversary of the Sept  terrorist attacks that took almost , lives in the United States. Domestic critics and allies alike had previously urged the White House to allow some US troops to stay beyond the deadline if more people need to be evacuated. Republicans, for their part, are trying to seize upon the foreign policy crisis to dent the Biden White House, whose poll numbers have recently slipped to the lowest point of his eightmonth presidency, and make it an advantageous topic in future elections, as many of the party are still holding a grudge against the loss last year. There have been comparisons between the Kabul debacle and the  attack on the US Consulate in Benghazi, Libya, where members of an Islamic militant group killed the US ambassador and three other Americans. Following the Benghazi incident, Republicans launched wideranging investigations into the attack and thenSecretary of State Hillary Clinton, and used it as political ammunition to deal a blow at the Democrat, when she ran for the White House years later. The differences in how the two sides will conduct the oversight over the Afghanistan fallout, including the way in which the incidents will be interpreted, along with their mismatched political calculations and intentions, have clearly set the stage for rancorous infighting in Washington and beyond. In light of that, there are growing concerns that oversight and accountability from Congress would quickly devolve into shouting matches. Loyal members of the rival parties will stick to their own talking points and hype rhetoric rather than solving problems, as seen countless times in Washington over the years. Entrenched partisanship has long plagued the United States, and has even fueled the politicization of the COVID pandemic. Polarized political debates on such scientific issues as mask wearing and vaccination have been hampering the countrys efforts to suppress the disease, which has killed , of its citizens, along with nearly  million infections, both the highest in the world. It would be a pity if Americas infighting over the military departure crowds out any meaningful conversation and debates, and deviates focus from muchneeded reflection and correction for Washington over the pullout fiasco, as well as two decades of war in the Asian country. After all, if the massive deaths of Americans in the pandemic have failed to let Washington politicians put public interests ahead of partisan interests, how is it possible that they can make the right call over this Afghanistan departure?