Dancing across the canvas
2020/8/20 10:11
TOKYO  Japan on Wednesday confirmed , more cases of COVID, with the western prefecture of Osaka reporting more infections than Tokyo amid warnings of a second wave of the virus outbreak. ? Commuters wearing protective masks head to work amid the coronavirus disease COVID outbreak in Osaka, Japan in this photo taken by Kyodo on May , .  Osaka confirmed  new daily COVID cases, the most in Japan, while Tokyo confirmed  additional cases. As Osakas daily tally topped Tokyos for the first time in three months, Osaka Governor Hirofumi Yoshimura said, We call on our people to avoid highrisk areas and highrisk activities to contain the spread. If you have any symptoms, please take a virus test immediately. Relatively high daily infection rates were also confirmed in other prefectures in Japan, possibly as a result of increased travel during the Bon holiday, which usually sees people return to their hometowns in droves to visit relatives. Fukuoka Prefecture confirmed  new cases, while Tokyos neighboring prefecture of Kanagawa saw  new infections. In Japans southernmost prefecture of Okinawa, a holiday hotspot for travelers, infections increased by , while Saitama Prefecture, also close to Tokyo, reported  new cases, according to the latest official figures from health officials and prefectural authorities. As the virus resurgence in Japan shows no real signs of abating, with the nationwide tally almost reaching ,, with more than , deaths, a wellknown infectious disease expert in Japan has warned that the nation is in the middle of a second wave of the coronavirus outbreak, Japans public broadcaster NHK reported. Kazuhiro Tateda of the Japanese Association for Infectious Diseases said the chart of new daily infections shows Japan is in the midst of a second wave of infections. We are now in the midst of a second wave. People may think coronavirus infections have peaked out, both in Tokyo and nationwide. But we need to closely monitor the situation for whether a resurgence is underway, Tateda was also quoted as saying the nations current COVID predicament may be worse compared to a few months ago. Economic Revitalization Minister Yasutoshi Nishimura said the government recognizes the severity of the situation and the urgent need to take action, but stopped short of definitely saying Japan is being hit by a second wave, owing to a definition being unclear. With regards to daily new cases, the current figures are higher than those during the state of emergency. We consider the current wave to be a big one, Nishimura said. Tokyos  new daily COVID infections reported Wednesday, meanwhile, follow  cases reported a day earlier,  on Monday and a spike of  cases confirmed on Sunday. The latest figure marks the first time since Monday that new infections have dropped below , with the figure also falling below the sevenday average of . cases, the metropolitan government said. The number of patients hospitalized and designated as being in a serious condition, however, rose to  from  the previous day, the Tokyo metropolitan government said. This marks the second time the number of serious COVID patients in the capital of  million has topped the mark since May amid concerns over the virus rampant contagiousness in urban areas. Osaka reported the previous day the number of patients listed as being in a serious condition more than doubled Tokyos figure at  patients. Tokyos cumulative total of infections has now surpassed ,, the highest among Japans  prefectures, with the Tokyo metropolitan government maintaining its highest alert level on its fourtier scale meaning infections are spreading. The Tokyo metropolitan government has reiterated calls for Tokyo residents to refrain from traveling outside the prefecture during the holiday season, as well as refrain from dining out in groups, including small gatherings held in close proximity with others. Establishments serving alcohol such as restaurants, bars and karaoke parlors have been requested to shorten their opening hours until the end of August and shut their doors at  p.m. in a bid to curb the further spread of the virus. The metropolitan government has described the situation in the capital as extremely severe, with Tokyo Governor Yuriko Koike saying that a Tokyospecific state of emergency could be declared if the virus resurgence continues to worsen.