ChinaASEAN trade maintains robust growth amid COVID pandemic
2020/8/20 7:24
People enjoy themselves on Saturday at the Wuhan Maya Beach Water Park, part of the Happy Valley amusement park in Wuhan, Hubei province. The city recently issued alerts for high temperatures, prompting residents to flock to waterside facilities to keep cool.?ZHANG CHANGCHINA NEWS SERVICE With pandemic control measures in place, Wuhan, the Chinese city hit hardest by COVID, is hosting events involving large gatherings of people to celebrate life returning to normal. On July , the Wuhan Maya Beach Water Park, part of the Happy Valley amusement park in the Hubei provincial capital, kicked off its annual day openair electronic music festival to show visitors a good time amid the summer heat, said Tang Haifeng, Happy Valleys deputy general manager. Around , people have visited the amusement park every day during the summer vacation, he said, with around , of them going to the water park. The park decided to host the music festival because the city has been a lowrisk area for COVID for some time and has witnessed a strong recovery from the pandemic, Tang said. Pictures of partygoers in swimsuits at the park waving to the beat of music have raised eyebrows on international social media platforms, with the hashtag Wuhan among the top  trending topics on Twitter on Wednesday. Among the comments posted was one called for people to quit with the blaming of Wuhan for COVID. Another suggested critics take responsibility for our own failure. Tang said the photos were taken on Saturday, when about , people visited the water park. We are surprised that people are so interested in Wuhan having a music festival. Wuhan is a very safe place, thanks to the concerted efforts of its people and medical workers from across the country, he said. Almost all people in the city have been tested for the novel coronavirus, and we have not seen new cases for a long time. We are getting back to normal life, and the city is becoming better and better. The park has taken strict pandemic control measures, such as limiting the number of people to  percent of maximum capacity, thorough sterilization and sanitation of public areas and checking the temperatures and apps that indicate the health codes, or condition, of all visitors, he said. Water samples from the park have been tested for coronavirus, with all results coming back negative, Tang said. Wang Yongli, who lives in Wuhan, said her family started to go out only in late May, more than a month after the city lifted its lockdown. The family felt safe carrying their yearold son out of the house after the city conducted nucleic acid testing of all residents in June. They took him to the water park as temperatures rose in July, she said. Although life has returned to normal in the city, people in Wuhan are very mindful of the pandemic, and many people still wear masks in public and wash their hands frequently, she said. But she added, It is unreasonable to blame people for not wearing masks at the pool. More than  car brands and  models were featured at the citys fiveday Central China International Auto Show that started on Thursday, marking the first offline largescale exhibition in Wuhan since the city lifted its day lockdown on April  as the COVID outbreak waned, said Zhang Jun, secretarygeneral of the events organizing committee. The number of auto show visitors increased by  percent from last year and the total sales volume reached . billion yuan  million, he said. All visitors to the auto show must show their health codes, wear masks and have their temperatures checked, and people with coughs and temperatures higher than . C were not admitted, he added. Hubei lowered its emergency level for the pandemic from the secondhighest level to the thirdhighest on June , and Wuhan has not reported any new confirmed cases since midMay. On Aug , the province launched a campaign to revive its tourism sector, with nearly  Alevel tourist attractions offering free admission to domestic tourists as a token of gratitude for the nations assistance to the province during the COVID outbreak. Almost . million people visited the attractions during the first week of the campaign, with almost , people visiting as part of group tours arranged by travel agencies,  percent more than the total number of visitors from April to July, the Hubei Culture and Tourism Department said. Liu Kun in Wuhan contributed to this story.