Steph unearths a new Weibo baller
2021/9/2 9:58
Hypocrisy becomes abiding memory of double standards in Afghanistan Paratroopers assigned to the nd Airborne Division prepare to board a US Air Force C to leave Hamid Karzai International Airport in Kabul, Afghanistan August ,  in a photograph taken using night vision optics on August , .  The United States rash end to its longest war this week cant mask the countrys failures in counterterrorism in Afghanistan and the consequences that come from imposing its will on others, analysts said. The final withdrawal of the US military from Afghanistan closes another traumatic chapter in the history of that country and constitutes an opportunity for a new beginning in the quest for stability, peace and development of the Afghan nation, said Salman Bashir, a former foreign secretary of Pakistan and former ambassador to China. Afghanistan should never again become an arena for geopolitical games. Twenty years ago, the US invaded Afghanistan in the name of fighting terrorism. With a traumatic evacuation of mostly foreign citizens from Kabul airport having wrapped up on Tuesday, the Taliban are once again acknowledged as the governing force of Afghanistan. It is ironic that the US, after spending trillions of dollars, killing about , civilians and leaving millions homeless, has allowed the oncetoppled Taliban to return to power, said Mustafa Hyder Sayed, executive director of the PakistanChina Institute. Sayed also noted the US lost more than , soldiers in the twodecade conflict. Afghanistan is a good example of the double standards that the US exercises and the doom that comes from its hypocritical imposition of its own will and values upon others by force. US foreign policy is not based on principles or ethics, but on political interests that often override the interests of ordinary people and cost lives, he said. No more foreign rule When it was in the US interest, the White House and the Pentagon turned the Afghan Taliban into an enemy, even though it had once made them a partner, he said. The Mujahedeenfrom which the Taliban emerged in the swas known to have grown with US support to counter Soviet forces in Afghanistan in the s. But the Taliban, as the militants successors, were uprooted by the USled invasion in late . Sayed said the US should stop its regimechange endeavors. Amina Khan, director of the Centre for Afghanistan, Middle East and Africa at the Institute of Strategic Studies in Islamabad, said that after two decades of bloodshed and instability, one thing is clear Afghans never accept foreign rule. According to Imtiaz Gul, executive director of the Center for Research and Security Studies in Pakistan, the Afghan Taliban had been waiting for this moment for years and had been urging the US to fulfill its commitment on troop withdrawal. Wang Peng, a researcher at the Center for American Studies with Zhejiang International Studies University, said the two decades of war waged by the US against all Islamic nations have come to an end. Wang groups with Afghanistan the US roles in the second Iraq War that began in  and the socialpolitical color revolutions and regime changes associated with the Arab Spring. Many in the United States expect that their officials will learn from these hard lessons, Wang said. In the future, when Washingtons decisionmakers look to wage a new war, or replace one regime with another, they better think twice before they act, the academic said. While the US war in Afghanistan may be over, that doesnt mean the end of the countrys accountability for the Afghan people. The deadly suicide bombing at the Kabul airport on Aug  portends US failure in eliminating terrorists in Afghanistan, its major goal from , and further troubles for Afghans. The US can contribute to the development of Afghanistan, as the end of war is a historic opportunity, Khan said. At the same time the real test for Afghanistan has begun. The country has tremendous economic potential, which can be realized with the cooperation and support of its neighbors and the international community, the academic said.