Due to unfortunate circumstances, I am awake
2020/8/19 16:23
Editors Note Since the outbreak of COVID, governments across the world have taken strict measures to prevent the spread of the virus. Everyones life has changed dramatically due to the pandemic, and we still dont know when we will finally defeat the invisible enemy. However, life moves on. In our series My?story?of?fighting?COVID, we will share stories from our readers on how they are fighting against?COVID in their daily life. We hope these stories will inspire you. Paresh NathChina Daily I lived in peace like many others just before the global pandemic of COVID. Yesterday is but todays memory, and tomorrow is todays dream. I was not used hearing to the word outbreak even once in a year. But due to unforeseen circumstances, the COVID pandemic, also known as the coronavirus pandemic, emerged as a global threat earlier this year. The COVID pandemic poses extraordinary challenges to the world. Currently affecting more than  countries and territories, the virus has upended the lives of children and their families everywhere, placing a huge strain on often already overburdened health and education systems. Five weeks after confirming its first COVID case on June , , Myanmar reported  confirmed cases, but  recoveries and six deaths. The countrys largest city, Yangon, became the outbreaks epicenter, though cases have been detected in other states and regions. Landmarks and buildings across Yangon were lit up in support of?healthcare?workers. On the governments side, State Counsellor Daw Aung San Suu Kyi has assumed a central and visible role in the governments response, heading two newly established committees,?using social media, and hosting televised virtual meetings to engage with health workers, officials, volunteers, businesses and union representatives. It is very important not to listen to rumors and to regularly check the news and follow guidelines by the Ministry of Health and Sports. At that time, there was a critical shortage of surgical masks and N masks and must be reserved for health care providers, while cloth masks were easy to find and could be washed and reused. I was surfing the internet for the best way to sew a face mask with fabric. Then I made my first one and tried to wear it for a day. So, I made another dozen cloth masks and found those who could not afford to buy them. I discovered that another yard?of inch wide fabric could make  masks daily. I presented them to a social welfare volunteer, who gave them to senior citizens. Then I organized my friends to make washable face masks as much as we could and distribute them to remote areas where the general public lived. According to guidelines from the authorities, I did not have any guests over at that time nor any idea of visiting places. When returning home from outside, I washed my hands with soap for at least  seconds. If water and soap werent easily available, I would use hand sanitizers with  percent ethanol content. My friends from an industrial chemistry department were making hand sanitizers and selling it without generating a profit. At least  out of the  factories in Myanmar have shut down, leaving more than , potentially unemployed as a result of COVID.?Due to disruptions in the raw material supply chain, some factories have permanently ceased operations, while some have stopped operating temporarily and others have reduced the number of workers at their facilities. However, I realized it was a hard situation for everyone. I organized my friends within the food industry to provide for some basic household needs. One of the key things during a pandemic is taking care of personal hygiene by showering and washing your hands. Other important things include eating nutritious food and getting enough sleep and exercise. I tried to do some suitable, nonintensive physical exercises at home to stay in shape, including joining in on home fitness challenges on TV. I ate right and added more spices such as ginger, garlic and pepper, which are natural immune boosters. Its been important to practice empathy during this time, not only for others but for myself as well.?In addition to boosting social connectedness and increasing helping behaviors, empathizing with others also improves your ability to regulate your emotions during times of stress. Feeling empathy allows you to better manage the anxiety you are experiencing without feeling overwhelmed. We use the Zoom application, as it provides video call and online chat services through a cloudbased peertopeer software platform and is used for teleconferencing, telecommuting, distance education and social relations. As I am a new MBA student, I have potential networking opportunities with my peers and alumni. By using the internet, I can communicate with friends, family, relatives and other close people through the phone or social media. Although far apart, we can remain close to each others hearts with a sharing and caring spirit. Friends are forever and we have turned challenges into benefits. One of the best things I can do to support others is to simply stay home. Staying out of the way helps prevent the spread of the virus, which helps ensure that healthcare professionals and resources are not overwhelmed. Working from home and staying at home is generally easy, but it does come with the challenges of psychological?stress. Some people have seen their incomes drop and the unemployment rate is also high. When I felt frustrated after enduring two months at home, I realized that boosting my motivation to study was the best way to counter the stress of isolation. I read Sapiens, a book by Yuval Noah Harari that briefly recounts all of human history. I bought this book in  and have not even finished all the chapters. I also generated a book a day challenge with Facebook friends on social media. Due to unfortunate circumstances, I am awake. I am aware that physical things can be unreliable, but only sympathy, empathy, social ties, sharing and caring can enhance motivation or hope during tough times. Lets join together to fight?against?the COVID?pandemic. I hope?in the near future well once again see more of those beautiful smiles. The author is a student at Yangon University of Economics in Myanmar. The article was provided by South and Southeast Asian University Network.?The opinions expressed here are those of the writer and do not necessarily represent the views of China Daily and China Daily website. ?