Chinas foreign trade can achieve highquality development
2020/8/19 11:06
Editors note This news column showcases stories from around the world that bring a touch of positivity to the fight against the deadly coronavirus. SWEIDA, SyriaCanceling a wedding was not an easy choice for Basel Abu Assi and his wife Hadil alShaar, with all the family expectations for the wedding party. But the couple, from the southern Syrian province of Sweida, feared that their wedding could lead to the spread of coronavirus. So they thought about a way to turn their happy occasion into an initiative that could benefit people amid the pandemic. They decided to get married without a party, with the expenses that would have gone on the event being channeled into donations to charities that would hand out masks to the poor. We had been planning to have a huge wedding party before the outbreak of the coronavirus in Syria, but since the pandemic has spread in Syria, we decided to cancel the wedding party, the yearold groom said. It would have turned into a catastrophe if any infection was found the among the guests. Abu Assi worked in a bank in Iraq earlier this year. I saw what the coronavirus did to the people there, he said. One of his colleagues had held a wedding party there, only for dozens of guests to come down with infections, he said. We didnt want to be the reason for anyone to get sick, he said, adding that he hopes more couples will follow their lead. His wife alShaar said I was so frightened by how fast the virus was spreading among people. I feel that we made the right decision to cancel the wedding to protect ourselves and those we love. White dress dream Every girls dream is to wear the white wedding dress and to be happy with her groom and friends. But now, the priority is to avoid the infection. The couple decided to have a photo session on the scheduled date of the wedding party. The bride was able to wear that white dress. AlShaar said that people on social media have reacted positively to their idea. The happiness I saw in the faces of those in need was much bigger than those I would see in any wedding party, she said. The idea has also inspired another couple redirect funds intended for a wedding party to charity. A strong community can face anything. We just have to love each other and stand tall in the face of challenges, alShaar said. As of early Tuesday, the country had reported , coronavirus cases, with  deaths. XINHUA