Foreign trade of Chinas Henan up in JanuaryJuly
2020/8/19 10:19
A factory worker sews traditional Tibetan clothing in Gonghe county, Hainan Tibetan autonomous prefecture, Qinghai, on June  ZHANG HONGXIANGXINHUA Strength in numbers sees rural residents incomes rise. Zhang Wenfang reports from Yushu and Hainan Tibetan autonomous prefectures, Qinghai. Milking yaks, herding them on the grassland, watching them graze and then driving them back into their pens From dawn to dusk, this is the summer routine for Phurbu Tsering, a herdsman on the QinghaiTibet Plateau in Northwest China. Of the roughly strong herd under his care,  of the yaks belong to him, while the rest are owned by fellow residents of Shiyi, a village in Chindu county, Yushu Tibetan autonomous prefecture in Qinghai province. Phurbu Tsering looks after other peoples yaks as a member of the village animal husbandry cooperative. The animals are the collectives physical assets. Since I joined the cooperative, my yaks have received better care and I have made more money than ever before, he said. Village head, Jikme Tamdrin, said In the past, it was a real challenge to get the livestock through the winter, especially when snow caused disasters. For example, in the winter of  we lost  percent of our livestock as a result of heavy snowfalls. Shiyi is located on the Jiatang grassland, one of two major expanses in the prefecture. At an average altitude of , meters, it is susceptible to severe winter weather. At the end of , about  families, nearly half the households in the village, were officially classified as povertystricken. The following year, with the help of the countys agricultural and animal husbandry bureau, the village set up the cooperative to better develop livestock farming and find a way out of poverty. The first step was to integrate resources such as labor, pasture and the yaks, said Jikme Tamdrin, who helped found the cooperative. A craftsman carves a tree root at a workshop in Gonghe on June . ZHANG HONGXIANGXINHUA Improved efficiency In the past, the grassland was contracted to each household piece by piece. Each family lived and grazed its animals far from their peers and rarely moved around the pasture. It was a waste of labor because no matter how many yaks a family had, one or , someone was always needed to graze them, Jikme Tamdrin said. It also increased the environmental pressure on the grassland and made it harder for each familys livestock to survive the winter, because herders could only graze livestock on their own stretch of grassland all year round, so they had nowhere to transfer the animals if they were hit by heavy snow. The situation has improved since the cooperative began managing the yaks, labor and grassland in a unified manner. All the small pieces of grassland have been joined together, and the villages entire pasture has been divided into four zones to enable rotational grazing across all four seasons. Fewer people can look after a larger number of livestock and improved animal husbandry has greatly strengthened the ability to resist the impact of natural disasters. From November to March, we graze the yaks in the winter pasture April and May they are in the spring pasture from June to August we use the summer pasture and the autumn pasture in September and October. Overgrazing no longer occurs. The grass is more luxuriant than before, so the yaks eat better and become healthier. In the past, the yaks bore calves every three years. Now they give birth every one or two years, Jikme Tamdrin said. Some villagers have entrusted all their yaks to the cooperative, and its members take turns herding them. People who dont herd have time to do handicrafts or learn a skill, such as cooking or vehicle repair, to make extra money. In addition, some seniors and parents have been freed up to move to the countys downtown area, either to live in retirement or take their children to school. The cooperative also provides supplementary winter feed for the livestock, which helps the animals endure the cold and even severe snowstorms. At the turn of , Yushu was stricken by onceinadecade snowstorms, but we only lost  percent of the yaks, basically the usual yearly rate, Jikme Tamdrin said. Supplementary feeding also makes it possible to milk the yaks in winter and shortens the time for each animal to reach slaughter weight. When yaks get sick, the cooperative can invite a veterinarian to treat them. Moreover, every animal is insured, so owners can claim compensation if their livestock meets with an accident. The cooperative takes responsibility for selling yaks, milk, butter and other products, and shares bonuses with members at years end. From  to , annual profit grew from , yuan to , yuan and then , yuan. By last year, all  households in the village owned a share of the business in various forms by providing cash, labor, livestock or grassland. An artist paints a Tibetan Opera mask at a business incubator park in Nangqen county, Yushu Tibetan autonomous prefecture, Qinghai province, on July . ZHANG WENFANGCHINA DAILY Thanks to the cooperative, government subsidies and other small sources of income, all the impoverished families had been lifted out of poverty by the end of . The village has reaped economic, environmental and social benefits simultaneously with the cooperative, said Jamyang Samdrub, director of the countys agricultural and animal husbandry bureau. People and animals are two essential elements of grassland ecology. Proper animal husbandry helps maintain the ecological balance on the grassland, as the yaks tread grass seeds into the soil and their feces is a natural fertilizer. The yaks, horses and Tibetan sheep eat different kinds of grasses, so they prevent excessive growth and maintain a good diversity of grasses. This method is preferable to a ban on grazing, he said, adding that, contrary to received wisdom, a ban would be bad for the land. In some areas, a complete ban on grazing animals would lead to greater grassland degeneration. Rational grazing and supplementary feeding are better choices to protect the grassland, he said. The expansion of animal husbandry has had other positive effects, creating a sort of ripple around the bedrock industry. Due to the rapid growth in demand for fodder, areas around Shiyi which used to grow crops have started growing fodder grass, which sells at a higher price than crops. It supports the development of animal husbandry in Shiyi while also raising the grass growers incomes, Jamyang Samdrub said. The improvements arent limited to economics, either, as community relations have also seen positive developments. Neighborhood relations and peoples spiritual outlooks have greatly improved, Jamyang Samdrub said. Herders no longer come into conflict with each other over boundary issues on the grassland. In the past, the exchange of information was rare among herders, but now over  villagers work together in the cooperative and frequently learn from each other. In all,  animal husbandry cooperatives have been set up in Qinghai, benefiting , people who previously lived in poverty. Traditional crafts Ninetyeight percent of Yushus residents are members of the Tibetan ethnic group. In addition to conventional animal husbandry, the area supports a range of cooperatives that use traditional Tibetan crafts and culture to boost poverty relief. A business incubator park dedicated to poverty alleviation is bearing fruit in Yushus Nangqen county. Since its launch in November , the park has attracted and supported  rural cooperatives from across the county and benefited  impoverished households, or , people, directly and indirectly. The businesses in the park display strong local features as they produce unique artifacts such as Tibetan black pottery, incense, carvings, highland barley wine, traditional clothing, felt products and thangka paintings. Prominent among these is Tibetan black pottery, the manufacture of which has a history of more than , years and has been officially recognized as a national intangible cultural heritage. Ogyan Tsetan, a young master of the craft, has started a business in the park. He has  employees, with  coming from povertystricken families. A skillful potter can earn about , yuan  a month. Cooperatives in the park enjoy large working spaces and pay monthly rent of just  yuan per square meter. In addition, joining together has raised their profile in the county and beyond, helping to attract more business opportunities. The plus employees each earn around , yuan a month. They had all been lifted out of poverty by the start of last year. By the end of , similar industrial parks had been established in  povertystricken counties in Qinghai, creating more than , jobs. A girl plays on a soccer field in Xinghai county, Hainan Tibetan autonomous prefecture, on Aug . The facility is part of the countys poverty alleviation efforts. XING GUANGLIXINHUA Relocation In some extreme cases, relocation has been the optimal choice to eradicate poverty for example, when a person has no or little livestock or no access to industrial poverty alleviation policies due to their remote location. I feel the relocation policy is like a beam of sunlight streaming into my room and warming my heart, said Yang Zongtai, a yearold resident of a relocation settlement in Xinghai county, Hainan Tibetan autonomous prefecture, Qinghai. Before, Yang and his family lived in a mud hut he built himself in a remote valley. At night, they relied on handmade kerosene lamps for light and heat. Candles were a luxury. My family only has five or six yaks. My wife and I didnt have any skills. There was no tap water, no electricity. We had to fetch water from more than a kilometer away and we had no transportation or asphalt roads, he said. Our familys income was as low as , yuan a year. At an average altitude of , meters, some Xinghai residents face a harsh environment and poor infrastructure, which can cause poverty or exacerbate existing challenges. To solve the problem, the county government provided  million yuan and built the hectare relocation settlement in . As of April last year,  povertystricken households, , people, had moved to new homes from rural areas and pastures with poor infrastructure across the county. Every family was offered a new house for free. Infrastructureincluding a soccer field, asphalt roads, street lamps and bus stopshas been established and the residents also have access to running water and electricity. The house allocated to me is  square meters for my five family members, and I didnt spend a single penny as it was provided by the government. After relocation, I obtained a public welfare post as a grassland keeper, which brings me a stable income of , yuan a month, Yang said. I discarded the kerosene lamps after I moved here, as there was no need for them. Lights, television, microwave oven, electric blanketI enjoy many modern appliances. The transportation infrastructure won high praise in particular. Two bus routes have been designed to ferry the children to and from school, Yang said. The buses come every seven minutes and offer great convenience. It only takes  minutes at most to send the children to school in the downtown by bus, while two to three hours was normal in the past. Yang has gained more sources of income, such as his wages, subsidies to alleviate grazing prohibitions, and selling herbs collected on the mountainside. His familys total annual income is now , to , yuan, and he shook off poverty in . As of July last year, , impoverished households, peoplehad been relocated and lifted out of poverty in Qinghai. Public welfare jobs, rentfree shops, workshops, skills training classes, herb collecting and homestays those are just some of the improvements and activities. The new residents are enjoying more options to raise their incomes, even as they enjoy better infrastructure and more secure lives.