Bauhinia Cup Paints Nostalgia in Anju Ancient Town Calligraphy Event
2020/8/18 17:51
As the Bauhinia Cup event in Anju Ancient Town reached a conclusion, students took a group photograph with master Li Zhonghua and showed off their works of calligraphy on fans.?.ichongqing.info.com Chongqing  On Aug , , the th Bauhinia Cup CrossStrait and Hong KongMacau Youth Painting and Calligraphy Competition was held in the ancient Huguang Guild Hall of Anju Ancient Town in Tongliang district, Chongqing. Teacher Li Zhonghua explained how the type of fan determines the content best suited in works of calligraphy, and so the size of characters and the font should be given strong consideration. As a famed educator in calligraphy, he won the highest distinction in the th National Fan Calligraphy Works Exhibition, the th China Frandin Award of Excellence, the th National Teachers Calligraphy Exhibition, and many other honors. Students listen attentively as teacher Li Zhonghua explains fan calligraphy. .ichongqing.info.com Afterward, the children enjoyed a wonderful Sichuanese opera performance inside the Huguang Guild Hall. The rhythmic music and the swift mask roused them in applause. The performers also walked into the audience to interact closely with the children, hoping that they would fall in love with Sichuanese opera and Chinese traditional culture. As the activity reached its conclusion, the children personally wrote their sincere greetings and wishes for children in Hong Kong and Macau on postcards of Anju Ancient Town and invited them to visit the Dragon hometown of Tongliang. The postcards will be delivered to children in Hong Kong and Macau through the event organizer. Zhou Shiqi in a thirdyear student of Bachuan Middle School in Tongliang. Although it was her first time write brush calligraphy, she has studied Chinese painting for many years. Learning Chinese calligraphy in this ancient town has great charm. Thanks to the teachers guidance, I have found that there are similar principles between Chinese painting and calligraphy. Now I have some experience, I plan to learn calligraphy systematically. Zhang Keyi, a secondyear student at Bachuan Junior School, commented I have studied calligraphy for five years, and I have been to Anju Ancient Town several times, but today I came looking for creative inspiration. Also, its very important to write calligraphy under the guidance of a master. I hope there will be more opportunities to communicate with famous people in the future. Chinese calligraphy master Li Zhonghua demonstrates the techniques needed for painting on fans. .ichongqing.info.com After the calligraphy event, students enjoyed a series of traditional performances on stage inside the Huguang Guild Hall.?.ichongqing.info.com