US Democratic National Convention kicks off
2020/8/18 14:05
Democratic US presidential candidate and former Vice President Joe Biden appears by video feed from Delaware to question voters about their situations in this video frame grab from the start of the virtual  Democratic National Convention as participants from across the country are hosted over video links to the originally planned site of the convention in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, US, August , .  WASHINGTON  The almost entirely virtual  US Democratic National Convention DNC kicked off on Monday night. During the fourday event, presumptive Democratic presidential nominee Joe Biden will accept the nomination and California Senator Kamala Harris will be nominated for his running mate. The quadrennial events host city this year  Milwaukee, Wisconsin  will not see tens of thousands of people gathering for the occasion like in previous years, since the COVID pandemic has forced convention organizers to scale back the event by moving most of its activities online, with each of the four nights events being broadcast from  pm to  pm ET. Originally, the inperson convention with the number of attendees expected to be around , was planned for July, but organizers postponed it due to safety concerns during the pandemic. The nominal main venue in Milwaukee, the Wisconsin Center, is being used for announcing voting results and as a control center to coordinate the livestreaming feeds, keeping the number of people onsite below  following an ordinance by city authorities that also requests the wearing of masks in indoor and outdoor public places. Guest speakers for the inaugural day, including former first lady Michelle Obama, and Bernie Sanders, senator from Vermont and Bidens last rival during the Democratic primaries, were to address a series of challenges facing the nation, including the coronavirus pandemic, the economic recession, and the persistent racial injustice and inequity most recently exposed by the death of black man George Floyd in the hands of white police in May. During her speech, Washington DC Mayor Muriel Bowser ripped into what she said was US President Donald Trumps effort to fan the flames of racism while plotting to suppress peaceful protesters demonstrating near the White House in June during the heyday of the Black Lives Matter movement. ? Rodney and Philonise Floyd, brothers of George Floyd, lead a moment of silence for their brother in a frame grab from live video at the start of the virtual  Democratic National Convention as participants from across the country are hosted over video links from the originally planned site of the convention in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, US, August , .  Philonise Floyd, George Floyds brother, called upon the nation to carry on the fight for justice, saying the actions will be legacies of Floyd and other black people killed by police brutality. Saying the country is in crisis, New York Governor Andrew Cuomo, whose state was once the national epicenter of the coronavirus pandemic, said that over the past few years, Americas body politic has been weakened, and the divisions have grown deeper. Only a strong body can fight off the virus, and Americas divisions weakened it, he said. Former Ohio Governor John Kasich, one of the few Republicans invited to address the DNC, said while he was a lifelong Republican and proud of his Republican heritage, that attachment holds second place to my responsibility to my country. Kasich said it would probably never happen in normal times for a Republican like him to cross the political aisle and endorse a Democratic candidate. But these are not normal times, he said. Bidens former rivals in the Democratic presidential primaries, including New York Senator Kirsten Gillibrand, former Texas congressman Beto ORourke and New Jersey Senator Cory Booker, also attended the event to vouch for the candidate. Sanders, a leading figure of the Democratic Partys progressive camp, offered his vehement compliment for the former vice president. Listing a number of Bidens policy proposals that are desiged to bridge income gaps, combat climate change, expand healthcare, reform the criminal justice system and address racial injustice, Sanders asked his and other former Democratic presidential candidates supporters to elect Joe Biden and Kamala Harris as our next president and vice president, adding the price of failure is just too great to imagine. Former first lady Michelle Obama speaks in a frame grab from the live video feed of the all virtual  Democratic National Convention as participants from across the country are hosted over video links to the originally planned site of the convention in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, US, August , .  The last speaker on Monday night, former first lady Michelle Obama, delivered a thinlyveiled political speech, sweepingly denouncing Trumps presidency and bluntly calling him the wrong president for our country. I know Joe, he is a profoundly decent man guided by faith, Obama said of Biden in a video clip that was pretaped. He was a terrific vice president. He knows what it takes to rescue an economy, beat back a pandemic and lead our country. Trump, who was at a campaign event in Oshkosh, Wisconsin on Monday, reacted to Obamas attacks, saying Who wants to listen to Michelle Obama do a taped speech? No youve got to get her up there. In addition to Wisconsin, three other swing states of Minnesota, Arizona and Pennsylvania are also on the presidents travel schedule this week, where he has planned to give pointed speeches to counter the DNC. The Trump team has also been running a fourday, multimilliondollar digital ad campaign that not only takes over videosharing site YouTube, but also occupies the websites of The Wall Street Journal, The Washington Post and Fox News.