Moderate slowdown in Italys new COVID cases, all dance halls shut
2020/8/18 9:00
? A woman wears a mask as she walks on the street following a government decree that face coverings must be worn between  pm and  am in areas close to bars and pubs and where gatherings are more likely, due to the coronavirus disease COVID outbreak, in Naples, Italy, August , .  ROME  Italy registered a moderate slowdown in the daily number of new coronavirus cases on Monday, as authorities warned the countrys top priority was to reopen schools in September in the best safety conditions. On the same day, a new governments decree ordering the temporary closure of all discos across the country entered into force. Some  new cases were registered over the past  hours against  in the previous day, according to the latest statistics provided by the countrys Health Ministry. The central Lazio region surrounding Rome  had the highest increase, along with northeast Veneto  and northwest Lombardy . Active infections rose by  to total ,. The large majority of them are people currently isolated at home, while  patients are hospitalized, and  in intensive care up by  cases and  cases, respectively. Four fatalities were also registered on a daily basis, bringing the countrys death toll to , since the pandemic broke out in the northern regions in late February, data showed. As  more people recovered, the number of people cured grew to ,. Considering active infections, recoveries, and fatalities, the total of assessed cases stood at ,. DANCE HALLS SHUT Meanwhile, all dancing activities outdoor and indoor taking place in discos, dancing clubs, and any other locations open to the public including beaches were halted on Monday, following a specific decree passed by the Italian government on Sunday. The suspension will remain in place until Sept. . The decree also reintroduced the obligation for people to wear face masks outdoors from  p.m. to  a.m. in all the places where there is a risk of gatherings, even spontaneous or casual. This would apply to both city squares and seafronts across the country, for example. The decree specified that regional governments were allowed to introduce further measures, but only if more restrictive. SCHOOL REOPENING A PRIORITY The numbers referring to the contagion in Italy... are growing, and we cannot undo the sacrifices we all have made over the past few months, Health Minister Roberto Speranza said on Monday in a statement. Our priority must be to reopen our schools in September in complete safety, he said. On the same lines sounded Franco Locatelli, president of Italys Higher Health Council and member of the technicalscientific committee counseling the cabinet in the coronavirus emergency. We are going to reopen schools at any cost, Locatelli told Italian newspaper Il Corriere della Sera in an interview earlier in the day. Infections are increasing, but we are still ahead of the virus spreading and we can contain the pandemic. The scholar explained up to  percent of the new cases were imported by Italians returning from traveling abroad or foreigners residing in the country. On Aug. , after a deal with regional governments, the cabinet introduced mandatory COVID tests on people returning from Greece, Spain, Malta, and Croatia in the place where they arrive airport, port, train station, or in the  hours after their arrival. The measure was launched following several confirmed cases of people returning from the abovementioned European countries and developing the infection. Many of these are young Italians spending their holidays abroad.