The world in photos Aug
2020/8/17 11:24
Here are some of the most striking images taken from around the world over the past week. The shattered glasses are collected to be recycled at a dump in Beirut, Lebanon, Aug , . Two huge explosions rocked Port of Beirut on Aug , shaking buildings all over the Lebanese capital, and killing over  while wounding , others. Losses were estimated by Beiruts governor at more than  billion.  A boy cools himself under a steam fountain at the Paris Plages in Paris on Aug , .  The door of Postmaster General Louis DeJoys condo is seen stuffed with mock mailin ballots during a protest against changes in the postal service, as the spread of the coronavirus disease COVID continues, in Washington, August , .  People watch the annual Perseid meteor shower in Istria, Croatia on Aug , .  A zookeeper feeds a tiger at the Jaime Duque Park in Tocancipa, Cundinamarca Department, Colombia on Aug , . Affected by the COVID outbreak, the zoo has been closed for months. Photo Xinhua Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu delivers a speech at a press conference in Jerusalem on Aug , . Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said on Thursday his country and the United Arab Emirates reached a full and official peace deal.  A woman in Tunisian folk costume attends celebrations of the annual National Womens Day in downtown Tunis, Tunisia on Aug , . Photo Xinhua Fireworks are seen at the MinarePakistan monument during Independence Day celebrations in eastern Pakistans Lahore on Aug , . Pakistan gained independence from the British colonial rule in . Photo Xinhua A Palestinian girl waits to enter Egypt with her family through the Rafah border crossing, in the southern Gaza Strip city of Rafah, on Aug , . For the first time in five months, Egypt on Tuesday reopened Rafah crossing point on the borders with southern Gaza Strip for three days to allow hundreds of stranded Palestinian travelers to cross.  People wash their clothes as Mount Sinabung spews ash in Karo of North Sumatra, Indonesia on Aug , . Mount Sinabung in Indonesias North Sumatra provinces district of Karo on Thursday erupted three times around  am local time, a local official said. Photo Xinhua People wearing face masks are seen in Rabat, Morocco, on Aug , . Morocco on Sunday reported , new COVID cases, raising the total number of infections in the country to ,.  Cartoon characters wearing face masks are seen in front of a store in Tokyo on Aug , .  Medics pass by a graffiti painted on a wall to honor health workers in the COVID outbreak at a hospital in Sao Paulo, Brazil on Aug , . 