US ginseng farmers hit hard by trade tensions, COVID
2020/8/17 8:49
Ginseng farmer Jiang Mingtao at his company in Marathon County in the US state of Wisconsin. Photo by Liu YananXinhua CHICAGO  Jiang Mingtao, a ginseng farmer in Marathon County in the US state of Wisconsin, has maintained the daily routine of taking care of his ginseng fields, weeding and spreading hay to prevent small animals from digging and eating the crop. Harvest will start in less than a month, but Jiang is a bit worried. Trade tensions between China and the United States have dealt a big blow to his ginseng cultivation business, and now the prevailing COVID pandemic has further plunged the operation into uncertainty. As there is still inventory on the market, we have postponed many harvests until next year, and will probably harvest between a quarter and a half of our ginseng field this year, Jiang says. Jiang inspects his ginseng field on Thursday.?Photo by Liu YananXinhua Jiang launched Marathon Ginseng International in . With China being a leading consumer of ginseng, Jiang has been targeting the Chinese market from the beginning. As of , the company exported half of its production to the Chinese market. The stayathome orders imposed at the early stage of the COVID pandemic reduced the number of workers at the farm. Then Chinese buyers and US producers could not travel freely. We have not received any Chinese purchase orders so far, so the export side of the business has been severely hurt. Jiang attended the China International Import Expo in  and , where he got acquainted with many Chinese businesses and clients and signed letters of intent for cooperation. Due to quarantine policies, I cannot attend this years CIIE, Jiang says sullenly. But our distribution partners in China may attend the fair. Wisconsin ginseng enjoyed a good reputation in China. In , before tariffs started, the state exported  million dollars worth of ginseng to China alone, up more than  percent from . The US total ginseng exports were valued at about  million dollars in , and China was the biggest buyer. Now there are few flights between China and the US, and Wisconsins ginseng export to China has decreased dramatically. Many ginseng farmers here plan to retire this year, and are selling their tractors, planters and ginsengpicking machines, Jiang says. As for Jiang, he is shifting focus to sales within the US. At the early stage of the pandemic, he provided ginseng tea free of charge to more than , local households. He also promoted wearing masks and introduced Chinese experiences of quarantine on the companys social media accounts. Our Chinese partners sent us protective masks. We also bought some. Together we donated these masks to local hospitals and nursing homes, Jiang says. As for the prospect of the ginseng industry, Jiang says, Until the pandemic is under control, and until ChinaUS relationship improves, I am not optimistic about the ginseng industry. He notes that ginseng is a niche product and has a unique presence in China and the world, and ginseng cultivation in Wisconsin will continue, albeit on a smaller scale for now. Xinhua