Emotional response
2020/8/15 16:47
People wearing masks walk in the Central area of Hong Kong, on July , .  HONG KONG  Hong Kong on Friday revised down the official forecast on the gross domestic product GDP for this year weighed on by the COVID outbreak, but pledged more efforts to help the economy bounce back after the epidemic is brought under control. Andrew Au, an economist of the government of Chinas Hong Kong Special Administrative Region HKSAR, predicted the GDP would drop  percent to  percent yearonyear in  as the economic outlook is still highly uncertain. The projection worsened from the previous estimate announced by the HKSAR government at the end of April that the economy would contract by  percent to  percent this year. Au said the latest forecast takes into account the actual economic activities in the first half of the year, and the difficult and uncertain economic environment in the second half, as well as the cushioning effects of the governments massive relief measures. If the current wave of local infection can be contained within a short time and barring any further sharp deterioration in the external environment, economic performance for  as a whole can hopefully fall within the upper half of the range forecast, Au said. Hong Kongs GDP slumped  percent yearonyear in the second quarter of this year, falling short of market expectations and only slightly improving from a record .percent drop in the first quarter. Analysts pointed out that the epidemic dampened business activities and the impact of social unrest lingered. Hong Kongs Center for Health Protection reported  new confirmed cases of COVID on Friday, bringing the total confirmed cases to ,. A large proportion of the cases were reported in the third wave of the epidemic since early July. Smaller economic indicators appeared to be more alarming. Fixed capital formation slipped at a sharper pace to . percent yearonyear in the second quarter, and private consumption slumped . percent, the largest decline of all time. The jobless rate remained at the overyear high of . percent during the AprilJune quarter. Financial Secretary of the HKSAR government Paul Chan said earlier this month that the economy is likely to face greater pressures in the third quarter and more time is needed than expected for recovery. The government will continue to closely monitor the situation and roll out measures as necessary to maintain the vitality of the economy and pave the way for a speedy recovery once the threat of the epidemic recedes, Au said. Given the grave economic situation, the HKSAR government has already rolled out unprecedented relief measures worth nearly  billion Hong Kong dollars . billion to help safeguard jobs, support enterprises and relieve peoples financial burdens. While the government relief can only help businesses keep afloat for a longer time, it is the epidemic developments that can truly decide when the economy can start to pick up. Only when the coronavirus spread is contained, Hong Kongs economic activities can be resumed. Although Hong Kongs economic ties with foreign countries are still unlikely to recover amid the pandemic, the enormous consumer market and financial demands of the mainland, where life has largely returned normal, will offer a great opportunity for the Hong Kong economy to revive, Chan said. Taking advantage of the GuangdongHong KongMacao Greater Bay Area development, Hong Kong can hopefully revive and peoples livelihood can also improve after the epidemic is over, Chan said.