Trump, Biden trade barbs on virus response
2020/8/15 13:50
A nurse wearing personal protective equipment watches an ambulance driving away outside of Elmhurst Hospital during the ongoing outbreak of the coronavirus disease COVID in the Queens borough of New York, US, April , .  Masks center stage as poll challenger sharpens attack on US presidents record US President Donald Trump on Thursday attacked Joe Biden for calling on governors to mandate the wearing of masks for the next three months, accusing the Democratic presidential candidate of politicizing an issue Trump himself has used for political gain. Trump claimed Biden has been wrong about the pandemic at every turn, ignoring the scientific evidence and putting leftwing politics before facts and evidence.He went on to falsely say that Biden was advocating for the president to use executive power to institute a nationwide mask mandate and that Biden was in favor of locking all Americans in their basements for months on end. To Joe, I would say stop playing politics with the virus, Trump said at a White House news conference. Biden did not call for an executive order, but did at an earlier campaign event call for the institution of a mask mandate nationwide, starting immediately. Biden clarified, however, that it should be left up to the governors to make maskwearing mandatory. He said nothing about keeping people indoors, but has argued that economic reopenings in states have been rushed and done without proper guidance from the federal government to keep people safe. Trump spent the early months of the pandemic refusing to wear a mask during public appearances, ridiculing reporters who wore them, and retweeting messages making fun of Biden for wearing a mask and implying that he looks weak. Trump first wore a mask in public about a month ago, during a visit to a military hospital, and has since expressed support for them at times. On Thursday, he said its patriotic for US citizens to wear masks, but added Maybe theyre great, and maybe theyre just good. Maybe theyre not so good. Biden, at his earlier event, said all US people should wear masks, citing health experts predictions that it could save , lives from the virus over the next three months. The presumptive Democratic presidential candidate also responded to those who push back against such mandates. This is America. Be a patriot. Protect your fellow citizens. Step up, do the right thing, Biden said at the time. The backandforth marked a new line of attack from Trump, who is trailing Biden significantly in most nationwide and swingstate surveys. Biden has made what he says is Trumps mishandling of the pandemicwhich has now caused the deaths of , people in the countrya centerpiece of his attacks on the president. Health experts are adamant about the need for people to wear masks and maintain social distance to defeat a pandemic that has already infected  million people and killed , worldwide. Quick action Doctor Anthony Fauci, who heads the US National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, urged US states to take quick action to stamp out even slight upticks in COVID cases. Fauci, who has, at times, found himself at odds with Trumps response to the pandemic, also said he is cautiously optimistic a COVID vaccine could be developed soon, but acknowledged the chances it would be highly effective are not great. Doctor Robert Redfield, head of the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, had acknowledged during an ABC News interview that the initial federal government response to the virus was too slow. The US on Wednesday reported nearly , new coronavirus cases, the highest oneday tally in four days, and , deaths, its highest daily count since May , when there were ,, according to data compiled by Johns Hopkins University. On Thursday, the number of new cases decreased by  to ,. Total cases in the US topped . million, about a quarter of the worldwide total, according to the data. On Thursday, Trump again dismissed critics who say he was too slow to react to the pandemic in the US, saying on Fox Business Network that nobody blames me. As for the virus, Trump said It will be going away. Agencies and Ai Heping in New York contributed to this story.