Mounting confirmed virus cases in US alarms Europe
2020/8/14 20:16
A health worker walks between beds at a temporary field hospital set up by Medecins Sans Frontieres MSF during the coronavirus disease COVID outbreak in Khayelitsha township near Cape Town, South Africa, July , .  While progress has been made in Africa in terms of curbing the spread of coronavirus, the World Health Organization is calling on governments to step up readiness and response measures, particularly at the subnational levels. The UN agency said with the loosening of movement restrictions, there are risks the virus may spread into remote areas of the continent. As of Aug , Africa had recorded ,, confirmed cases and ,  deaths. According to the Africa Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, average new cases reported per day from Aug  to  in the continent stands at ,, a decrease from the previous weeks ,. The Africa CDC said five countries account for  percent of all cases in the continent South Africa with  percent, Egypt with . percent, Nigeria with . percent, Ghana with . percent and Algeria with . percent. Not only must we keep up with evolving trends, we must also anticipate, predict and act faster to head off potentially disastrous outcomes, Dr. Matshidiso Moeti, WHO regional director for Africa, said in a statement on Aug . Areas of high transmission, as well as localities with relatively fewer infections, both deserve attention. In short we must be strong on all fronts. A recent assessment carried out by the WHO based on selfreporting by  countries indicated improved coronavirus response capacity in terms of surveillance, coordination, case management and laboratory capacity, as well as infection prevention and control. The score increased from  percent six months ago, when the virus was first detected in the continent, to  percent. The UN agency said despite the fact much progress has been made at the national level, countries are lagging behind at the district level, specifically on coordination, infection prevention and control as well as clinical care for patients. This is despite the fact that unlike the onset, where the virus affected highdensity urban areas, cases are now being recorded in informal settlements and could move to rural areas in the coming days. In Africa, curbing coronavirus is a marathon and not a sprint. We are observing multiple local outbreaks, each with their own infection patterns and peaks. It is by bolstering the response at the community level that we will win this race. The response must be integrated into the fabric of every health district, Dr. Moeti said. In Kenya, for instance, while capital Nairobi and the port city of Mombasa continue to lead in terms of coronavirus infections, all  counties have reported confirmed cases. With that in mind, the government through the ministry of health has been urging county governments to prepare to handle the outbreak by ensuring health centers are wellCequipped, and healthcare workers are trained to handle infected cases. The ministry has also been urging the public, especially residents of rural areas, to observe health and safety guidelines like washing hands with soap, observing social distancing and wearing masks when in public. Governors have taken the lead in sensitizing residents in rural areas to observe guidelines and curb spread of the virus. On Aug , for instance, Alfred Mutua, governor of Machakos County, visited Kithyoko shopping center along the MwingiGarissa Road, where he urged local people to take the coronavirus pandemic seriously and observe guidelines. As it was a market day, the governor was able to reach a large crowd of people, and also distributed face masks.