Biden, Harris kick off  campaign
2020/8/14 20:04
Zhang Jing celebrates as she finishes the National College Entrance Exam in Beijing on July , .  Colleges in Beijing will organize students to go back to campus gradually starting on Saturday, provided epidemic prevention measures in the colleges are fully undertaken, a senior official from the education authority said on Friday. Li Yi, spokesman for the Beijing Municipal Education Commission, said at a press conference all students and teachers in primary schools, high schools and colleges should continue to wear masks after returning to campus. They can take off masks when doing outdoor activities, provided there are no crowds, he said. The Beijing education authority released the timetable for the citys fall semester last week. Primary and middle school students will gradually start incampus classes for the fall semester starting on Aug , with different dates for different grades. First grade students at primary schools, first and final grades for junior high schools and all senior high school students will go back to campus on Aug . Fifth grade and final grade students for the primary schools, as well as second grade students in junior high schools, will go back to campus on Sep . The rest of the grades in primary schools will start their fall semester on Sep . Children in the second and third year of kindergarten will go back to campus on Sep , and firstyear kids will start kindergarten on Sep . All training institutions should resume classes after applying for approval from the authorities. College students will be the first group of students coming back to campus in Beijing, because many college students are from other cities. To organize college students to come back to Beijing in a long period of time can reduce the risk of infection during the transportation, Li said. The commission has detailed plans for health monitoring and school entry regulations for colleges. All schools are suggested to be closed to the public, and only students and teachers can enter campus.