National authorities release guidelines for fall semester
2020/8/14 9:54
 JIANGXI , yuan reward offered for suspect Police in Jiangxi provinces Lean county offered a , yuan , reward on Thursday for information leading to the capture of the man suspected of killing three people and injuring another in the past week. The reward was raised from , yuan on Saturday after media reports said that Zeng Chunliang, the suspect, killed a local poverty relief official on Thursday while fleeing from police who were pursuing him over a homicide case in which two were killed and one was injured on Saturday. During the manhunt, an auxiliary police officer in Lean was hit by a truck while examining vehicles passing by a provinciallevel highway and died on Thursday afternoon. Rescue workers evacuate people?at Lahadi Station?on the KunmingHekou metergauge railway, in Yunnan province, on Aug , .  YUNNAN Mudslide leads railway to suspend service Heavy rain triggered a mudslide on Thursday morning, prompting authorities to suspend services on a section of a railway in Yunnan province. China Railway Kunming Group said the mudslide hit Lahadi Station on the KunmingHekou metergauge railway at about  am, submerging some trains parked at the station and disrupting railway communication. All of the  staff members and their families at the station have been evacuated, and service on a section of the railway has been suspended. The company has mobilized workers to repair the railway, which handles Chinas exports to Vietnam, and has redirected freight trains to another standardgauge railway. Boxes of N protective masks for use by medical field personnel are seen at a New York State emergency operations incident command center during the coronavirus outbreak in New Rochelle, New York, US, on March , . File photoAgencies HUNAN , masks sent to US sister city Changsha municipal government has donated , medicalgrade face masks to Annapolis, Maryland, its sister city in the United States, local media reported. The donation from Changsha, capital of Hunan province, was first offered to officials in Annapolis, Marylands capital, in April, when the need for masks among public safety workers was at its highest in the early days of the COVID pandemic, according to a statement by Annapolis City Manager David Jarrell. The masks arrived in August, with one of the boxes featuring stickers of US and Chinese flags with a message readingGo, City of Annapolis! Best Wishes from Changsha! True unity inspires people to work as one to overcome adversity, the Capital Gazette newspaper reported.  BEIJING Return of assets in criminal cases sped up Chinas law enforcement authorities have issued rules to expedite the return of assets in criminal cases to improve the efficacy of the use of poverty relief funds. According to rules issued by the Supreme Peoples Court, the Supreme Peoples Procuratorate and the Ministry of Public Security, assets in criminal cases in the poverty relief area should be returned within five working days to relevant individuals or organizations after law enforcement departments have approved them. Xinhua