Mexicos masked warriors on the ropes
2020/8/14 9:51
Lucha libres coronavirusenforced shutdown spells desperate times for its outofwork wrestlers ? El Fantasma waits in line with fellow wrestlers to receive food parcels donated by a local supermarket in Mexico City on Aug . REUTERS Mexicos legendary masked wrestlers have been economically bodyslammed by the coronavirus pandemic, with some resorting to food parcels or even underground fights to survive a ban on sporting events. Several months into the pandemic, the arenas that would usually draw thousands of rowdy spectators watching the countrys freestyle wrestling, known as lucha libre, have remained closed. Lucha libre is one of Mexicos most popular forms of entertainment and a tourist magnet, featuring masked fighters who capture the publics imagination with their mysterious identities and eccentric performances. The sector employs between , and , wrestlers, most of whom do not have health insurance or a pension plan, according to associations that represent them. Sports such as soccer resumed last month without live audiences. But lucha libre generates most of its income from boxoffice sales. Its hit us because all arenas, gyms and rings, everything has closed, said yearold veteran fighter Octagon, dressed in his trademark black kimono and mask. If we dont fight, we dont earn, he said.We thought this was going to last three or four weeks, and weve been here for almost four months. Shot of aid In June, Octagon, who founded and heads the National Association of Independent Professional Wrestlers, launched a Shot of Aid campaign. Using proceeds from the auction of wrestlers masks, attire and other items, the program provides hardup wrestlers and boxers with food packed with provisions. Another famous masked wrestler,El Fantasmaa character inspired by American adventure comic strip The Phantomsaid the Mexico City Boxing and Wrestling Commission he heads has distributed more than , food boxes to unemployed colleagues. Sandra Gonzalez, a yearold wrestler otherwise known as Lady Apache, said such handouts were not enough. We dont need a food delivery, we need a loan, she said. More than a dozen wrestlers told Reuters they were seeing their savings dwindle. Fortunately I had savings, but not any longer, said wrestler Super Elektra, who also works as a dental technician but has been unable to return to either of his jobs. World Wrestling Council and Lucha Libre AAA Worldwide, which promote and run lucha libre, have said professionals will continue to be paid. The wrestlers that Reuters spoke to said such payments did not reach everybody. Lucha Libre AAA Worldwide plans to launch a format that would allow spectators to watch the action from their cars, akin to a drivein movie theater. For now, despair has led some wrestlers to organize matches without a live audience that are broadcast over the internet for a donation of  pesos . per viewer. Not all wrestlers are in favor, saying coronavirus protocols are not being followed. At least  Mexican wrestlers lost their lives to COVID in May and June, according to the Boxing and Wrestling Commission. I dont agree with those underground fights, said El Fantasma.I dont think they have adequate measures put in place. REUTERS