Combining fantasy and creativity to reflect pandemic times
2020/8/14 9:21
? ? Viktor  Rolfs autumnwinter  collection combines fantasy and creativity reflective of pandemic times Photo provided to China Daily Dynamic Dutch design duo Viktor  Rolf have used the global pandemic, lockdown and social distancing to their unique advantage with an autumnwinter collection called Change, which comprises three wardrobes for three mind sets in these extraordinary times. Being avantgarde trailblazers, the pair has subverted the traditional catwalk by showcasing the collection in a special haute couture presentation. Each one of the three miniwardrobes which range from high art and fine art to fantasy, freak show and spoof symbolises a different state of mind and features three outfits a nightgown, a dressing gown and a coat. A model presents creations from Viktor  Rolfs autumnwinter  collection. Photo provided to China Daily The first wardrobe embodies a sombre mood. A satin nightgown sports intricate lace incrustations with a raincloud motif, a grey chenille dressing gown has an intricate bow and extralong sleeves, and a majestic coat is clad in animalfriendly fauxleather. Its volume and spiky cone motif impresses and emanates a feeling of socially distanced safety. The look is finished with a face mask accessory. A model presents creations from Viktor  Rolfs autumnwinter  collection. Photo provided to China Daily The second set represents the conflicting emotions that were all dealing with. The nightgown is festooned with a polkadot motif of contradictory emoji, each representing a state of mind. The accompanying dressing gown has asymmetric sashes and bows down the left sleeve, while a maximalist asymmetric coat in pink and yellow pleather with glittery accents completes the look. A model presents creations from Viktor  Rolfs autumnwinter  collection. Photo provided to China Daily The final three ensembles radiate love in the form of exaggerated heart logos. Red, black and white lace incrustations on a white satin nightgown are used to the opposite effect as in the first miniwardrobe C melancholy becomes serenity. The dressing gown has a snug bodice and an important skirt, featuring two heartshaped pockets in quilted red satin. The finale coat in white faux leather features a heart symbol that proclaims unity, suggesting that we all deserved to be loved regardless of age, colour, gender, race, religion or sexuality, and is adorned with glittering hearts. A model presents creations from Viktor  Rolfs autumnwinter  collection. Photo provided to China Daily A model presents creations from Viktor  Rolfs autumnwinter  collection. Photo provided to China Daily For the ultimate in chic and in entertainment, the collection is amplified by a Marijke Aerdendirected film shot at Amsterdams Waldorf Astoria hotel, featuring an inimitable Viktor  Rolfwritten script thats narrated by singer Mika. Check it out on Vimeo C its a mustwatch. A model presents creations from Viktor  Rolfs autumnwinter  collection. Photo provided to China Daily A model presents creations from Viktor  Rolfs autumnwinter  collection. Photo provided to China Daily