Cuttingedge knitting technique presented to the fore
2020/8/14 7:02
Awardwinning Chinese animation, The Town, revolves around the negative impact of bias and stereotyping.?Photo provided to China Daily Many are expected to live by established social norms. But what happens if the norms have a ridiculous side? Arc Anime Studio, a Shenzhenbased company comprising mostly young animators, who are age  on average, has spent four years figuring out the answer through The Town, a minute animation, which recently won plaudits at home and abroad. The film won the best short film award at the th FIRST International Film Festival, held in Xining, capital of Northwest Chinas Qinghai province, from July  to Aug . With the rise in recognition of arthouse cinema in China in recent years, the festival has come to be known as an incubator for young talent and paving the way for independent movies. Actor Zhou Yiwei, who alongside actor Wang Chuanjun presented the award during the festival, has hailed the film for its beautiful scenes and skillful fictionalization of society that reflects social issues. Its a big surprise. The honor will encourage us and fellow animators to pursue the diversity of Chinese animation production, says Jason Gu, producer of The Town. In July, the movie won the JeanLuc Xiberras Award for a first film at the th Annecy International Animated Film Festival, an event called the Oscars of animated films. As the French festival was held online due to the ongoing COVID pandemic, the Xining event marks the first time for the movie to be limitedly screened in local theaters in China. Awardwinning Chinese animation, The Town, revolves around the negative impact of bias and stereotyping.?Photo provided to China Daily Unfolding with a birdseye view, the beginning scenea continuous long shottakes the audience to an isolated town nestled in lush mountains. The town is reminiscent of southern Chinas traditional architectural style. It has cobblestone alleyways and houses with black tiles and white walls. With conflicts between the protagonist siblingsa restrained sister and her rebellious younger brotherthe fantastical story unfolds around a strange social norm in the town. That is, locals strongly believe theyll live better lives after undergoing a surgery called xiurong facepolishing. Anyone who gets the approval to undertake the surgery will be taken to a special room, where the person puts on a wooden mask and gets injected in the face. After the surgery, the person will have a new face in accordance with the appearance of the chosen mask. The masks vary in appearance and provide different functions such as making a person look like elite. While the brother strongly resists the unwritten rule and tries to escape the town, the sister, who works as a mask sculptor in the towns top xiurong institution, is more compliant. She seeks approval to receive the surgeryher greatest dream for improving their familys economic situation. The draft idea of The Town was first shaped in early , when our animation team was brainstorming a story about a person who resists being labeled but is forced to behave like the others, says Gu. From then and until the end of , the animation team, which had expanded from  to more than  members, revised the script many times, with the theme finally revolving around the negative impact of bias and stereotyping. With over  shots set in around  locations, the film depicts nearly  characters and displays more than  props, a large amount for a short animated work. When we decided to produce the film, we didnt think much about commercial returns. We were attracted to the idea of creating an unlikely story, says Gu. The major creators hope that the movie will help the audience to reflect more about the contradictions between individuality and social conformity, he adds. The film is scheduled to be released on Chinese streaming sites later this year. Contact the writer at xufanchinadaily.com.cn