Sri Lanka holds first wedding exhibition since COVID outbreak
2020/8/14 0:00
The novel coronavirus has pummeled the United Kingdoms economy with particular ferocity, shrinking it by a fifth during the second quarter and forcing it into its deepest recession on record. The Office for National Statistics, or ONS, said on Wednesday that gross domestic product fell by . percent during the quarter, with the decline since the end of  double that of the United States, and second only among European nations to tourismdependent Spain. But the ONS did have a little good news, announcing an . percent bounce back during June from the lowest point in April. Jonathan Athow, deputy national statistician at the ONS, told the Financial Times The recession brought on by the coronavirus pandemic has led to the biggest fall in quarterly GDP on record. Overall, he said productivity saw its largest fall in the second quarter since the threeday week, which was a time in  when the UK reduced working hours amid electricity shortages. Rishi Sunak, the UKs finance minister, said Todays figures confirm that hard times are here... But while there are difficult choices to be made ahead, we will get through this. Business groups called on the government to support enterprises by slashing taxes and ensuring easier access to loans. The BBC said the latest figures show the recession was caused by household spending plummeting because of the novel coronavirus lockdown, with shops closed for months and construction projects and factories mothballed. Hotels, restaurants, and schools were also closed, but many have since reopened, suggesting the economy will improve. Services bear brunt The ONS said the service sector experienced its biggest quarterly decline on record. The data followed official figures on Tuesday that showed the cost of the economic crisis in terms of jobs, with the number of people in work falling between April and June by ,. Sunak told the BBC the economy had performed less well than its EU counterparts because the UK is serviceorientated and relies heavily on the hospitality industry and consumer spending. Those kinds of activities comprise a much larger share of our economy than they do for most of our European cousins. The vulnerability of businesses that rely on consumer spending was highlighted on Wednesday by an announcement from retailer Debenhams, which said it will cut an additional , jobs in its department stores and warehouses. The Guardian newspaper said the retailer has continued to suffer despite having reopened  stores after the lockdown was eased. The group made , people redundant earlier this year. The bad news follows newsagent WH Smith saying last week it would cut , jobs, and fashion chain M  Co closing  stores and slashing  jobs. With such carnage on the jobs front, students have much to think about, but at least those preparing to leave high school and enter university can relax about the way in which their grades will be calculated in the wake of the cancellation of exams. The students were to have grades assigned to them but Gavin Williamson, the UKs education minister, said they will be able to use the results of mock exams if they feel their assigned grades are too low. A further relaxation of the UKs lockdown comes as France has announced it is seeing a spike in infections. France has brought in stricter measures as a result, including the requirement that people wear face masks in more situations. As of early Thursday, Europe has reported ,, confirmed cases with , deaths, according to the World Health Organization. earlemail.chinadailyuk.com ?