Central government committed to protecting HK residents health
2020/8/13 7:25
People wearing masks walk in the Central area of Hong Kong, July , .  Hong Kong is witnessing a new wave of COVID infections. Therefore, it is incumbent upon the central government to control the new outbreak in the special administrative region, and accordingly, the Standing Committee of the National Peoples Congress on Wednesday extended the tenure of the sixth Legislative Council in Hong Kong by no less than one year so it can function normally and take measures to prevent and control the spread of the novel coronavirus. Earlier, the SAR government postponed the election to LegCo, originally scheduled for Sept , to next year in view of the risks posed by the new outbreak to public health in the SAR. On July , the Hong Kong and Macao Affairs Office of the State Council, Chinas Cabinet, issued a statement saying the central government has decided to send some medical experts from the Chinese mainland to Hong Kong at the request of the SAR government to conduct largescale nucleic acid tests and expedite the construction of temporary quarantine and treatment centers to help contain the new outbreak in the city at the earliest. On Aug , seven members of the first nucleic acid testing team, formed by the National Health Commission, arrived in Hong Kong to assist the SAR government in laboratory work. The central medical team will stay in Hong Kong until the virus is brought under control and its transmission chains are cut off. Since the pandemic broke out at the beginning of this year, the central government has been providing guidance and support for Hong Kongs pandemic prevention and control work, and coordinating the delivery of medical supplies and daily necessities to the city. It has also helped Hong Kong compatriots stranded on the mainland and abroad to return to Hong Kong. Also, relevant State departments and local governments have maintained close communication with the SAR government and supported it in strengthening port control, and provided assistance for containing the virus during the first two waves of infections. However, since the beginning of July, the SAR has been in the grip of a third wave of infections, with daily new cases being more  for two consecutive weeks until the first few days of August. Since many of the newly infected people dont show any symptoms, they pose a big health risk as they can unknowingly transmit the virus to other Hong Kong residents, underscoring the need for early testing, early quarantine and early treatment. The SAR government has also taken several strict measures to contain the virus, which have been welcomed by the majority of Hong Kong residents. But since the SARs healthcare system is already under great strain, all sections of Hong Kong society sought assistance from the central government, with the SAR government formally requesting the central government for medical support. The safety, health and wellbeing of Hong Kong residents are the common concerns of all Chinese people. In the fight against COVID, the central government has always put peoples safety and health first, and its support to protect the health of Hong Kong residents highlights its peoplecentric governance philosophy. In the face of the severe pandemic situation, the central government is committed to providing necessary support for the SAR government to contain the virus, demonstrating the great importance it attaches to the safety and health of Hong Kong compatriots. At present, the top priority of the central government, as well as SAR government and Hong Kong society is to stop the spread of the virus. So the entire Hong Kong society should support and cooperate with the local government to make its prevention and control measures a success. And all Hong Kong residents and organizations, irrespective of their political affiliations, should fight the pandemic together with the local government. They should unite under the banner of one country, two systems, create conditions for the early recovery of Hong Kongs economy and the improvement of peoples livelihoods, and work to build a more secure, stable and prosperous tomorrow. The author is an associate professor at the Institute of Contemporary China Studies, the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences. The views dont necessarily represent those of China Daily.