Music fans head for breath of fresh air
2020/8/12 9:08
Women wearing protective face masks shop at a bazaar following the outbreak of the coronavirus disease COVID, in Tehran, Iran, July , .  CAIRO  Iran on Tuesday called for extending the cooperation on fighting COVID in Eastern Mediterranean region. Meanwhile, the tally of coronavirus infections in Saudi Arabia surpassed ,. The total COVID infections in Iran, the hardesthit country in the Middle East, rose to , after , new cases were registered. Sima Sadat Lari, the spokeswoman for Irans Ministry of Health and Medical Education, said the death toll from the novel coronavirus increased to , after  more fatalities were added overnight. So far, , patients have recovered from the disease while , others remain in critical condition in Iran, she said. Irans Minister of Health and Medical Education Saeed Namaki proposed to extend the World Health Organization WHO Eastern Mediterranean cooperation program against COVID to more countries in West Asia. He made the proposal during an online meeting with the WHOs Eastern Mediterranean Regional Director Ahmed AlMandhari, and the health ministers of the Eastern Mediterranean regions countries, on the regions response to the coronavirus pandemic. Saudi Arabia reported , new COVID cases on Tuesday, bringing the total infections to ,. The death toll climbed by  to ,, while the total recoveries in the kingdom soared to , after , new recoveries were added. In Iraq, the health ministry reported , new COVID cases, bringing the total infections to ,. It also confirmed  more fatalities, raising the death toll to ,, while , more patients recovered, bringing the total recoveries to ,. Riyadh AbdulAmir, head of the ministrys Public Health Department, said that Iraq wants to secure the Russian COVID vaccine after it is internationally approved. AbdulAmirs comments came hours after Russian President Vladimir Putin declared that Russia had registered the worlds first vaccine against the novel coronavirus. Turkey confirmed , new COVID cases on Tuesday, raising the total diagnosed cases to ,, Turkish Health Minister Fahrettin Koca said. Meanwhile,  people died in the past  hours, taking the death toll to ,, while , patients recovered, raising the total recoveries to ,, he noted. Israel reported the rise of , COVID cases on Tuesday, raising the total infections in the state to ,. The virus claimed nine more lives, leading to  the death toll in Israel, while the total number of recoveries surged to , after , more patients recovered. Morocco registered , new COVID cases on Tuesday, raising the tally of infections to ,, including  fatalities and , recoveries. Kuwait reported  new COVID cases and four more deaths, raising the tally of infections to , and the death toll to . Algeria on Tuesday reported  new cases of coronavirus infection, bringing the total infections to , including , deaths. Djamel Fourar, a member of Algerias Scientific Committee monitoring the spread of COVID, said that , medical staff in the country have been infected with the coronavirus,  of whom have died. Palestine registered  new COVID cases, bringing the total confirmed cases to ,, including  deaths and , recoveries. Palestinian Health Minister Mai alKaila held a meeting with Guo Wei, director of the Office of the Peoples Republic of China to Palestine in the West Bank city of Ramallah, over enhancing bilateral cooperation in the health sector, including combating the COVID pandemic. AlKaila expressed gratitude to China for lending a helping hand to Palestine during its tough time in fighting the pandemic, the Palestinian Health Ministry said in a statement. Qatari Health Ministry on Tuesday announced  new COVID infections, raising the total confirmed cases in the Gulf state to ,, including  deaths and , recoveries. The United Arab Emirates UAE confirmed  new COVID cases, bringing the tally of confirmed cases to ,. The UAE Ministry of Health and Prevention said that  more patients recovered from the virus, taking the tally of recoveries to ,, while the death toll rose by one to . Lebanons number of COVID infections increased by  to , while the death toll went up by seven to , the Lebanese Health Ministry said. Lebanese Health Minister Hamad Hassan announced that  teams from the health ministry have been deployed in  districts to follow up on COVID cases. He also underscored the need to equip a field hospital within maximum  days in order to receive more COVID patients. Syria reported  new COVID cases, bringing the overall number of infections in the governmentcontrolled areas to ,, including  deaths and  recoveries. Tunisian Ministry of Health reported  new COVID cases, bringing the total infections in the country to ,, including  deaths and , recoveries. Tunisia requested passengers arriving from France, Belgium and Iceland present a negative PCR test for the coronavirus  hours before the trip, starting Aug . The government also decided to make wearing masks obligatory in major public areas such as airports, railway station, hospitals, private clinics and supermarkets.