US fails to contain COVID pandemic media
2020/8/12 0:00
Editors note The world faces huge challenges during the global spread of COVID, and maybe even greater ones when it is over. Here, in the th part of a series titled One World, One Fight, we look at how countries can work together to fight the virus and meet the challenges when the pandemic ends. China has offered assistance to Brazil as the Latin American country struggles to keep its economy afloat and its population healthy during the coronavirus pandemic. Brazil is taking a massive economic hit from the outbreak, with infections continuing to spread and unprecedented challenges facing indigenous groups living in the Amazon rainforest. With more than  million cases of COVID and over , deaths, the country is the worst affected in the region, and the second mostaffected in the world. Hospitals are on the verge of collapse, with most health resources focused on fighting the pandemic. However, Brazilians remain divided on the measures the countrys federal government should take to curb the outbreak. Laura Olivera, a content producer for China Central Television in Sao Paulo, said Brazil is divided into opposing camps. On the one hand there are people who applaud the policies of President Jair Bolsonaro, following every word he says and supporting him unconditionally. On the other hand there are people in total disagreement with the measures he is taking, with his comments supporting use of the medication hydroxychloroquine, and with measures being relaxed. COVID has had an unprecedented impact on the Brazilian economy, with the government forecasting GDP to fall by . percent this year. According to Reuters, it would be the biggest decline since . Official data show unemployment standing at . percent, but analysts believe the figure could be much higher, as vast numbers of people living in small communities in forest and rural areas might not have been counted. Many people in Brazil had never experienced lockdowns and there was no federal mandate to impose them. However, some state and local governments started enforcing their own lockdown measures in midMarch, when the country reported its first cases of COVID. By March , more than  cases per day were being reported in Brazil, and Sao Paulo, the countrys most populous city, went into lockdown. On the other hand, Rio de Janeiro did not impose lockdowns until May , when the number of new daily cases rose to ,. Cities nationwide began loosening measures in June. Many observers said the lockdowns had not been strict enough and few people observed them. On Aug , Brazil reported , new cases. Pedro Tunes, cofounder of the scientific portal Tunes Ambiental in Belo Horizonte, said Most people are just tired of quarantining and have stopped doing so, despite the number who are dying. Of course, a lot of people have to work, but even in cities where only essential businesses should continue, we see bosses making everyone go to work. Purchases expand Chinas potential to be a key partner for Brazil is rising once again, thanks to demand for agricultural produce such as soybeans and beef. Mauricio Palma Nogueira, an agronomist and director of Athenagro, a consultancy in Sao Paulo, wrote in an opinion piece published by the Brazilian Beef Exporters Association, The expansion of Chinese purchases coincides with the consolidation of Brazil as the main beef exporter in the world. The commercial partnership with China accelerated development of the beef sector. Amid this Chinese demand, Brazil innovates, develops and improves. Together, the two countries are breaking an old paradigmthat the consumption of beef is inaccessible to the poorest and that, in the future, it will also be inaccessible to the middle class, Nogueira wrote. This demand could prevent the Brazilian economy from falling even further, as beef is not the only commodity that China is buying in significant quantitiesits imports of Brazilian soybeans have risen by  percent yearonyear to a record high. Last year, Brazil exported  billion worth of goods and services to China, according to official data, while in the first five months of this year such exports rose by . percent to  billion. China is Brazils largest trading partner. The United States, Brazils secondlargest trading partner, imported goods and services worth . billion from the Latin American nation last year, while the corresponding figure for neighboring Argentina, Brazils thirdlargest trading partner, was  billion. China is also helping Brazil with healthcare. On July , health authorities in Wuhan, capital of Hubei province, where the virus was first identified, held a virtual forum, the ChinaBrazil COVID Pandemic Prevention and Control Online Conference. They discussed prevention and treatment measures with Brazilian colleagues and also firsthand experiences in tackling COVID. The forum was one of a dozen or so videoconferences Chinese officials have organized with their Brazilian counterparts to discuss the disease. To date, some  Chinese provinces and municipalities, along with more than  companies, have donated medical supplies and equipment to Brazil, which could become key to the development of a Chinese vaccine. The biopharmaceutical company Sinovac Biotech, based in Beijingone of the frontrunners in the race to find a vaccine against SARSCoVhas chosen Brazil as one of the countries in which to conduct clinical trials. Jorge Kalil, professor of clinical immunology and allergy at the University of Sao Paulo, who is leading a research team working on a domestic vaccine, said that as the disease is continuing to spread in Brazil, it is an ideal testing site. The country also has a relatively high quality of medicine and a diverse population, which can also help. However, ending the pandemic in Brazil may prove challenging even after a vaccine is developed. COVID has reached the countrys poorest people, including isolated tribes in the Amazon rainforest. Cities in the heart of the jungle, such as Manaus, have seen patients bodies piling up. Ana Luiza Tunes, Pedro Tunes sister and also an environmental engineer and cofounder of Tunes Ambiental, said In Manaus, the public health system collapsed in April and May due to the high number of patients infected with COVID. The capital of Amazonas even buried stacked coffins due to the high number of deaths in April. That month, coffins from the largest public cemetery in Manaus began to be buried in mass graves. Amazonas state has reported more than , cases and , deaths from COVID, while Sao Paulo state has reported , cases and more than , deaths. According to the Articulation of Indigenous Peoples of Brazil,  such people have died from COVID. A total of , cases have been confirmed among  ethnic groups. Ana Luiza Tunes said, Indigenous people from the Amazon and throughout Brazil do not have an immunological memory to resist the simplest flu. These native peoples may disappear if the coronavirus spreads through their villages. Impact played down Since the pandemic emerged in Brazil, the country has had three ministers of health. The incumbent is Eduardo Pazuello, an army general without any prior experience in health. The two previous ministers resigned due to differences with the president over managing the pandemic. William Magnusson, a senior researcher with the biodiversity unit of the National Institute of Amazonian Research in Manaus, said, Almost all healthcare not associated with COVID has been shut down, but the impact of this, independent of COVID infections, cannot be determined because there is not enough effective testing. Hugo Nogueira, an international relations analyst in Belo Horizonte, said Sometimes, we feel as if we are making fools of ourselves by quarantining. We can see traffic returning to normal, as if there have been no changes due to COVID. People are chatting and getting together, going out in the streets without wearing masks, and partying during weekends. Even those who never exercised before are now running on the streets. If everyone is returning to normal lives, we are also tempted to go out and pretend that there is no pandemic. A doctor in the intensive care unit at LagoaBarra field hospital for COVID cases in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, checks a patient. The doctor returned to work on July  after recovering from the disease. RICARDO MORAESREUTERS An Amazonian tribal chief with COVID arrives at a hospital in Goiania, Brazil, on July . UESLEI MARCELINOREUTERS A doctor treats a young patient for the disease on the Brazilian island of Marajo. CHINA DAILY Health workers take a break in Brasilia on Aug  after transferring a patient suspected to have the disease. ERALDO PERESREUTERS