Top  companies changing the world
2021/11/15 6:40
Business magazine Fortune released its latest Change the World list, with  companies honored that based on measurable social impact, business results and degree of innovation. This year, vaccine makers from around the globe took the top spot on the list. Currently, Sinovac Biotechs CoronaVac and Sinopharms BIBPCorV from China along with vaccines from PfizerBioNTech, OxfordAstraZeneca, JanssenJohnson  Johnson and Moderna are included in the World Health Organizationled COVAX, a global initiative aimed at equitable access to COVID vaccine. Moreover, three Chinese companies made the list, including Envision Group at second, Pinduoduo at th and Kuaishou at th. Now, lets see the top  companies from the Change the World ranking. No  ReNew Energy Global, India Fort Worth, Texasbased Takkion, a premier multimodal logistics and transportation provider for energy transition infrastructure, has acquired Sioux Falls, SDbased Renew Energy, Inc, a leading provider of operations and maintenance solutions serving the renewable energy market.  renewenergy.com No  Bank of America, US A Bank of America logo on a building in New York City on Jan , .  No  KCB Group, Kenya An ATM is seen in the banking hall at the Kenya Commercial Bank Kencom branch in Nairobi, Kenya on July , .  No  Paypal Holdings, US The PayPal logo is seen at a hightech park in Beersheba, Israel on Aug , .  No  Daimler, Germany The Daimler logo is seen before the Daimler annual shareholder meeting in Berlin on April , .  No  Viatris, US Representatives attend the unveiling ceremony of the new brand Viatris at the third China International Import Expo.  Daily No  Banco Santander, Brazil A woman wearing a protective mask is pushed in a wheelchair next to a Santander financial agency branch in Madrid on July , .  No  Costco Wholesale, US People wait to shop at a Costco Wholesale store as they look to purchase essentials in Austin, Texas on Feb , .  No  Envision Group, China A worker monitors equipment at Envision AESCs China production engineering center in Wuxi, Jiangsu province in November .  Daily No  The Vaccine Makers, global A health worker prepares a dose of Sinovac vaccine at a vaccination site in Manila, Philippines on March , . 