Offenses in overdrive as NBA piles on the points
2020/8/11 9:50
Fresh dynamic at Disney World credited for soaring scoring Portland Trail Blazers Damian Lillard draws a foul from the Philadelphia ers Norvel Pelle during an NBA game at Lake Buena Vista, Florida, on Sunday. Lillard scored  points as Portland prevailed . AP LAKE BUENA VISTA, FloridaThe last time there was a slate of five or more NBA games on the same day, with every team scoring at least  points, was more than  years ago. That is, until the opening of the leagues socalled bubble amid the coronavirus pandemicwhere it already has happened twice. Scoring numbers are soaring inside the NBAs bubble, where the restarted season is happening at Walt Disney World. Entering Sundays games,  of the  teams inside the bubble were exceeding what had been their scoring averages before the season was suspended on March  because of COVID. Games on average have seen nine points more than what had been the norm this season. The number of pointers in each contestwhich had been on a record clip when the season got suspendedis up as well. And Indianas TJ Warren, not even a top scorer when the pandemic hit, is leading the bubble in points per game so far, averaging . and nearly doubling what was his season average. TJ Warren is on a different planet right now, Pacers guard Victor Oladipo said. Hes not alone. The bubble is working for just about everybody, or so it seems. There was a sixgame NBA schedule on Feb , , and all the teams playing that night scored at least  points. That hadnt happened, on a day of five or more games, again in the NBA until July the second day of bubble games. It happened again on Saturday. Dallas coach Rick Carlisle says there might be multiple reasons why the numbers are up, but foremost on the list is that the NBA has created an environment where players are comfortable. We came from a situation at home where players could only do individual workouts, you know, with a coach with a mask on and rubber gloves, Carlisle said. When you walked in the practice facility, you had to clean your shoes. You had to fill out a form, you had to take your temperature, you had to do a lot of things and that was before serial testing began. So a lot has gone into this. Its paying off. Maybe this should have been expected, even after teams went   months without playing a real game during the suspension. Hostile fans arent screaming at and distracting shooters in the bubble. Nobody is weary from a long flight the night before. And the conditions inside the three different game arenas at Disneyfrom the lighting to the temperatureare relatively close to identical. Obviously, even though we are playing on different courts, they all kind of feel like the same arena, Milwaukees Brook Lopez said. Its not like were going from Milwaukee to Philly, Miami, back to Milwaukee or anything like that. Its pretty consistent in that regard. Only five teamsNew Orleans, Toronto, Washington, Oklahoma City and the Los Angeles Lakersentered Sunday with a lower average in the bubble than they had before coming to Disney. Its a very weird dynamic, Lakers star LeBron James said. I havent played in an empty gym in a very, very long time. Its been a very long time since no one has been watching me play the game. Im just trying to find that rhythm and lock in. Put simply, it is taking a ton of points to win. Entering the bubble, San Antonio were  under coach Gregg Popovich when scoring  points or more the Spurs are  at Disney when scoring that many. Entering Sunday, there had been  games completed in the bubblewith the winning team scoring at least  points in all  of them. I think shooting travels, New Orleans JJ Redick said. If you can make shots, you can make shots. ...Ive shot in highschool gyms, civic centers, arenas, basements of Catholic administrative buildings. If you can make shots, you can make shots. Carlisle has another theory or explanation that cant be argued Wherever they are, bubble or no bubble, pandemic or no pandemic, NBA players in this era can score from practically anywhere. To me, its just the level of aggression of the players, Carlisle said. And the fact that, you know, the skill sets of NBA players are increasing exponentially by the month. I mean, its just getting harder and harder to guard these guys. Theres a high level of enthusiasm. The closeness of the games has been crazy to watch. Its just been a very special time hereeven though its been quite unusual. Associated Press ?