Iraq reports highest daily COVID infections as Turkey announces economic recovery from outbreak
2020/8/11 9:38
A worker wearing a protective suit pushes an oxygen cylinder at the corridor of a quarantine ward at AlHakim Hospital, amid the spread of the coronavirus disease COVID, in the holy city of Najaf, Iraq July , .  CAIRO  Iraq confirmed on Monday , new COVID infections, the highest daily increase since the outbreak of the deadly disease in the country. Meanwhile Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan announced his countrys ongoing economic recovery from the pandemic. Iraq has so far confirmed , coronavirus cases in the country amid a surge in new infections. It also reported  fatalities on Monday, raising the death toll to ,, while , patients recovered in the day, bringing the total number of recoveries to ,. Meanwhile, Iraqi Deputy Health Minister Hazim alJumaili said in a statement that the ministry is following the global production of anticoronavirus vaccines. Iraq will reserve the first vaccine that appears for coronavirus after ensuring its safety, efficiency, and prices, alJumaili told the official Iraqi News Agency. Turkish Health Minister Fahrettin Koca reported , new COVID cases on Monday, raising the total confirmed number in the country to ,. In addition,  people died in the past  hours from the virus, taking the death toll to ,, while , patients recovered in the past  hours, raising the total recoveries to ,. Meanwhile, Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan announced that the countrys economy has been recovering from the COVID outbreak. The improvement we expected in economic indicators started in May, and we see that it got stronger in June and July, Erdogan said. In Iran, the hardest hit country in the Middle East, the overall number of the coronavirus cases has grown to ,, while the pandemic has so far claimed the lives of , Iranians, up by  in the past  hours, according to Sima Sadat Lari, spokeswoman for the Iranian health ministry. She said , of the new coronavirus patients detected in the past  hours in Iran have been hospitalized, while , remain in critical condition. It is worth noting that  Iranian provinces out of  are either in highrisk or alert condition over the COVID pandemic. In Saudi Arabia, , new COVID infections were reported, raising the accumulated cases in the kingdom to ,, amid a slowdown trajectory of daily infections in the past month. The Saudi Ministry of Health reported  more deaths and , new recovered cases, increasing the death toll to , and the total recoveries to ,. The Qatari health ministry on Monday announced  new COVID cases, raising the total number in the Gulf state to ,, official Qatar News Agency reported. The ministry attributed the increase in coronavirus infections to gatherings and visits as well as ignoring the preventive measures such as staying at home and social distancing. Oman reported  new COVID cases on Monday, including  nonOmanis, raising the total number in the country to ,, according to a statement by the Omani health ministry. The recovery rate of coronavirus in Oman is as high as  percent, while the global level is  percent, according to Huda Al Khalili, intensive care consultant for COVID at the Royal Hospital. Israels Ministry of Health reported , new coronavirus cases on Monday, bringing the total infections in the country to ,, while Palestine recorded  new cases, raising the total number in the Palestinian territories to ,, In Kuwait,  new COVID cases and four more deaths were reported on Monday, raising the tally of infections to , and the death toll to . Kuwait started the thirdphase plan of restoring normal life on July . During this phase, labor capacity will increase to no more than  percent and visits to social care homes will be allowed. As the first among the Gulf countries to report COVID cases, the United Arab Emirates UAE on Monday announced  new COVID cases, bringing the total confirmed cases in the country to ,. The UAE health ministry also reported  more recoveries from the virus, taking the tally of recoveries in the UAE to ,. A total of  new COVID cases were confirmed in Morocco on Monday, bringing the total number of coronavirus cases in the North African country to ,. In Lebanon and Jordan, the number of COVID cases on Monday rose by  and  respectively to , and ,. Lebanon is expected to witness a remarkable daily increase in COVID cases in the coming days as thousands have taken to streets in antigovernment protests to demand the overhaul of the political system after the deadly explosions in Beirut. Jordan will enforce a law that makes wearing face masks and gloves obligatory from Aug.  and impose fines on any violator from  dinars  US dollars to  dinars, Minister of State for Media Affairs Amjad Adaileh said at a press conference on Monday.