Economic impact of virus hits British firms
2020/8/11 9:33
End of furlough program likely to trigger an increase in redundancies One in three British businesses is planning job cuts in the third quarter of this year as the economic impact of the novel coronavirus pandemic accelerates and the governments furlough program winds down. ? Traffic and people pass by the front of the Unilever building in central London, Britain, March , .  Research by the Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development, or CIPD, and recruiter Adecco showed a  percent jump in the number of employers expecting to cut jobs compared to three months ago. In the month leading up to July , more than , employers were asked whether they planned to make redundancies. The survey found that in the private sector,  percent of companies plan to make redundancies, compared to  percent in the public sector. It did also find some evidence of increased confidence in hiring workers, as the easing of the lockdown made recruitment less difficult. However, the CIPD said it was unlikely to make up for the wave of redundancies. The furlough program has paid  percent of workers wages up to , pounds  per month, preventing many job losses. However, employers have this month been forced to start contributing toward the wage bill, with the program due to close at the end of October. Gerwyn Davies, the CIPDs senior labor market adviser, said Until now, redundancies have been lowno doubt due to the job retention schemebut we expect to see more redundancies come through this autumn, especially in the private sector, once the scheme closes. It comes as data from the Centre for Retail Research suggests that more than , restaurant jobs have been cut already this year, double the number announced throughout the entire of last year. Britains economy will be officially declared in recession this week for the first time since the  financial crisis, as the novel coronavirus outbreak plunges the country into the deepest slump on record, reported The Guardian newspaper. Figures from the Office for National Statistics on Wednesday are expected to show that gross domestic product, or GDP, fell in the three months to June by  percent. Economists consider two consecutive quarters of shrinking GDP as the technical definition of a recession. The slump in Britain is expected to be the biggest quarterly drop of any G economy due to the later launch of lockdown controls and the slower removal of harsh restrictions. The National Institute of Economic and Social Research estimates that GDP will not return to the level recorded at the end of  until the second half of . The Institutes deputy director, Garry Young, said it could take Britain longer to regain its prepandemic growth trajectory than hoped. A rapid Vshaped recovery is a possible outcome still, but all the risks seem to be to the downside. If we get another wave of the virus and have to do more widespread lockdowns, thats going to knock the economy off that V path, Young said. In Europes largest economy the battle to recover from the pandemicinduced downturn is similar. German companies expect public life to be restricted for a further . months due to the novel coronavirus, a survey by the Ifo economic institute showed on Monday. Hardhit companies in Germanys leisure industry expect  more months of restrictions, while those in the arts, cultural and gastronomy sector expect another  months. The beverage sector is the most optimistic, foreseeing an end to restrictions in . months. It comes as Germanys economy minister warned of an alarming rise in infections. We need to flatten the curve and turn this around, Peter Altmaier told local media. His comments come as children in Berlin return to school for the first time in months. Concerns over the growing number of infections in France prompted officials to make face masks compulsory outdoors in busy parts of Paris from Monday. The order applies to people aged  and over in certain very crowded zones. Meanwhile, the United Kingdoms official COVID daily death count could be scrapped following an investigation into Public Health Englands method of counting the toll, The Daily Telegraph newspaper reported. The conclusions of the investigation, which was ordered by Health Secretary Matt Hancock after it emerged officials were exaggerating virus deaths, are expected this week, the newspaper said. One recommendation could be to move to a weekly official death toll instead, a government source said. Britain paused its daily update of the death toll last month and the government ordered a review, after academics said the daily figures may include people who died from other causes.