Fighting COVID on the ground
2020/8/11 7:40
Medical workers in Beijing leave for Wuhan, Hubei province, on Jan  to fight against the pandemic.?NIU HONGCHAOFOR CHINA DAILY Li Haichao, vicepresident of Peking University First Hospital, and his team have kept their habit of meeting daily at  pm since returning from Wuhan, Hubei province, in April. However, these days, instead of discussing COVID treatments, they hold online singing parties through video chats. Li, , led a member team from the Beijing hospital that was dispatched in three groups to help patients at Tongji Hospitals Zhongfa Xincheng branch in Wuhan at the height of the outbreak in February. When the team left Wuhan on April ,  of their  COVID patients had been discharged. Our job of helping the patients recover was only a part of the whole medicaltreatment system, Li tells China Daily, adding that the teamwork was not just among the medical workers but also residents of the city, such as bus drivers and hotel staff. Li and his team arrived in Wuhan on Feb , and there was only one day left for them to prepare to take over the west zone of the ninth floor of Building B in Tongji Hospital, which was originally designated for tumor patients. Turning regular wards into special ones, setting the course for patients and medical staff, training all members on prevention and control of infection and arranging protective equipmentall these tasks had to be done within  hours. On the night of Feb ,  patients were transferred to the wards. Two days later, all  beds were filled. The seriousness of the COVID patients and the limitation of medical resources were the next challenges Li and his team faced. Ventilators were significant in treating serious cases but there were only three for medical treatment and five home ventilators. Sometimes Li and his team had to borrow ventilators from other departments of the hospital or other hospitals in the city. We used oxygen carriers to fill the gap, and our rule was to maximize the use of resources to treat patients, Li says. There was limited protective equipment. At first, they could only be assured of access to such protective equipment as facemasks and suits the night before theyd be used. Peking University First Hospitals team returns to Beijing after completing its mission in Wuhan on April .? Maximizing resources Li took part in the fight against the SARS outbreak in China  years ago. He says COVID has some similarities and differences with SARS. The duration of the severe illness was long and there were many details that we needed to pay attention to. So we were vigilant all day, Li says. Some COVID patients conditions suddenly got serious after seven or  days without any early symptoms, so the team enhanced monitoring of patients. For some patients who get hypoxemia, they may not feel it and can still do some physical activities or take phone calls, but their oxygen levels drop sharply, which is very dangerous and needs special monitoring, he says. One morning on the way from his hotel to the hospital, Li almost cried when hearing the message that one of his patients oxygen saturation had returned to over  percentit was a good sign, though it only lasted for a moment. In a Chinese journal, Li writes We tried our best and kept an eye on all health parameters to avoid drops in the oxygen levels because of any shorttime mask removal from the patient. The patients will power made us believe that she would make it through. Among the  doctors in the team, seven were respiratory experts, three worked in critical care and the others specialized in cardiology, gastroenterology, endocrinology, hematology, nephrology, and rheumatology and infectious diseases. Li arranged the shifts for the doctors. It is not a simple treatment of pneumonia, as the virus infects many systems in the body. Sometimes the therapeutic schedule might be a doubleedged sword. For example, the measures to control the pneumonia might damage the immune system, and there is also potential infection, Li explains. We needed to discuss with doctors from different hospitals to give patients an effective treatment. Li gave two endocrinology experts in his team a special task. When they were on duty, they needed to check all patients whose blood glucose levels were abnormal and based treatments on whether or not to use insulin and what dose. Li also gave two doctors whose hometown is Wuhan an extra taskthey took turns talking to patients in the local dialect every day. Our nurses were so nice to the patients that they always smiled. That gave the patients comfort. Lis colleagues in Beijing assisted the team remotely. There was one patient who got rashes. Lis team took photos and asked dermatologists in Beijing for advice. Besides the day shift, Li had two other daily routinesjoining discussions about treatments for difficult and complicated diseases with colleagues from Peking Universitys two other hospitals at  pm and meeting with medical groups, care groups and logistical groups at  pm. A consultation center was built in Tongji Hospital, where doctors gathered every day to discuss seriously ill patients cases. Li Haichao leads the hospitals team in Wuhan.?Photo provided to China Daily Joint efforts Because it was a new disease, nearly every discussion brought a collision of ideas, and new problems tested our experience and knowledge, and challenged our wisdom, Li says. Doctors of all specializations, and even nurses, joined the discussions, which helped us improve our knowledge and treatments. Li says the doctors also read the latest papers about the virus from around the world and constantly exchanged updates. Sun Lu, one of the two administrative staffers in the team, says Li was like a head butler. When a new patient was transferred to our ward, Li would lead the team to develop a treatment plan, Sun says. He designed a system called long day shifteach doctor was doing three consecutive day shifts so that the treatment for each patient was sequential. Sun says Li was also in charge of deciding when a patient could be discharged, which was tricky because they needed to make sure the patient had fully recovered and ensure they didnt stay in the hospital for too long. Li also cared about medical workers mental health. When the work was not that intense in late March, he arranged some small activities for medical workers and hotel staff to relax a bit, such as making dumplings together, Sun recalls. Li has been a doctor for  years. To be a medical expert, one has to also be a collaborator, communicator, professional, leader, health advocate and scholar, he says. Now, we view the pandemic as suffering and hardship. But if we analyze and research the outbreak, our healthcare system will improve, Li says. Scientific literacy, the spirit of professionalism, doctorpatient relationships, and life and death in extreme situations are important components of medical education. This experience of fighting COVID has led me to engage these more deeply. Contact the writer at liyingxuechinadaily.com.cn