Owners must act responsibly and care for their pets
2020/8/11 0:00
WASHINGTONCOVID cases in the United States passed a grim new milestone of  million on Sunday with new infections soaring, further casting doubt on Washingtons response to the ravaging pandemic. The country has been hammered by the pandemic, recording nearly , deathsby far the highest of any country. Brazil on Saturday became the second country to pass , deaths. The global death toll is at least ,, according to a running tally from the Johns Hopkins University. In response to the US death toll, its politicized resistance to masks and its rising caseload, European nations have barred US tourists and visitors from other countries with growing cases from freely traveling to the bloc. Nearly  million cases have been registered worldwideprobably reflecting only a fraction of the actual number of infections, according to health experts. COVID has now become the leading cause of death in the US, killing more people per day than cancer or heart disease, according to a graph published in Newsweek on April . The disaster has killed more US citizens than the combined US casualties from the countrys wars in the Korean Peninsula, Vietnam, Afghanistan and Iraq. In order to downplay the scope and danger of the pandemic, US President Donald Trump has repeatedly claimed that the US has one of the lowest COVID mortality rates in the world. However, the reality is that the US has a mortality rate per , higher than those of many other countries, including Canada, Germany, France and the Netherlands, according to a recent article published by The Hill. But Trump is not focused on those numbers and he has been fixated on a figure called the case fatality rate the percentage of people who die after contracting COVID in order to confuse people and cover up the extremely high rate of deaths as a proportion of the population, according to the article. Meanwhile, as cases surge across the country, Republicans and Democrats increasingly view the disease in starkly different ways, according to a report published on June  by the Pew Research Center. Democrats and Democraticleaning independents are about twice as likely as Republicans and Republican leaners to say that masks should be worn always. But Republicans are much more likely than Democrats to say that masks should rarely or never be worn, according to the report. The wide split between different political factions has not only prevented US citizens from acting in accordance with the preventive guidelines, but also hindered the country from forming a comprehensive antipandemic plan. Expertise denigrated Witnessing the governments inability and bigotry in tackling the coronavirus crisis, more than , US scientists have signed an open letter, accusing the Trump administration of denigrating scientific expertise. They also warned that the dismissal of scientific evidence in policy formulation has affected wide areas of the social, biological, environmental and physical sciences. Separately, Francis Fukuyama, a famed political scientist, wrote in a recent article titled The Wages of American Political Decay In a perfect world, this unprecedented pandemic would have been an occasion for Americans to put aside their differences and rally around the flag...But overall, the pandemic has served to deepen polarization, and that is likely to get worse as time goes on. Elsewhere, Indias COVID case tally rose to ,, and the number of deaths surged to ,, data issued by the federal health ministry said on Monday. Monday marked the th consecutive day that a singleday spike of more than , fresh cases was recorded in India, and the fourth straight day that over , fresh cases were recorded in a single day. Xinhua  Agencies