Sciencedefying US report impedes effort to fight COVID
2021/9/1 8:44
A woman arrives by ambulance to Wyckoff Hospital in the Bushwick section of Brooklyn April ,  in New York. Photo  Agencies A US report on the origins of COVID that took  days to compile and was published on Friday is a ridiculous joke, because the job of science was done by intelligence agencies rather than the scientific community, defying the essence of science. As the old Chinese saying goes, one cannot climb a tree to catch fish. It is the job of scientists to find the origins of the novel coronavirus, relying on solid evidence and scientific logic, and the process could take many years. Asking the intelligence agency to trace the origins of COVID in  days is like climbing a tree to catch fish. It is not surprising that the longawaited report failed to deliver a clear conclusion that might help fight the pandemic, both in the United States and globally. Evidence is emerging that the COVID outbreak is likely to have originated in multiple places around the world. A study conducted by the Italian National Cancer Institute in Milan showed that some people in Italy had been infected with SARSCoV, the virus that causes COVID, as early as September . Human sewage samples collected on Nov. ,  in Florianopolis, the capital of the Brazilian state of Santa Catarina, contained traces of COVID. A number of people, mainly from the United States, have gone on social media to recount their experiences of COVID infections in late . An article published by the journal Nature in early August reported that researchers of the US Department of Agriculture have analyzed serum samples collected from whitetailed deer in northeastern United States, and found that of those samples collected in , one was detected as carrying the virusrelated antibody, indicating that it was infected with SARSCoV in . However, the US government has turned a blind eye to all that evidence, urged its intelligence community to provide a politically motivated report and wasted  days on blameshifting. The country has been split over issues such as COVID vaccination and wearing masks. The number of COVID pandemic related hospitalizations in the United States reached more than , last week for the second time amid waves of the highly contagious Delta variant. The sciencedefying report, which shows no intention of facing up to the United States own problems, will undermine that countrys efforts to curb the pandemic. What is even worse is that the US governments attempts at politicization have disrupted the global response to the COVID pandemic, and wasted public resources that could otherwise have been used for pandemic prevention. More than  countries have written to the WHO directorgeneral, issued statements or sent diplomatic notes to voice their objection to the United States attempts at politicization. Now its time for the US government to return to the correct track of origins tracing based on science. It doesnt have another  days to waste.