The world in photos Aug  C
2020/8/10 11:28
Here are some of the most striking images taken from around the world over the past week. A woman ties rakhi, a sacred thread, on the wrist of a male medical worker, on the occasion of Raksha Bandhan, in the outskirts of Agartala, Indias northeastern state of Tripura, on Aug , . Raksha Bandhan, meaning the bond of protection, is a festival to celebrate the relationship between brothers, cousins and sisters.  Customers dine in an outdoor area of a restaurant in London on Aug , . The British government launched a discount scheme on Aug  to boost the hospitality sector which has been hit hard by coronavirus. The Eat Out to Help Out Scheme offers customers a  percent discount when they eat in at registered restaurants every Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday between Aug  and .  The new Genoa bridge is illuminated in the colors of the Italian flag during its official inauguration, after it was rebuilt following its collapse on Aug , , which killed  people, in Genoa, Italy, on Aug , .  A nurse takes care of three babies in a damaged hospital after the explosion in Beirut, Lebanon, on Aug , .  A child wearing a face mask is seen in a parade to mark the Gaijatra festival, or festival of cows, in Kathmandu, Nepal, on Aug , .  The reflection of an Afghan bride in a mirror is seen during a collective wedding party in MazariSharif in Afghanistan on Aug , . At a rare social event,  couples held a collective wedding party in a local hotel in MazariSharif city on Thursday. The aim of collective marriage is to avoid splendid wedding parties to save money for married families to run their daily life after marriage.  A view of the Port of Beirut is seen after explosions in Beirut, Lebanon, on Aug , . Two huge explosions rocked Port of Beirut on Tuesday at around  pm local time  GMT, leaving at least  people dead and , others injured.  A visitor takes pictures during an orchid exhibition in Bangkok, Thailand, on Aug , . The exhibition runs from Aug  to Aug  to celebrate the birthday of Thailands Queen Mother Sirikit.  A woman walks with a protective face mask, as COVID continues to spread, past a mural in the Harlem neighborhood New York City, on Aug , .  A man and his daughter look at candles during a candlelit memorial event to mourn the victims of the  atomic bombing at Peace Park in Nagasaki, western Japan, on Aug , , on the eve of the th anniversary of the bombing of Nagasaki. 