HK govt welcomes call for unity to fight virus, revive economy
2020/8/10 11:02
A few people wearing facial masks walk past stores on a business street in?in Causeway Bay, Hong Kong, on Aug , .  HONG KONG  The Hong Kong Special Administrative Region HKSAR government has welcomed a joint statement signed by the prodevelopment camp on appealing to the community to work together to engineer changes in Hong Kong for a better tomorrow. In a statement released early Monday morning, a government spokesman stressed that at a time when Hong Kong was facing the great challenges brought about by the social unrest and COVID which had plagued Hong Kong in the past year, all people in Hong Kong should discard their differences and work together with one heart to fight against the virus and to help Hong Kong tide over the difficulties so that the city can start afresh for a new future. The spokesman said the COVID epidemic in Hong Kong remained severe. The government had been putting in place the most stringent measures to tackle the epidemic since January. It once again expressed its gratitude to the care and support rendered to HKSAR by the central government. The government spokesman also said that Hong Kong was facing an increasing threat to national security. At the same time, external elements have intensified their interference in Hong Kongs internal affairs. The National Security Law was enacted for ensuring the resolute, full and faithful implementation of the principles of one country, two systems, Hong Kong people administering Hong Kong and a high degree of autonomy. Martin Liao Cheungkong nd from right, convener of proestablishment?LegCo members, attends a joint statement press conference in Hong Kong, Aug , .  An alliance jointly established by  Hong Kong political groups, social organizations and business chambers on Sunday appealed to the whole society to set aside differences and make concerted efforts to fight COVID and support the HKSAR government in leading Hong Kong out of difficulties. Martin Liao Cheungkong, convener of proestablishment?Legislative Council LegCo members, put forward four points of consensus and hope in a joint statement on behalf of the alliance, which are giving top priority to antiepidemic fight, reviving economy and helping people in need, pushing for reforms, and putting aside disputes. Given the increasing public health risks and a worsening economy, the alliance supports the decision of the HKSAR government to postpone the LegCo election and will help focus on antidisease work in a bid to overcome the difficult time along with Hong Kong residents, the alliance said in the statement. Starry Lee Waiking, chairwoman of the Democratic Alliance for the Betterment and Progress of Hong Kong, said the most urgent task for the HKSAR government was to rein in the epidemic and create a stable environment for Hong Kong to recover from the double blows from the social unrest last year and COVID. Stanley Ng Chaupei, president of the Hong Kong Federation of Trade Unions, said that it has been a consensus of the whole society and the common voice of Hong Kong residents to control the coronavirus spread and push the economy back on track. Members of the alliance include Hong Kong Community AntiCoronavirus Link, Hong Kong Federation of Education Workers, Hong Kong United Youth Association, and Hong Kong General Chamber of Commerce, among others. With inputs from Xinhua