Brazils day of sorrow as milestone is reached
2020/8/10 9:05
A health worker administers a COVID test to a man as others outside wait for their results in Mumbai, India, on Saturday.?FRANCIS MASCARENHASREUTERS RIO DE JANEIROBrazil became the second country in the world to pass the grim milestone of , coronavirus deaths on Saturday as the countrys government announced four days of mourning to pay tribute to the countrys millionplus virus victims. With , fatalities and ,, confirmed cases, the country of  million people is the second hardesthit country by the pandemic, after the United States. Saturday was marked by manifestations of solidarity with the victims families and netizens. Many Twitter users marked their messages with the hashtag thousanddeaths. Infections have accelerated in recent weeks in the countryside as well as inland regions and areas where the virus was late arriving, particularly the countrys south and centerwest. In southeastern states such as Sao Paulo and Rio de Janeiro, hardesthit by the virus in absolute numbers, the situation has stabilized, while the virus presence has declined in northern regions after reaching catastrophic levels in April and May. The countrys indigenous Amazon populations have also been hard hit, with one of Brazils leading chiefs, yearold Aritana Yawalapiti, dying on Wednesday of respiratory complications caused by COVID. The COVID toll continues to rise across the world, with global fatalities having now surpassed ,. More than , of those were in the US, which was on the verge of recording  million cases, according to the Johns Hopkins Universitys Coronavirus Resource Center. A woman jogs behind crosses and balloons placed in tribute to the , COVID deaths in Brazil, at Copacabana Beach, Rio de Janeiro, on Saturday.?RICARDO MORAESREUTERS India has more than two million infectionsits caseload having doubled in three weeksand had recorded , deaths as of Sunday. It now has the worlds thirdhighest pandemic caseload. Indias infection rate has increased exponentially in recent weeks. It took almost six months for the country to record  million cases, another  days to reach . million, and only another nine days to reach  million. Across the country, critically ill virus patients have been turned away from public and private hospitals for lack of beds, staff and equipment. Earlier this month, a state minister died of the virus and three Indian cabinet ministers checked into hospital after testing positive. The virus has also hit celebrities, including Bollywood star Amitabh Bachchan, one of Indias most famous actors. The yearold announced on Sunday that he has been discharged from hospital after a threeweek stay. A fire killed  coronavirus patients early on Sunday in a southern Indian hotel being used as a COVID facility, officials said, in the second such incident this month. In South Africa, more than , people have died from COVID, the health ministry said on Saturday, as football resumed following a day coronavirusinduced shutdown. In Paris, growing infections in and around have prompted officials to make face masks compulsory outdoors in crowded areas and tourist hot spots in the city and surrounding areas from Monday. The mask will be obligatory for all those aged  and over in certain very crowded zones, said a police statement, including the banks of the Seine River and more than  streets in the French capital. Xinhua