Iranian president predicts  more months of COVID outbreak in Iran
2020/8/10 9:03
A shopkeeper wearing a protective face mask watches his goods at his shop, following the outbreak of the coronavirus disease COVID, in Tehran, Iran, July , .  CAIRO  Iranian president warned on Sunday that the COVID pandemic will last at least six more months in the country. Meanwhile, Iraqi deputy minister of health said that Iraq has yet to reach the coronavirus peak. Iran, the hardesthit country in the Middle East region, reported , new cases, bringing the total number of infections to ,. The pandemic has so far claimed the lives of , in Iran, up by  in the past  hours. A total of , coronavirus patients have recovered, while , are in critical condition. Until we obtain a vaccine that is effective and get a sufficient quantity of it ... we will be confronting this situation, said Iranian President Hassan Rouhani. In the mean time, Iraqi Deputy Minister of Health Hazim alJumaili warned that Iraq has not yet reached the peak of infections, while the daily coronavirus infections are still registering large numbers. In Iraq, the tally of coronavirus infections rose to , after , new cases were reported. The country also reported  more deaths and , recovered cases, raising the death toll from the infectious virus to , and the total recoveries to ,. Saudi Arabias total cases rose by , to , and the death toll increased by  cases to ,. The kingdom also reported , more recovered patients, taking the total recoveries to ,. In Turkey, the total number of COVID cases climbed to , after , new infections were reported, Turkish Health Minister Fahrettin Koca tweeted. The death toll from the virus in the country rose to , after  new fatalities were added in the past  hours, Koca said, adding , more patients recovered, raising the total recoveries to ,. In Qatar,  new cases of coronavirus infections were detected, increasing the total number to ,, including  deaths and , recoveries. Israel reported  new COVID cases, bringing the tally of coronavirus infections to ,. The death toll of the virus in Israel increased to  while the recoveries rose to ,. Omans Ministry of Health announced  new infections, raising the total number of COVID cases in the country to ,, including  deaths and , recoveries. In Kuwait, the tally of infections rose to , after  new cases were reported, of whom  have died and , recovered. The United Arab Emirates UAE announced  new COVID cases and one more death, taking the total infections to , and the death toll to . The total number of recoveries from the virus in the UAE increased to , after  more fully recovered. In Morocco, the tally of COVID cases increased to , after , daily new cases were added, which included  fatalities and , recoveries. The Moroccan government extended the state of medical emergency for another month until Sept.  amid the recent surge of cases. Palestine reported  new COVID cases, raising the tally of infections in the Palestinian territories to ,, including , recoveries and  deaths. In Lebanon, the number of COVID infections increased by  to ,, while the death toll remained . The total number of coronavirus cases in Yemens governmentcontrolled provinces increased to , after seven new cases were added. The number of recoveries in the governmentcontrolled areas, including the southern port city of Aden, increased to  and the death toll climbed to . Jordan recorded six news cases of coronavirus, increasing the total number of infections since the outbreak of the pandemic to ,.