Research on link of COVID, cold chain urged
2021/9/1 6:54
Disease control and prevention workers collect samples from frozen products in Tianjins Nankai district on Nov , .  Daily Chinese researchers are calling for global cooperation to improve understanding of the spread of SARSCoV via cold chains as part of efforts to trace the origins of the virus. The first phase of WHOorganized studies into the origins of the virus that causes COVID wrapped up in China in February and identified the coldchain theory as a possible explanation for its spread across populations. The coldchain industry inherently spans the globe. As we are seeing a large amount of sciencebased evidence pointing to the virus spread via cold chains, we suggest the next phase of origintracing work involve concerted coldchain studies under a global framework, Liu Jun, a professor at the National Institute for Viral Disease Control and Prevention of the Chinese Center for Disease Control and Prevention, said on Friday. He said Chinese scientists will continue to focus on coldchain products that arrived in Wuhan, Hubei province, in the four months before the virus emerged in the city in late . Samples will be taken and tested from cold storage. A mechanism to track international movements of coldchain products is vitally important to the studies, he said. For instance, when a country reports positive results in the screening of coldchain products or packaging, or detects the possible spread of the virus from contaminated coldchain imports to human beings, the mechanism can come into play and facilitate research into the epidemic situation in regions exporting these products or the virus potential transmission during crossborder transportation, he said. Liu said the system will not only bolster origintracing efforts, but also offer important clues on how to optimize strategies to stem the virus recent rampage fueled by new variants. He also proposed joint laboratory research to simulate and evaluate the virus ability to survive and infect people when latching onto coldchain shipments. There is a substantial body of scientific evidence, ranging from epidemiological information to genomic makeup, that demonstrates the virus can travel over long distances and remain infectious, experts said. Ma Huilai, deputy head of the China CDCs center of postgraduate education and training, said that after the initial domestic wave of the epidemic that hit Hubei was brought under control, outbreaks in Beijing and Liaoning and Shandong provinces were found to be linked to coldchain markets or seafood processing plants. When investigating a cluster of COVID infections in Qingdao, Shandong, in October, live virus was identified on the outer packaging of coldchain products that had been handled by two infected port workers, the first time such a discovery had been made in the world, Ma said. Two infected coldchain workers were also found to have engaged in highrisk behavior, such as taking off their masks to smoke while at work. Genome sequencing of the viral strain that infected them found it was almost identical to a strain detected on frozen products. The chain of evidence is nearly complete in this instance, giving robust support to the hypothesis that the novel coronavirus can be carried by coldchain products or packaging over long distances and trigger new local outbreaks, she said. Xu Wenbo, head of the China CDCs National Institute for Viral Disease Control and Prevention, said only proactive monitoring across the coldchain industry will enable researchers to ferret out traces of the virus on coldchain products. This could explain why only a few countries, including China, have reported strong evidence of this aspect of the virus transmission, Xu said. If a country or a region is experiencing severe COVID outbreaks, it is impossible for local scientists to track down the virus possible covert transmission in the coldchain sector, he added. In China, domestic transmission of the virus was blocked and local infections were cleared by April last year, creating a favorable environment for China to later track sources of new outbreaks and identify patient zero of a new infection cluster. It is true that virus spreading via a cold chain is a rare event, but once it occurs, the incident can lead to large outbreaks, Xu said. Liu, from the national institute for viral disease control, said that the number of coldchain products imported to China that tested positive for viral contamination was not high, considering the huge volume of such imports. However, he said If one person is infected with SARSCoV through the cold chain, this case may cause community infection via humantohuman transmission, resulting in a wider epidemic. Xu said hunting down the origin of the virus will be extremely difficult. However, the enormous volume of global trade should pressure the international community to establish a cooperation mechanism. He also said sampling and testing procedures for the coldchain industry should be carefully defined. There are a variety of coldchain products. Questions like which batch of products will be sampled and how to test them against the virus should be discussed and defined based on scientific principles, he said.