Some of my best friends during the pandemic are real animals
2020/8/10 6:40
Chinas capital market, which has witnessed increasing competitiveness across the globe, claimed fifth place in the rankings for , rising from the eighth spot from a year earlier, according to a report released on Jan  by Shanghai Advanced Institute of Finance and the Capital Market Institute of Shanghai Stock Exchange. The report analyzed a country or regions capital market by four dimensions system environment, market size, function and quality. The United States took the lead to be the worlds most competitive capital market, followed by the United Kingdom, Japan and Canada. For the Chinese capital market, the stock market value, stock trading volume, bond balance, GDP growth rate and total GDP volume all score high on the list, while the IPO financing and number of IPOs still featured some risks of instability, which affected Chinas ranking comprehensively. Liu Ti, the vice general manager of the Shanghai Stock Exchange, noted that the gaps between China and other developed nations will gradually get narrower as the country steps up indepth reform of the financial market. With a large number of enterprises making initial offerings in STAR Market, the competitiveness of Chinas capital market will be further enhanced, he said during a conference in th Lujiazui Forum, on Jan . Lets see the top  countries or regions by capital market competitiveness in the world. No  The United States The exterior of the New York Stock Exchange in New York, the United States, on May , .  No  The United Kingdom A view of buildings in the city of London, London, Britain on Feb , .  No  Japan People wearing face masks walk in a street in Ueno, Tokyo, Japan, on May , .  No  Canada A woman walks a dog by fencedoff cherry blossoms at Trinity Bellwoods Park in Toronto, Canada, on May , .  No  China A view of the Lujiazui area in Shanghai, East China.  No  Australia A young woman performs guitar near the Sydney Opera House in Sydney, Australia, on May , .  No  Hong Kong, China Guests attend a ceremony of Alibabas debut on the main board of Hong Kong stock exchange in Hong Kong, South China on Nov , .  No  South Korea Tourists take selfies at a park in Seoul, South Korea, on March , .  No  France The Eiffel Tower is seen in Paris, France, on June , .  No  Germany Vehicles are seen at a car dealership of Volkswagen in Berlin, capital of Germany, on May , . 