Power bigger than barks and bites
2020/8/10 0:00
Colleges and universities across the United States are pushing out a variety of plans to reopen this fall amid the novel coronavirus pandemic. US campuses sent their students home beginning midMarch and turned to online teaching once COVID reached the country. For the fall semester, schools such as Harvard University, the University of California, Berkeley, and the University of California, Los Angeles announced they would offer only online courses, although Harvard plans to let about  percent of undergraduate students live on campus if they lack an alternative residence. Many schools, including Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Columbia University and Stanford Universitysaid they would offer a mix of both remote and inperson teaching. Masks in group situations To ensure a safe environment, universities are taking various measures, but most are requiring wearing face masks in group situations. Schools offering inperson education wont be operating at full capacity to ensure social distancing. The University of Texas at Austin has limited inperson classrooms to  percent of capacity. The rest of the students will be taught online. UT Austins reopening plan, called Protect Texas Together, requires oncampus students to selfquarantine for  days before going to classrooms and includes a phone app that offers information on coronavirus tests and related health information. In addition, daily screening for COVID symptoms will be conducted. The plan also lists possible reasons for a campus shutdown action by the governor or other public officials, sharply reduced hospital capacity, a testing shortage on campus, unmanageable spread of the virus or the death of a student from COVID. While a students death from the disease could trigger a school closure, it seems that a staff or faculty members death would not. In early July, an UT Austin custodial service worker died from the virus, the first COVID death on campus. Chris Marsicano, a professor at North Carolinas Davidson College, is studying institutional responses to the pandemic. He said he hasnt heard of a similar phased approach to shutting down by any other university. Marsicano called the shutdown list a brilliant strategic move because he said it creates an accountability mechanism that can potentially ward off campus closure. Some schools are taking measures to offer inperson teaching. Houstons Rice University is building nine temporary sheltersfour temporary structures and five opensided tentsto allow for social distancing. More open spaces These more open spaces will accommodate larger classes, up to , and events, up to , for now with proper social distancing, David Leebron, president of Rice University, said. Rice also arranged for students from China who cant get to Texas to take courses and live on campus at Shenzhens Southern University of Science and Technology. We look forward to welcoming them at a later date, said Leebron. Keeping everyone safe has required massive planning reducing the number of people on campus, reconfiguring classrooms, arranging for frequent testing based on risk and implementing contact tracing, said Leebron. He estimated that the total cost of all such measures is expected to exceed  million. Students and faculty coming to the campus will have to sign pledges regarding their behavior, and, in particular, wearing masks and keeping physically distanced, to reduce the spread of the disease, Leebron said. He said that  percent of the student population will be in Houston for the coming fall semester and that about  percent of that total will live on campus. Despite measures Rice is taking to ensure a safe environment, some question the wisdom of inperson learning during a pandemic. Moshe Vardi, a Rice professor, opposes it. In an open letter to the schools online newspaper, he argued that Houston is simply not safe right now and that he doubts students will follow the guidelines. Collegeage students are young and full of life. While most will act responsibly, many will not reliably practice social distancing. There will be parties, off campus if not allowed on campus, and some students will get drunk, he wrote. Students will get infected with COVID these students will infect others, including some of our over , academic and nonacademic staff members who go home to their families and who interact with their communities every day, Vardi argued. Another Rice professor, Helena Michie, also wrote an open letter questioning the benefit of inperson teaching with social distancing while risking coronavirus infections. She wrote that humanities classes depend on discussion among students and that will be gone as students sit six feet from each other while masked. mayzhouchinadailyusa.com ?