Quarantine dreams or too much time on ones hands?
2020/8/9 19:43
A member of medical staff swabs the mouth of a resident as she is testing him for a virus in Alexandra, South Africa, on March , .  The number of?COVID cases in?Africa?has risen to over one million with the Africa Center for Disease Control and Prevention indicating that ,, cases had been confirmed by Sunday with , deaths and , recoveries. The continents worsthit nation is South Africa which has so far registered?, infections and is the fifthhighest nation globally after the US, Brazil, India and Russia. Egypt?has recorded , COVID?cases while the figure in?Nigeria?is ,. Africa crossed the important threshold of  million coronavirus cases on the continent. As more cases are detected beyond major cities, WHOAfrica is supporting countries to decentralize testing, tracing, isolation and treatment, Matshidiso Moeti, WHO regional director for Africa, said on Friday. According to the figures from the Africa CDC,  countries account for  percent of all reported COVID cases in the African region. These are South Africa, Egypt, Nigeria, Ghana, Algeria, Kenya, Ethiopia, Cameroon, Ivory Coast and Madagascar with South Africa accounting for more than half of the continents confirmed cases. Moeti said the cases are a small fraction of the global count but low testing in many African countries means infections have been underreported. She added that while testing facilities have increased in some countries compared to when the outbreak began in February, Africa still fell behind the global benchmark. In total, African nations have so far conducted . million tests since the pandemic began. However, this is well below the Africa CDCs goal of  million tests per month. We have conducted about . million tests and Africa CDC has been instrumental in distributing more than  million of these tests. However, this is not enough, we should be carrying out about  million tests which will represent just  percent of the continent of . billion people, John Nkengasong, the director of Africa CDC, said in a statement on Friday. As the pandemic continues to gain momentum in Africa, we must increase compliance to the public health and social measures so we can protect ourselves and protect our economy. We must increase mass wearing of masks as we expand testing and treatment services, he added. In addition to the rapid spread of the virus in the African continent, the Africa CDC said eight African countries have reported higher coronavirus fatality rates compared to the global average, namely Chad, Sudan, Niger, Liberia, Egypt, Mali, Burkina Faso and Angola. On Friday, the first members of a surge team of health experts from the World WHO arrived in Johannesburg, South Africa, to bolster the countrys response to COVID. As the impact of the virus intensifies in a number of hotspots in Africa, so too are WHOs efforts. At the request of the South African government, our experts will be embedded with the national response teams, working closely with local public health officials to address some of the urgent challenges the country is currently facing, Moeti said.