Hubei announces measures to boost tourism
2020/8/7 16:19
Tourists take photos in front of the Yellow Crane Tower, or Huanghelou, a landmark area in Wuhan, Hubei province. Photo provided to chinadaily.com.cn Hubei province will offer access to nearly  Alevel tourist attractions across the province through the end of the year, local authorities said at a news conference on Friday. To revive the tourism industry that has been marred by the COVID epidemic, as well as in return for the nationwide support for the province amid the epidemic, we decided to promote a free ticket policy to all tourists across the country, said provincial deputy governor Zhang Wenbing at the conference. As attractions in the province are gradually reopening, we have received groups of tourists from  provinces,?municipalities?and?autonomous regions, giving us great confidence in a rapid revitalization. To safeguard public health, tourist sites should require reservations and limit visitors to no more than  percent of their daily capacity. Tourists are required to show their health QR codes, wear masks and have their temperatures checked before entering. Golden monkeys climb a tree in Shennongjia National Park in Hubei province. Photo provided to chinadaily.com.cn Workers in cultural and tourism enterprises will take nucleic acid tests every  days, said Liu Dongru, deputy head of the provincial health commission. Green QR codes on their mobile phones signifying good health and wearing face masks remain mandatory. The provincial cultural and tourism department has issued a card to all outside medical workers supporting the province amid the epidemic, according to Lei Wenjie, head of the department. The card provides limitless free visits to all Alevel tourist sites in the province. Furthermore, we have invited  medical workers from  provinces, municipalities and autonomous regions to return Hubei for travel, Lei said. We have meticulously prepared tourists routes and trip scheduling, hoping to provide them a unique experience in Hubei. The?Three?Gorges?scenic spot in?Yichang, Hubei province. Photo provided to chinadaily.com.cn