Sri Lankas ruling party wins parliamentary polls
2020/8/7 15:03
? Leader of Sri Lanka Podujana Peramuna and Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa wearing a protective mask arrives to cast his vote at a polling station during the countrys parliamentary election, following the coronavirus disease COVID outbreak, in Medamulana, Sri Lanka, Aug , .  COLOMBO  The ruling Sri Lanka Podujana Peramuna SLPP led by Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa won a landslide victory in the August  parliamentary election by gaining a majority in the new parliament, official statistics from the Elections Commission showed here Friday. The Sri Lanka Podujana Peramuna won  seats in the member parliament, making it the single largest party to gain a nearly twothirds majority in parliament. The Samagi Jana Balawegaya or the United Peoples Front, led by former presidential candidate Sajith Premadasa polled in as the runnerup by winning  seats while the ITAK, a Tamil political party, won  seats. One of Sri Lankas oldest political parties, the United National Party, led by former Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe did not win any seats. SLPP candidate Mahinda Rajapaksa will be sworn in as the nations new Prime Minister following his partys victory, likely by the weekend after which a new cabinet will be appointed next week. According to the countrys constitution, the cabinet will be limited to  ministers. Rajapaksa, in a short statement on his official Twitter account soon after the partys victory, thanked his voters and expressed gratitude to them for placing their trust in President Gotabaya Rajapaksa and himself. We will ensure Sri Lanka will not stand disappointed during our tenure, Rajapaksa said. President Gotabaya Rajapaksa in a statement released late on Thursday night said he was confident of establishing a strong parliament following the SLPPs victory. Sri Lanka held its parliamentary election on Aug.  which was declared as one of the most peaceful elections held in the island countrys political history. A  percent voter turnout was recorded. Sri Lankas new parliament will convene on August .