Europe battens down against a second wave
2020/8/7 0:00
WASHINGTONWith outbreaks across Europe fueling fears of a second wave of coronavirus infections, national governments have tightened restrictions on movement, including border controls aimed at shutting off arrivals from hot spots. The worldwide death toll stood at , with ,, infections on Thursday, according to a tally kept by the Johns Hopkins University. Europe, which had largely brought the rate of fresh infections down sharply from earlier in the pandemic, has suffered , deaths, with ,, infections, as of Thursday, according to the World Health Organization. Several European countries and cities reimposed tighter restrictions, including a wakeup week in Greece and new face mask and quarantine rules elsewhere. Announcing the reintroduction of restrictions in Greece, a government spokesman Stelios Petsas told Mega TV on WednesdayWe are trying to awaken people with messages and daily announcements on additional measures, citing travel, social gatherings and public transport as major concerns for the virus spread. In the United Kingdom, the official coronavirus death toll stood at , on Wednesday. Restrictions reimposed on the northeastern Scottish city of Aberdeen included the closure of all indoor and outdoor hospitality venues from Wednesday evening as First Minister Nicola Sturgeon referred to what could become a significant outbreak. Across Scotland, Sturgeon said , people have tested positive for the virus, up by  from the day before. Toulouse, in southwest France, made face masks compulsory, with more French cities expected to follow suit. And Germany included Belgiums Antwerp Province on its list of regions requiring arriving travelers to quarantine for  days unless they can show a negative virus test. In Belgium, one of the countrys biggest meatprocessing plants, Westvlees, sent  staff home to quarantine after a cluster of coronavirus cases was discovered. Switzerland added mainland Spain to a quarantine list of  countries as well as Singapore and Romania. In the Netherlands, similar maskwearing measures came into force in Rotterdam and in some busy neighborhoods of Amsterdam, including its famous redlight district. The US tallied a further , deaths and , new cases on Wednesday, marking , total deaths and more than . million cases. It remains by far the worsthit country. In the new epicenter Florida, the state surpassed , coronavirus cases on Wednesday as testing ramped up following a temporary shutdown of some sites because of tropical storm Isaias, Floridas state officials said. In Arizona, more than  inmatesalmost half of the populationat a prison have tested positive for COVID, local prison officials have said. Biggest singleday rise In Asia, India on Wednesday recorded the biggest singleday rise in fatalities, at , for the latest hour period, as fresh infections surged by a further , cases to approach  million. The health ministry said the total number of deaths had reached ,, with , of them logged over the past  days. The ministry said the recovery rate for infected patients had improved to  percent from  percent over the past  days. Nearly , patients are still undergoing treatment. The case fatality stands at . percent of infections. In Africa, South Africas health minister on Wednesday reported decreasing rates of new confirmed cases but warned that vigilance must continue to prevent a renewed surge. South Africa had , cases as of Thursday, the fifth highest in the world and more than half of all reported cases in Africa, according to the Africa Centres for Disease Control and Prevention. So far, the country has recorded , deaths, although studies of excess mortality rates indicate the actual toll could be higher. The rapid spread of infections in poor, overcrowded urban centers in Cape Town, Johannesburg and other cities threatened to overwhelm public hospitals, but the countrys health minister said that the health system has been able to cope. Agencies  Xinhua ? An employee wearing a mask, distributes free masks to a street seller, in Amsterdam, Netherlands, on Wednesday. REMKO DE WAALAFP ? ?