, more COVID deaths seen unless US changes its ways
2021/8/30 14:03
A sign in a restaurant window informs customers that they will need to show proof that they are at least partly vaccinated for Covid to be allowed in the business on August ,  in New York City.  The US is projected to see nearly , more COVID deaths between now and Dec , according to the nations most closely watched forecasting model. Health experts say that toll could be cut in half if nearly everyone wore a mask in public spaces. In other words, what the coronavirus has in store this fall depends on human behavior. Behavior is really going to determine if, when and how sustainably the current wave subsides, said Lauren Ancel Meyers, director of the University of Texas COVID Modeling Consortium. We cannot stop delta in its tracks, but we can change our behavior overnight. That means doubling down again on masks, limiting social gatherings, staying home when sick and getting vaccinated. Those things are within our control, Meyers said. The US is in the grip of a fourth wave of infection this summer, powered by the highly contagious delta variant, which has sent cases, hospitalizations and deaths soaring again, swamped medical centers, burned out nurses and erased months of progress against the virus. Deaths are running at over , a day on average, turning the clock back to midMarch. One influential model, from the University of Washington, projects an additional , Americans will die by the start of December, for an overall death toll of nearly ,. The projection says deaths will rise to nearly , a day by midSeptember, then decline slowly. But the model also says many of those deaths can be averted if Americans change their ways. We can save , lives simply by wearing masks. Thats how important behaviors are, said Ali Mokdad, a professor of health metrics sciences at the University of Washington in Seattle who is involved in the making of the projections. Already there are signs that Americans are taking the threat more seriously. Amid the alarm over the delta variant in the past several weeks, the slump in demand for COVID shots reversed course. The number of vaccinations dispensed per day has climbed around  percent over the past month to an average of about ,. White House COVID coordinator Jeff Zients said Tuesday that in Alabama, Arkansas, Louisiana and Mississippi, more people got their first shots in the past month than in the prior two months combined. Also, millions of students are being required to wear masks. A growing number of employers are demanding their workers get the vaccine after the federal government gave Pfizers shot full approval earlier this week. And cities like New York and New Orleans are insisting people get vaccinated if they want to eat at a restaurant. Agencies via Xinhua