Digital juggernaut will usher in new, improved globalization
2020/8/6 10:34
H. Roger Wang, chairman of Committee of , a nonprofit US leadership organization of Chinese Americans, speaks during a press conference in New York, the United States, April , .  NEW YORK  The Committee of  C, a nonprofit US leadership organization of prominent Chinese Americans from different fields, announced on Wednesday a donation of , N masks to healthcare workers in underserved communities in the United States. The donation, valued at more than  million US dollars, will assist disproportionately impacted minority communities and the healthcare institutions that serve them in the fight against COVID. With this donation of , N masks, C seeks to provide muchneeded support to nearly  hospitals and healthcare institutions in the communities of color that continue to bear the brunt of this pandemic, said Zhengyu Huang, president of The Committee of . This project is a continuation of our ongoing efforts to combat COVID and collaborate on important issues that affect all Americans, but especially communities of color. C is partnering with leaders from American communities of color to donate high quality FDAapproved, NIOSHcertified N masks straight to hospitals operating in underserved American communities. These masks were purchased using private donations and secured in partnership with the American Chamber of Commerce in Shanghai, Flexport, NYU Langone Health, and Asian Tigers Moving  Storage. C is covering all associated shipping costs, with support from Flexports Frontline Responders Fund. The masks will be used by doctors, nurses, and other healthcare workers who continue to fight the pandemic on the frontline. Commending Cs donation, Peter Hatch, the COVID publicprivate partnership czar of new york city said, Our healthcare workers appreciate the generosity you have shown throughout the pandemic. Since the pandemic began, C and its membership have been a leader in fundraising and donating needed PPE to hospitals and communities throughout the United States. Earlier this year, C raised more than  million US dollars from members and distributed highquality FDAapproved, NIOSHcertified N masks, coveralls, and isolation gowns to  hospitals and healthcare institutions in communities hardest hit by the pandemic. C members have also individually donated more than  million US dollars to combat the pandemic. Xinhua