Wide support for legislative election postponement
2020/8/5 15:40
Hangzhou, capital of East Chinas Zhejiang province, reported on Wednesday a new asymptomatic case of COVID at a news briefing on Wednesday afternoon. The patient, a yearold college student, came from Kashgar in Xinjiang Uygur autonomous region. According to Wang Xuchu, deputy director of Hangzhous health authority, the patient flew from Kashgar to Shanghai Hongqiao International Airport on July  and then took a highspeed train to Hangzhou after a twoday stay in Shanghai. On Tuesday, the patient went to the ophthalmology department at the Second Affiliated Hospital of Zhejiang University School of Medicine and tested positive before surgery. Now, the patient, though without any clinical symptoms related to COVID, has been confirmed to be infected with the novel coronavirus and was sent to a designated hospital for isolation and medical treatment, according to the health official. Huang Jian, executive vicepresident of the Second Affiliated Hospital of Zhejiang University School of Medicine, said all medical staff at the ophthalmology department,  in total, have taken nucleic acid tests and all tested negative so far. Eight people who once had close contact with the patient, including his family members in Hangzhou and medical workers who received him, have been put under quarantine for further observation, according to Huang. He noted that the hospital has taken strict measures to control the spread of the coronavirus and disinfect the hospital areas to resume the operation of the department as soon as possible. At  am on Wednesday, the department resumed operation. Mao Genhong, vice secretarygeneral of the Hangzhou government, said the infected patient was confirmed to have worn face masks when taking public transportation and seeing the doctor. Investigations into details about the places the patient visited in Hangzhou and people he once had contact with are underway. Qin Jirong contributed to the story