picked to translate COVID book into English
2020/8/5 10:22
A restaurant employee in Beijing uses a delivery robot developed by SegwayNinebot to send food ordered by consumers online.?Photo provided to China Daily New technologies bringing meals, medicines, other orders to customers over barriers without crossinfection hazards In an industrial park in Beijing, workers were surprised to find the food they ordered online being delivered by a robot, which can take elevators and navigate all the way from a restaurant in an underground floor to an office on the th floor. The robot, named S, was developed by SegwayNinebot, a rising star in the smart travel industry. The company has been piloting robots to deliver food and parcels in several industrial parks and hotels for more than a year. But amid the COVID outbreak, its robots are playing a bigger role by partnering with more restaurants to deliver food within industrial parks. Sun Chunyang, who is in charge of the robotics business at SegwayNinebot, said S can deliver up to  realtime orders a day, with each delivery completed in eight minutes on average.Our robots are autonomous and contactfree, which can block the humantohuman transmission chain of the virus and reduce infection risks, Sun said. The Segway delivery robot S is one of a growing list of robots that have been used amid the COVID pandemic to help people better resume work while ensuring health. Robots are becoming increasingly popular in China as they check body temperature, deliver food and drugs, help disinfect offices and wards and accompany children and patients via voice interaction and body movements. They can be seen at airports, hotels, hospitals, shopping malls, schools, industrial parks, government institutions, office buildings and elsewhere to help reduce workloads and boost efficiency. Bi Yalei, secretarygeneral of the Shenzhen Robotics Association, said robots have played a positive role in helping fight the pandemic and people are getting more comfortable with these new technologies. The virus has led people to consider more scenarios for using robots and keeping people healthier and safer, Bi said. The wider use of robotics is also the result of Chinese companies constant efforts to experiment with the latest technologies to empower work and daily lives. For instance, Sun said S can now move between buildings after the companys progress in research and development. S can move outdoors inbetween buildings in pedestrian areas, and enter buildings through automatic doors, meaning it can handle far more complicated geographical information, Sun said. S has also been used to send food to Shenzhen hotels where people are quarantining themselves amid the contagion. The cargo box on the robot has an automatic cabin door, which can flexibly change from two to four slots, according to the size of goods the robot is transporting. As a result, the box can also contain sterilizing lamps to carry out disinfection work. Visitors take a picture of Cheetah Mobiles robots at an expo in Shanghai. Photo provided to China Daily After making steady progress in research and development, we have managed to beef up the robots functions and bring down their cost so that the value they create can now match prices and make clients more willing to buy the robots. We are poised to pounce at the opportunity to seek wider applications of our robots in the future, Sun said, adding that S can cross obstacles as high as  centimeters. More importantly, SegwayNinebot has developed a cloudbased multirobot coordination system which can dispatch an order to the nearest robot based on its realtime location. When one robot comes across another robot in an elevator, the system can also automatically determine which robot should get on or get off first, based on the priorities of the orders they are delivering, Sun added. The robot uses multidata integration technology that lets it deal with precise locations in different environments, as well as an advanced path planning algorithm and dynamic obstacle avoidance algorithm to achieve smooth movement, said SegwayNinebot, which was created in  after Beijingbased Ninebot acquired USbased Segway. The company said the next two years will be crucial for the deployment of delivery robots in closed industrial parks. By the end of , China will have some , highquality office buildings in the market, and  to  percent of them are likely to have delivery robots in operation, the company added. In addition to delivery robots, smart machines that can interact with patients are also being used during the pandemic. At the Shanghai Sixth Peoples Hospital affiliated to Shanghai Jiao Tong University, a Genabled robot instructed a group of patients on how to properly wear masks. Before touching a clean mask, wash your hands thoroughly with both soap and water. Then orient the top of the mask properly and make sure that the masks bendable side is facing upward, the robot said. In provinces including Hubei and Zhejiangand municipalities such as Shanghaithese robots, donated by China Mobile and Cloudminds, have offered a variety of automated medical services to help reduce pressure on frontline health workers when the outbreak was at its peak in China from February to March. Standing at over a meter high, the robots are equipped with arms or hands that can swing freely, with display screens on the front. China Mobile said these robots can offer medical advice, deliver drugs, provide navigation and conduct disinfection work at hospitals. They can also check peoples temperatures and perform other repetitive work. Using the robots to do such work in isolation wards can effectively reduce crossinfection, and enhance efficiency in taking care of patients, said Huang Xiaoqing, CEO and founder of Cloudminds, a company specializing in operating robots. Attendees look at the robots from Standard Robots at the power transmission and control expo, known as PTC ASIA , in Shanghai. Photo by?Lyu LiangFor China Daily Chinese tech company Cheetah Mobile Inc is also working to popularize robotics technologies, with more than , of its robots being deployed in multiple industries. The company said its robots have been deployed in shopping malls, exhibition areas, KTVs, libraries, office buildings, medical institutions, hotels, government buildings and other places. But unlike SegwayNinebots delivery robots that can move about, the companys robots are mostly stationary and chiefly serve as marketing tools. Fu Sheng, chairman of Cheetah Mobile, said when robots are deployed in large numbers, they can help people spend less time on repetitive jobs and give them more chances to engage in creative work. The humanmachine collaboration model can help companies reduce costs and increase efficiency, and the model uses robotics big data to improve the efficiency of offline economies, Fu said. Cheetah Mobile said its robots deployed at shopping malls are equipped with big screens and can recognize consumers via facial recognition, attract consumers to retail stores via voiceinteraction, collect consumer feedback and distribute coupons. Such functions can help shopping malls and retail stores better target consumers and improve marketing efficiency, the company added. But experts also sounded a note of caution for a sudden rise in demand for robots amid the contagion. They cannot guarantee longterm growth. Efforts are needed to exploit emerging opportunities in a way to ensure sustainable development, they said. Sun said demand may have increased amid the outbreak, but the contagion is not a thing that will profoundly reshape the service robot industry. What we can do is to better hone our expertise and wait for the upcoming largescale application of delivery robots, Sun added.