Too soon for Hong Kongs drop in cases to form trend
2020/8/5 8:45
People wearing face masks ride an escalator in a shopping mall in Central, Hong Kong, July , . Photo by Calvin NgChina Daily With  new cases on Tuesday, the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region entered a second day of doubledigit increases in confirmed coronavirus cases following a day streak of tripledigit daily spikes. Yet a medical official cautioned that its hard to judge whether the pandemic has started to abate because the daily increase is likely to rebound later in the week. Among the new cases are  locally transmitted cases, including  with unknown origin, said Chuang Shukkwan at news briefing from the citys Centre for Health Protection. The citys tally of cases is ,, with  deaths. Chuang said new case numbers were relatively low at the beginning of a week and often increased in the middle of the week, making it too early to draw conclusions. Chuang has previously said fewer people go to doctors on weekends. On Tuesday, seven mainland testing technicians visited three testing laboratories in Hong Kongset up separately by mainland medical companies BGI Group, Hybribio and KingMed Diagnosticsto learn about Hong Kongs testing status, local media reported. They are part of a strong medical team selected from Guangdong hospitals to assist the city with testing. An HKSAR government spokesperson said on Tuesday that the details of their duties and related arrangements are under discussion and will be announced later. Meanwhile, crossboundary research for a COVID vaccine showed strong promise as experts developed a recombinant receptorbinding domain vaccine that gave evidence of preventing COVID in animals such as macaques, according to research recently published in the journal Nature. The tests showed no side effects and the vaccines success rate was as high as  percent. Research was jointly conducted by Hong Kong Polytechnic University, Macau University of Science and Technology and several mainland institutions. PolyU professor Terence Lau Lokting said on a local radio program on Tuesday that clinical trials would be conducted a few months after the animal experiments, and largescale production of the vaccine is possible next year if everything goes well. A mainland company, Central South Architectural Design Institute, said on Monday that it has started to design ways to convert more of the AsiaworldExpo into a makeshift hospital area. Part of the venue has been converted, with  beds for patients with mild coronavirus cases. As of Tuesday at noon,  patients had been admitted.