Mainlands help with mass testing crucial for HK to quell pandemic
2020/8/5 8:34
New Yorkers in need receive free produce, dry goods, and meat at a Food Bank For New York City distribution event at the Barclays Center on July ,  in New York City.  By disrupting the worlds interconnected economic, social and geopolitical spheres, the COVID pandemic has exposed just how fragile and inequitable the institutions that govern them really are. It has also highlighted how difficult it is to address systemic fragility and inequity amid escalating national security threats. In , Dani Rodrik, a professor at Harvard University, proposed an impossibility theorem for the global economy, according to which democracy, national sovereignty and global economic integration are fundamentally incompatible. We can combine any two of the three, but never have all three simultaneously and in full, he said. Hong Kong model for growth and prosperity To see how social, economic and national security policies are entangled in this trilemma, consider Hong Kongs experience. Since British colonial rule, a policy of positive noninterventionism has enabled the citys economic growth. Hong Kongs colonial administrators knew that a relatively small market, manufacturing sector and trade volume meant that a commitment to openness, rather than a targeted development strategy, was the surest route to prosperity. They were right. Today, Hong Kong possesses one of the worlds busiest ports, and has long permitted capital, information and people to move freely. Nearzero tariffs and ultralow taxes have enabled the city to become a global financial hub, and one of the worlds biggest markets for equity and debt financing. And, from the start, the Chinese mainlands process of reform and openingup included deeper economic engagement with the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region, which boosted the citys dynamism. Yet, as in the advanced economies, the globalizationfueled economic boom masked deepening social problems. As manufacturing shifted from Hong Kong to the mainland, many jobs were lost, not only on the factory floor, but also in logistics and backoffice services. The result was a hollowingout of the middle class. Today, the SARs Gini coefficientin which zero represents maximum equality and one represents maximum inequalitystands at ., compared with . in the United States the highest among major developed economies. There was a time when Hong Kongs noninterventionist economic approach was accompanied by a similarly handsoff social policy. But the  riotsa labor dispute that grew into largescale protests against British ruleforced the government to build lowcost public housing to alleviate worker discontent. But the approach was flawed. Today, nearly  percent of Hong Kong residents live in public rental or subsidized housing. On the mainland, by contrast,  percent of households own at least one house. Americas highcost antiterrorist defenses Addressing these social problems will not be easy, not least because of rising national security risks. Hong Kongs economic development was enabled by nearzero national security costsa byproduct of peaceful SinoUS engagement. This began to change with the terrorist attacks of Sept , , which highlighted the asymmetry between lowcost weapons and highcost antiterrorist defensesand the need to implement such defenses, anyway. The risks posed by the more recent proliferation of digital technologies are marked by a similar asymmetry. Cyberattacks are cheap to mount, but they can topple entire financial, information or defense systems. As Rodriks trilemma suggests, such risks force governments to make tradeoffs. National security concerns must shape economic policy, but the result may not necessarily advance the imperative of delivering the resources needed to address social inequities. When economic policy fails to deliver reasonable social equityreflected in, for example, widespread home ownership and quality jobsinternal security risks rise. And, indeed, in Hong Kong, as in the US and many other places, many workers and young people have rejected the political establishment, embraced localist and populist ideologies, and protested against state institutions. Such trends often lead to chaos and violence, inviting tough action to restore order. Challenge for HK more complicated The challenge is all the more complicated for Hong Kong because of its position as a financial gateway between the mainland and an increasingly hostile US. As Rodrik has said, the SinoUS conflict is shaped largely by national security concerns, to the point that economics is at risk of becoming hostage to geopolitics or, worse, reinforcing and amplifying the strategic rivalry. The US weaponization of finance exemplifies this risk. Since the socalled war on terror began, the US has been leveraging the private sector and banks to isolate particular actors from the international financial system. In recent years, the US has relied so extensively on secondary sanctions that even France and Germany have been mulling how to sidestep its financial dominance, including by creating an alternative global payment system or a European fund that could allow trade to continue with USsanctioned countries. As the US has imposed financial sanctions on a growing number of Chinese enterprises and individuals, China is worried that the US could use the SAR as a kind of Trojan horse to destabilize the countrys polity, including its national security initiatives. After all, the US national security strategy explicitly aims to not only protect Americans and their way of life, but also advance American influence in the world. Chinas fears may be coming to pass. The US recently passed the socalled Hong Kong Autonomy Act, which allows for imposition of sanctions with respect to foreign persons involved in the erosion of certain obligations of China with respect to Hong Kong, and for other purposes. In other words, the US is using the financial system to punish Chinese officials involved in the implementation of the new national security law in the SAR. The US administration also considered undermining the Hong Kong currencys peg to the US dollar. Fortunately, US leaders thought better of this idea, because, considering the SARs position as the worlds fourthlargest foreignexchange trading center, it could threaten the entire US dollar payment system. Global tragedy of commons But this decision is small comfort given the trajectory of the USChina rivalry. The growing emphasis on national security will undermine global trade and investment further, leaving fewer resources to finance social policies, address inequality, and tackle climate change. This is a global tragedy of the commons, and there is no guarantee that recognizing it will change the outcome. Project Syndicate The views dont necessarily reflect those of China Daily. Andrew Sheng is a distinguished fellow at the Asia Global Institute at the University of Hong Kong and a member of the UNEP Advisory Council on Sustainable Finance and Xiao Geng, chairman of the Hong Kong Institution for International Finance, is a professor at and director of the Research Institute of Maritime SilkRoad at Peking University HSBC Business School.