HK govt to distribute reusable face masks to all residents
2020/8/4 12:09
? Teacher Hollie Morris and her two daughters, Mackenzie Tymon and Aislyn Morris, prepare for the parade protest where Florida teachers, whose unions are against their members returning to school, hold a car parade protest in front of the Pasco County School district office in Land O Lakes, Florida, US on July , .  Teachers across the United States are staging mass protests against the reopening of public schools amid the coronavirus pandemic over fears that they wont be safe despite the federal governments push for inperson classes to resume. In Arizona, Florida, Missouri, New Jersey, North Carolina and several other states, teachers plan to or already have walked out and are supported by major teachers unions. The protests are in reaction to President Donald Trumps demand that states reopen public schools for inperson teaching and not just the distancelearning that has been announced by a raft of school districts. Teachers nationwide are demanding that districts ramp up safety measures to defend against COVID by making face masks mandatory and extra ventilation in classrooms a priority. Dozens of teachers met on Saturday at Mill Creek Park in Kansas City, Missouri, to protest the reopening of schools in the fall. Amanda Laws, a Missouri educator, told local TV station KSHB I dont think its safe yet. One teacher in Jacksonville, Florida, protested by holding a handwritten sign from her car window that read Lives over lessons. Her daughter held her own handwritten sign Keep my mom safe. In Somerville, New Jersey, on Thursday, teachers from Somerset County walked up and down Main Street chanting Only when its safe! Amy Six, a teacher from North Plainfield said I dont want to die. In states that have already reopened for inperson classes, students and teachers at schools in Mississippi and Georgia have been diagnosed with the coronavirus. The American Federation of Teachers AFT, the nations secondlargest teachers union with . million members, said on July  that it would support safety strikes as a last resort if teachers believed that their school districts werent taking enough precautions. Around  percent of teachers nationwide were members of a teaching union in , according to The New York Times. AFT President Randi Weingarten said at its recent convention If authorities dont protect the safety and health of those we represent and those we serve nothing is off the table. Not advocacy or protests, negotiations, grievances, or lawsuits or, if necessary and authorized by a local union as a last resort, safety strikes. The union adopted a resolution that school districts must wait to reopen classrooms until the transmission rate of coronavirus in an area falls below  percent and the daily community infection rate is below  percent. The countrys largest teachers union, the Florida Education Association FEA, sued that states Republican governor, Ron DeSantis, last month over his push to fully reopen schools as the number of cases in the state spiked. The Sunshine State, the new epicenter of the virus in the US, confirmed , new cases of coronavirus on Monday, bringing its total to ,, with a death toll of ,, according to the Florida Department of Health. FEA President Fedrick Ingram said of the lawsuit in a statement Governor DeSantis needs a reality check, and we are attempting to provide one. The governor needs to accept the reality of the situation here in Florida, where the virus is surging out of control. On July , Trump threatened to withhold federal funding to schools that refused to fully reopen with inperson classes. He tweeted In Germany, Denmark, Norway, Sweden and many other countries, SCHOOLS ARE OPEN WITH NO PROBLEMS. The Dems think it would be bad for them politically if US schools open before the November Election, but is important for the children  families. May cut off funding if not open! Dr Deborah Birx, a member of the White House Coronavirus Task Force, appeared to distance herself from the administrations official line over the weekend, sounding a note of caution on reopening schools. Birx told CNN If you have high case load and active community spread.  Were asking people to distancelearn at this moment so we can get this epidemic under control. A poll by the Kaiser Family Foundation in July found that  percent of parents would prefer that schools wait to resume inperson teaching. Thirtyfour percent want schools to reopen sooner so that they can go to work. The survey found that at least  percent of Democrats want to wait for schools to reopen.