US stress on security will hurt trade
2020/8/4 10:31
The first selfdriving taxi in Guangzhou, Guangdong province, starts trial operation. Photo by?Liu LiqinFor China Daily New age technologies of autonomous driving companies gaining traction, investment from leading global giants? Without anyone behind the wheel, a taxi automatically started and made its way down the road, only to slowly come to a full stop at the first red light. Hu Wanqing, a sales manager from Guangzhou, Guangdong province, was fascinated by the selfdriving taxi. It was the first time the yearold Hu hailed such a vehicle. Hu said she did feel nervous at first, but her worries were soon dispelled when the taxi gradually braked to allow a pedestrian to cross its path. The car is no different than an ordinary taxi. It just runs smooth and steadily, like a taxi driver with over  years experience, she said. Like Hu, many in Guangzhou have begun to be able to hail selfdriving taxis, or robotaxis, since late June after the countrys autonomous driving startup WeRide announced that its selfdriving taxi service will be available on Alibabas navigation platform Amap. Autonomous driving is revving up its commercialization in China, especially as the COVID outbreak has sped up related applications. Among them, robotaxis have come to the forefront of selfdriving commercialization with several tech giants and selfdriving companies recently launching unmanned taxi services. Leading ridehailing startup Didi Chuxing opened its ondemand robotaxi services in Shanghai in June. It followed tech giant Baidu Inc, known for its Apollo selfdriving platform, announcing the opening of its selfdriving taxi service in Changsha, Hunan province, in April. Momenta, a Daimlerbacked Chinese autonomous driving startup, said that some of its vehicles will be driverless by  in Suzhou, Jiangsu province, where it received a test license, and its entire robotaxi fleet will operate without backup drivers in . The autonomous driving sector is speeding up commercialization in China. It is expected that largescale application of such cars will be a reality over the next two or three years, which is earlier than expected, said Zhang Li, chief operating officer of WeRide. The nations efforts in new infrastructure are also accelerating the commercialization of selfdriving vehicles and bringing a unique open market environment for local tech startups, Zhang said. Currently, the nations robotaxis are based on Level  autonomous driving, where a vehicle can run autonomously without human intervention in most cases. Autonomous driving is divided into six levels from Level  to Level . Level  refers to eyes off in which the vehicle will handle situations requiring an immediate response, but the driver must still be prepared to intervene within a limited time. Level  is the highest standard, which means no human intervention is required at all. For the time being, the countrys robotaxis are all equipped with a backup driver in the car to ensure safety in case of emergencies. Companies also rely on safety control centers to monitor selfdriving vehicles and road conditions in real time and give timely assistance and instructions to vehicles in need. Robotaxis can generate huge economic benefits in terms of profitability of labor cost savings. Replacing drivers with driverless technology will save  percent of total costs, said Yang Zeyuan, an analyst from CITIC Securities. For most robotaxi services, passengers pay the same fee as for regular taxis. In Guangzhou, for instance, passengers pay a flagfall fee of  yuan . and another . yuan every kilometer. The advanced technology requires many inputs, which may lead to difficulties in the shortterm profitability of operating robotaxis. But we are bullish on longterm profit prospects, Yang said. The commercialization of robotaxis is nearing with the decline in the cost of selfdriving car components, Yang said. With peoples increasing demand for ridehailing services, robotaxis will usher in broader development prospects in the country. It is also expected that the global market will reach hundreds of billion dollars in the near future, Yang added. A safety officer and a navigator inside a selfdriving taxi during its trial in Changsha, Hunan province. Photo by?Yang HuafengChina News Service The Ministry of Industry and Information Technology said the size of the global robotaxi fleet will reach , this year and , in . Autonomous driving has gained traction and investment since the COVID outbreak as investors have become more cautious about investing in other industries amid the contagion. The sector has been seeing a flurry of major deals like the autonomous driving unit of Didi Chuxing getting  million in investment from Japans SoftBank. Another autonomous driving firm, Pony.ai, finished a new round of funding totaling  million. Wu Gansha, CEO of Chinese selfdriving startup Uisee, believes the sector is now ready for a takeoff. Investors are more confident on the commercialization of intelligent driving and hence willing to invest. From this year, we should start seeing largescale commercialization of driverless vehicles, Wu said. We have been seeing a healthy pickup in orders, said Wu, whose startup focuses on highlevel autonomous driving and completed a new round of financing in February. During the outbreak, several hospitals and companies used selfdriving vehicles to deliver necessities like masks and meals to patients and medical workers. Earlier this year, China unveiled a blueprint to boost autonomous driving in the country. According to the blueprint, the country will realize scale production of vehicles capable of conditional autonomous driving and commercialization of highlevel autonomous vehicles in certain scenarios by . Smart vehicles have become a global strategy and China has a strategic edge in developing smart cars with the complete automobile industry and evolving information technology, the document said. In March, the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology launched classification standards for autonomous driving in China, which has helped speed up the countrys autonomous driving industry. According to the latest report from global management consulting firm McKinsey Co, China will become the worlds largest market for autonomous vehicles, with revenue from sales of such new cars and mobility services expected to exceed  billion by . It predicted that by , the total sales volume of autonomous vehicles is expected to hit  billion and autonomous vehiclebased services will generate a gross booking of around  billion. Chinese consumers surveyed have shown their willingness to pay as much as an extra , as a premium to purchase autonomous vehicles, while customers from the US and Germany are willing to pay an extra , and ,, respectively, it said. However, Yang Xu, a life and services analyst at consultancy Analysys, pointed out that the commercialization of autonomous delivery remains a long way off and still faces some challenges ahead. Before this can be achieved, a number of problems including complicated road conditions, technological bottlenecks, operating costs and supervision need to be dealt with, Yang said.