Containing pandemic key to reviving HK economy, financial secretary says
2020/8/4 10:07
Tokyo reported  new coronavirus cases on Monday, marking a seventh consecutive day of increases above  in the capital as Japan contends with a resurgence in the virus. ? A saleswoman wearing a face shield distributes leaflets on the street amid the coronavirus disease COVID pandemic in Tokyo, Japan August , .  As of Monday, cases newly reported across Japan topped , for a fifth straight day, with over half the infections declared untraceable and spread in homes, medical institutions and among elderly people, said Shigeru Omi, head of a panel of experts advising the Japanese government. With the rise in cases, concerns are growing over an upcoming Obon holiday, which starts next Thursday, many young people are likely to return home to pay their respects to the dead and spend time with oftenelderly relatives. Chief Cabinet Secretary Yoshihide Suga said on Monday that the government will not ask people to refrain from travel. We are not asking people to refrain from travel across the board. We are just asking them to be very cautious, said Suga, the governments top spokesman. Prime Minister Shinzo Abe backed up this message in calling on people to keep taking protective measures against the virus. At the prime ministers office on Monday, Abe said Shops are selling a variety of masks. I would like to ask people to wear masks when going out as a prevention measure. No signs of slowdown The coronavirus is showing no signs of the once hopedfor summer slowdown in Japan. Infections that had largely been concentrated in the capital have spread to other urban areas and regions that had not seen cases for months. It seems that the measures to trace clusters had reached their limits, and it is necessary to further expand the monitoring efforts to find infected people quickly, said Mitsuyoshi Urashima, a professor of molecular epidemiology at Tokyos Jikei University. In response to the growing number of cases, local government officials have started to backtrack on moves to reopen economies. Yoshihito Niki, a professor of infectious diseases at Showa Universitys School of Medicine, said the national governments haste in reopening the economy is to blame for the resurgence in COVID. This is the result of the government prioritizing economic activity by getting people to move around again over the need for infection control. Agencies contributed to this story.