Yangzhou roaring back to normal after beating virus
2021/8/29 13:44
Medical workers involved in nucleic acid testing form the shape of a heart at Northern Jiangsu Peoples Hospital in Yangzhou, East Chinas Jiangsu province, on Aug , .  A return to normal life from COVID may occur soon in Yangzhou, Jiangsu province, after the city took strict measures to contain the virus for five weeks. A yearold patient, who was in serious condition, will be discharged from hospital on Sunday afternoon. The patient was the oldest of all Yangzhous confirmed cases, many of whom were senior people who got infected at mahjong lounges. The city, with a population of more than . million, has reported  locally transmitted cases since July . As of Saturday,  patients had recovered and been discharged from hospital, according to the local health commission. All the fresh food markets in Yangzhous downtown areas, which were closed for virus containment, have resumed operation gradually since Sunday. People selling and buying food at the markets should present a green QR code, wear a mask, check body temperature and keeps at least onemeter social distance. Also, the city has started to lift the lockdown of communities and villages in its downtown areas that reported no cases and managed effective control measures since Sunday. All the lockdown will be removed by Wednesday, said the citys virus control and prevention headquarters. On Saturday, the provincial government and the Nanjing government established a joint defense and control headquarters to manage the Lukou International Airport and its surrounding areas. The airport, where clusters of infection were first reported in the latest breakout of COVID on the mainland, has resumed operation since last Thursday. The headquarters, consisting of  departments including Jiangsus civil aviation safety management bureau, Nanjings exitentry border inspection station and the public security bureau at the airport, will work jointly to guarantee the safety of the airport. The capital city has reported  locally transmitted cases since July .