Italys coronavirus reproduction rate approaches . threshold
2020/8/4 10:01
A bar employee wears a protective face mask while standing at St. Marks Square amid the coronavirus disease COVID outbreak in Venice, Italy July , .  ROME  Italys coronavirus infection rate has gradually climbed over the last four weeks with the national reproduction rate climbing near an important threshold, government figures have shown. Government and health officials urged caution but said the situation remains under control. According to the data released on Friday by the National Institute of Health, best known as the ISS, the national coronavirus reproduction rate in Italy has risen to .  just below the . threshold. The number refers to the average number of other people infected by each infected individual. But eight Italian regions  including Lazio, the region that includes the Italian capital of Rome Campania, which includes Naples, the countrys thirdlargest city the southern island region of Sicily and EmiliaRomagna, which includes the city of Bologna  all have reproduction rates above .. Still below . is Lombardy, by far Italys hardesthit region which includes the countrys financial capital of Milan. The transmission of the coronavirus in Italy persists, which means that when there are certain conditions there can be significant outbreaks, the ISS said in a statement. Though the reproduction rate is rising, total infections remain remarkably low. On Monday, the country of more than  million residents recorded  new infections and  deaths from COVID, the disease caused by the coronavirus. Mondays number of new infections is the lowest Since July , a period that saw three days with more than  infections. Still, the daily figures remain far below the totals from March  and April , when there were at least , infections  times in the day period. Similarly, Mondays death total was the highest since July  but dramatically below the worst period of the outbreak, which included a peak oneday death total of  on March . According to figures from the Ministry of Health, the outbreak has now claimed , lives in Italy, with infections totaling ,. In the last  hours,  patients were listed as recovered from the pandemic, bringing that total to ,. According to Massimo Galli, director of the Institute for Biomedical Science at the Sacco Hospital in Milan, the latest increase in infections is due to a mix of domestic transmission and the arrival of infected people from abroad. But Galli, in an interview with the Rome newspaper Il Messaggero, said Italy should not consider closing its borders, which it started to open to foreign arrivals starting June . Closing the borders would imply a very serious problem and would seriously damage an already weakened economy, Galli said in the interview. We are far from that point. We will have to deal with a small number of imported cases. Gallis remarks coincide with efforts from the Italian government to attract tourists from countries where the outbreak is deemed to be under control. Those efforts include modest ad campaigns, and, according to media reports, a handbook published especially for tourists showing the coronavirus rules in each of Italys  regions.