Provinces to slash prices at tourist sites
2020/8/4 9:11
Taishan Mountain in Taian, East Chinas Shandong province.  More than  tourists sites in Shandong, Shanxi, Henan, Shaanxi, Guizhou and Gansu provinces have issued plans to cut ticket prices to attract more tourists and revive the industry that has been marred by the COVID epidemic. As of Saturday,  tourist attractions in Shandong, including Taishan Mountain and the Worlds Best Spring Scenic Area, have begun reducing ticket prices from  percent to  percent in a campaign that will last until the end of this year, according to a notice issued by the provinces culture and tourism department. Nie Jing, who works at the Worlds Best Spring Scenic Area publicity department, said the number of tourists is limited to  percent of capacity. To protect against potential infection, tourists are required to wear masks, have their temperatures checked and show their health QR codes, she said. To revive the tourism sector in Guizhou, the provincial government had offered free tickets at all  Alevel tourist attractions in the province from April to July. Now ticket prices have been cut in half for the general public, while medical workers can enjoy free admission, for the rest of the year. Fanjing Mountain participated in the free ticket promotion and is among the sites currently offering a  percent discount, according to Li Lanli, acting general manager of Guizhou Sante Fanjingshan Tourism Development Co, which manages the natural scenic spot. All tickets to the mountain, which reopened on Feb , are being sold online to better control the number of people allowed, he said. Thanks to the free ticket policy during the peak of summer before August, the number of tourists at the mountain has increased to almost  percent of the maximum capacity since July , he said. Tourists are required to show their health QR codes, wear masks and have their temperatures checked at the gate. The company carries out disinfections in public areas four times each day, he added. Since July , the Ministry of Culture and Tourism has allowed travel agencies to resume group tours that cross provincial borders, and the limit on the number of visitors allowed in tourist attractions has been set at  percent of the capacity, up from  percent previously. According to a survey by Trip.com Group, an online travel agency,  percent of its users plan to travel to other provinces in the second half of this year, and more than  percent said they will travel to other provinces shortly. Wang Xingbin, a tourism industry expert from Beijing International Studies University, told Beijing Business Today that the tourism industry has experienced strong momentum in recovery since the resumption of crossprovincial travel. Apart from lowering ticket prices, tourist sites have also resorted to other means including increasing operating hours and launching livestreaming travel to attract tourists as the industry recovers from the economic blow, he said. The loss in ticket prices can be made up by spending on accommodation and food as more tourists visit the attractions, he said. He also cautioned that it might not be a longterm solution as many tourist sites are already strapped for cash due to low revenue generated in the first half of this year.