China boost drives G usage
2020/8/3 7:39
As the emeritus directorgeneral of the World Health Organization and a member of the Hong Kong community, I strongly support the Hong Kong SAR governments timely and decisive decision to postpone the Legislative Council election of Sept  to protect the health and wellbeing of the Hong Kong people. Indeed, more than  countries worldwide have postponed elections to reduce the risk of infection by the novel coronavirus, which is raging around the world. The third wave of infection by COVID in Hong Kong is very worrying! The very rapid rate of increase in daily cases, especially in the densely populated environment of Hong Kong, the long incubation period, and asymptomatic infection are also unpredictable, making the control of this infection very difficult. Our healthcare system and the healthcare workers are already overwhelmed, and we need to protect them as well. If the current trend of infection continues, our health systems could collapse, and this is the last thing we want to see. I praise the Hong Kong SAR government in taking swift steps to request assistance from the Chinese mainland to increase the local healthsystem capacities in quick detection by testing, and in increasing isolationbeds facilities. Solidarity and collaboration are precisely what we need to fight back against the virus. In addition, one cannot stress enough the very important role and discipline of the general public in the use of masks, social distancing and personal hygiene to minimize the risk of infection. Any waitandsee mentality, any attempt to downplay the epidemic situation and delayed action, will bring disastrous consequences. The pandemic is not over yet! The novel coronavirus is the most cunning virus I have ever seen in my  years in global health. It certainly has the ability to make a strong comeback and cause havoc anytime, anywhere, including in Hong Kong. Therefore, strong vigilance and resolute efforts are crucial to stop the virus from making a comeback. The views do not necessarily reflect those of China Daily. ?