Siemens ramps up efforts for smart city solutions
2020/8/3 7:39
The third wave of COVID infections in Hong Kong is fierce. New confirmed cases had remained at a threedigit level for  days as of Sunday. To make things worse, many of the confirmed cases are untraceable. In an attempt to cut down the invisible transmission chains, the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region government launched stricter socialdistancing rules, including banning all dinein services after  pm, and allowing only two people to gather in public places. Meanwhile, masks are now a must in all outdoor and indoor public areas, as they are deemed an effective way to prevent viruscontaining droplets. Violators of the rule are subject to a fixed penalty of HK, . During the press conference at which these rules were announced, what surprised me most was that a government official made it clear that one may be deemed in violation of the mask rule if he or she takes off his or her mask to smoke. Since , smoking has been banned in the indoor areas of all restaurants, workplaces, public areas and some specific outdoor public places in the city. In addition to its help in curbing first and secondhand smoke, the ban has contributed to a special scene in Hong Kong People gather in public areas, usually near dustbins, to smoke. Smoking together in public areas has since become a new type of social networking for smokers in Hong Kong. A local bestselling romance movie, Love in a Puff, even made it the scene where the two main characters  played by Miriam Yeung Chinwah and Shawn Yue Manlok  meet before they fall in love and eventually get married. Smoking to make new friends  this seems a good branding technique for an often lifeending habit. And with the rise of vaping in recent years, smoking is also a way to illustrate that you are on trend. It is needless to list what harm smoking does to the human body  just take a look at the packaging on every cigarette pack sold in Hong Kong. The latest government figures showed there are around , smokers in Hong Kong. Among them,  percent smoke every day. Some  percent of the regular smokers started the habit because they were influenced by friends, while the most commonly cited reason for failing to give up smoking was not determined enough. In a report published in  by the Center for Health Protection, Towards  Strategy and Action Plan to Prevent and Control Noncommunicable Diseases in Hong Kong, the government aims to reduce smoking to . percent of the citys population. The figure for  stood at . percent. Now, with mask wearing a must in all public areas and a cash penalty for removing it to indulge the inhaling habit, smokers, the notsodetermined ones in particular, may find a perfect excuse, or an extra motivation, to temporarily stop or even quit smoking for good. For the government, it is good timing to launch another round of its antismoking campaign to help residents kick the habit. And it did grasp the opportunity this time. On the evening after the press conference last week, the Centre for Health Protection called on smokers on Facebook to quit, as taking off masks and touching noses and faces with your hands may help the virus infect you. Along with the slogan, the CHP also posted links to a website and a mobile app that helps smokers stop. If we adopt a negative view in looking at the third wave of COVID, we may find ourselves dismayed. But if we try to look at things from different angles, we may find silver linings. Like this time, an ideal time to quit smoking, a move that will contribute to future health. ?