US senator defends China against lawsuit
2020/8/3 6:54
People wearing masks walk in the Central area of Hong Kong, July , .  Mainland aids SAR with experts, medical experience from early days of epidemic The Hong Kong Special Administrative Regions grave pandemic situation has seen a ray of hope of being under control, with the nations full support and local governments decision to defer the legislative elections, observers from various sectors held. The remarks came as the city recorded tripledigit daily spikes in new cases for  consecutive days on Sunday. The case tally stood at , and  deaths. Guangdong province has selected  virus testing technicians to support Hong Kong, and seven of them arrived in the city on Sunday. The province also pledged to offer more medical resources in view of Hong Kongs demands. Wuhan, Hubei province, the Chinese city hit hardest by COVID, gained wide experience in building makeshift hospitals and will soon send six experts to help convert more parts of Hong Kongs AsiaWorldExpo into mobile cabin hospitals and to build a new temporary hospital in the city. Hong Kongs first makeshift hospital, built in AsiaWorldExpo with assistance from mainland experts, began operations on Saturday as a triage center for patients. As of Sunday noon,  patients had been sent there. Hong Kong Financial Secretary Paul Chan Mopo wrote in his blog on Sunday that the nations aid is crucial for the HKSAR to overcome the virus as its pandemicprevention strategies have been proven effectivemost mainland cities have controlled the epidemic and gotten back on track. Hong Kong needs to draw from this useful experience to contain the pandemic, Chan said. Given the critical situation, the Hong Kong government announced on Friday it would delay the Legislative Council election for a year to Sept , . Tung Cheehwa, vicechairman of the National Committee of the Chinese Peoples Political Consultative Conference, described the decision as lawful and reasonable and said that careful consideration had been given to all factors to arrive at the best solution. Another vicechairman of the CPPCC National Committee, Leung Chunying, said the election delay would help the city focus on public health and restore normal economic activities. He said that the opposition politicians criticizing the move were putting politics above public health. Margaret Chan Fung Fuchun, former directorgeneral of the World Health Organization, cautioned that Hong Kongs healthcare system is already overwhelmed amid the raging pandemic. She warned of possible disastrous consequences if the epidemic situation were downplayed and actions were delayed. In separate statements, the citys deputies to the National Peoples Congress and members of the CPPCC National Committee said the delay shows that government has prioritized public health.