Germany coach Flick ahead of delicate decision due to COVID
2021/11/14 19:49
Dutch riot police deploy at Zaailand square to remove a large groupe of people who, among other things, threw fireworks in Leeuwarden on November ,  as the cabinet has tightened the coronavirus measures again due to rising contamination figures. The group of people, who had to leave the entertainment venues at  pm due to the coronavirus measures that came into effect at that time, ignored orders from the police to leave.  THE HAGUE  Dutch police arrested  people in a town in the north of the Netherlands late Saturday during clashes with demonstrators who were protesting against a new partial lockdown. Police said that hundreds of people had gathered on a square in the center of Leeuwarden to protest against the new anticoronavirus rules, under which bars and restaurants must close at  pm  GMT. On Friday, Dutch premier Mark Rutte announced at least three weeks of lockdown measures targeting restaurants, shops and sporting events to curb a record spike in coronavirus infections. Footage by Dutch public television NOS showed protesters drinking and singing on the steps of the justice ministry. And the local police tweeted that a large group of demonstrators set off fireworks and refused to leave the town center. Under Europes first partial lockdown of the winter, bars, restaurants, cafes and supermarkets must shut at  pm and nonessential shops must shut at  pm, until December . People will be limited to having four visitors at home and have been advised to work at home unless absolutely necessary. Public events will be scrapped while football matches including the Netherlands home World Cup qualifier with Norway next week must be played behind closed doors. Schools will however remain open, and people will be allowed to leave their homes without restrictions. Thousands of people demonstrated in The Hague last Sunday following the announcement by the government of the reintroduction of maskwearing rules in some public spaces.  Agencies via Xinhua