White House, lawmakers make progress on relief bill, but deal not imminent
2020/8/2 11:32
A nurse wearing personal protective equipment watches an ambulance driving away outside of Elmhurst Hospital during the ongoing outbreak of the coronavirus disease COVID in the Queens borough of New York, US, April , .  WASHINGTON  White House officials and lawmakers said on Saturday that theyve made progress during talks on a new COVID relief bill, while cautioning that major differences remain, according to US media. Well, this was the longest meeting we had, and it was more productive than the other meetings, Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer, a New York Democrat, told reporters after the meeting on Capitol Hill, the Politico reported. There are many issues that are still very much outstanding, where were apart, but we had a serious discussion and we went down piece by piece and saw where each side is at, said the Senate Democratic leader. Echoing Schumers remarks, Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said the discussions are the most productive weve had to date, while stressing that theres still a lot of work to do. There will be more stafflevel discussions on Sunday, and the leaders are set to meet again facetoface on Monday, the report said. As negotiations for the new relief package stall, the extra  unemployment benefits for roughly  million people expired on Friday, as did an eviction moratorium. Republican and Democratic lawmakers, facing immense pressure to reach a deal to salvage the economy from COVID, have blamed each other for failing to make progress. Republicans tried several ways to extend unemployment benefits. Democrats blocked them all, Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, a Kentucky Republican, tweeted on Friday. The country cant afford this cynicism. Americans need help now, said McConnell. In response, House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, a California Democrat, blamed Republicans for failure to act in time. More than ten weeks ago, we passed the Heroes Act, which had a path to containing this virus with testing, tracing, treatment, mask wearing, sanitation. The Republicans said they wanted to take a pause. Well, the virus didnt, Pelosi said Friday at a weekly press conference, referring to the trillion relief package approved by House Democrats in May. Senate Republicans on Monday unveiled their trillion relief package, which would slash the  federal unemployment benefits to  through September, giving an unemployed worker about  percent of previous wages when combined with state benefits. But Democrats want to maintain the current level of benefits through January. The Republican proposal also includes another round of , direct payments to working Americans, billions in loans to small businesses through Paycheck Protection Program, liability protections for businesses, doctors and schools, as well as aid for schools. On aid for schools, Republicans planned to approve  billion for reopening schools and colleges, while Democrats proposed  billion for schools, including  billion for childcare facilities. Another sticking point in the negotiation is direct aid to states and cities, as the Democrats proposed a nearly trillion aid for struggling state and local governments in their trillion relief proposal, while Republicans planned to offer no new money.