Moon, Trump to meet on DPRK issue
2020/8/1 17:15
Photo by Calvin NgChina Daily HONG KONG  A makeshift hospital at the AsiaWorldExpo, a venue near the Hong Kong International Airport, began receiving COVID patients with mild symptoms since Saturday afternoon, Hong Kongs Hospital Authority HA said. The authority estimated that about  to  patients would be admitted on the first day. Photo by Calvin NgChina Daily Henry Fan Hungling, chairman of HA, said earlier that  beds are available in the first phase, and another , will be available if needed. The makeshift hospital mainly receives COVID patients with mild symptoms or those still waiting to be admitted to hospital. A patient will go through a physical examination in the makeshift hospital, and those with low blood oxygen, breathlessness or abnormal Xray results will be sent to hospital immediately. Experts said the makeshift hospital can help release more hospital beds so that patients with more severe symptoms can get necessary and timely treatment. Photo by Calvin NgChina Daily At the entrance of the makeshift hospital, three flatTV screens broadcast each and every bed and each patients conditions in a tabular form, and another four screens played the live coverage of the surveillance cameras. Dozens of computers have been lined up for registration outside the entrance. Medics have to put on their isolation gown and other protective gear in specific cubicles before entering. Eight wheelchairs, three sliding hospital beds and  chairs facing a TV are available in the waiting area near the wards. Photo by Calvin NgChina Daily Inside each semiisolated ward of about three meters long and three meters wide are a bed, a bedside table, a desk and a chair. WiFi connections and common areas with TVs and sofas are also installed. An onsite medical staffer told Xinhua that there are  toilets that circle around the wards. Besides, several clinical waste areas, hand washing basins and an Xray room are ready for use. To reduce the contact between medical staff and patients, apart from ultraviolet disinfection rooms and changing rooms, there are also selfservice facilities for patients to disinfect themselves and measure their blood pressure and oxygen content. Photo by Calvin NgChina Daily Wong Shukching, senior nursing officer of Queen Mary Hospital, said besides  newlypurchased beds, the rest  beds were sent by hospitals across Hong Kong. Set meals will be served three times a day for the patients, she said. Cheng Chichung, a doctor with Queen Mary Hospital, said a patient can be discharged after he or she shows negative results in two nucleic acid tests or shows positive in an antibody test. Photo by Calvin NgChina Daily Hong Kong is getting stressed out in the face of a resurgence of coronavirus infections since the beginning of July. The total tally spiked from , on July  to , on Saturday, with most of the new patients getting infected locally. New cases have remained above  for  consecutive days. The rapid increase has put Hong Kongs hospital system under great strain as isolation wards and beds are being squeezed to the limit, with many new patients unable to be admitted to hospital for isolation treatment in time. We are on the verge of a largescale community outbreak, which may lead to a collapse of our hospital system and cost lives, especially of the elderly, Chief Executive of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region HKSAR Carrie Lam said earlier this week, noting that Hong Kong is facing the most severe epidemic situation since January. Photo by Calvin NgChina Daily Given the grave challenge, the central government has pledged all necessary support for Hong Kong. Hong Kong has the strong backing of the great motherland to overcome the epidemic and all sorts of risks, the Hong Kong and Macao Affairs Office of the State Council said Friday in a statement. At the request of the HKSAR government, the central government has decided to send testing personnel to Hong Kong to help with largescale nucleic acid tests and assist Hong Kong in building temporary quarantine and treatment centers, the office said. Photo by Calvin NgChina Daily The National Health Commission said Saturday that seven members of a newlyestablished strong nucleic acid testing team from the mainland will arrive in Hong Kong on Sunday, marking the first batch of mainland professionals to join the antiepidemic fight here, with more medical personnel and materials available if needed. Besides, the commission has also set up a panel of six experts from Wuhan to provide technical support for Hong Kongs construction of makeshift hospitals. While Hong Kongs medical system is approaching its limit, the assistance from the mainland at this critical point will inject a shot of cardiotonic into Hong Kongs antiepidemic fight, Ng Chaupei, president of the Hong Kong Federation of Trade Unions, said earlier this week. Echoing Ng, Chan Yung, vicechairperson of the Democratic Alliance for the Betterment and Progress of Hong Kong, said the mainland has gained a lot of valuable experience in the battle against COVID and the firm support of the central government will be a strong guarantee for Hong Kong to win the fight. The HKSAR government has introduced several rounds of stringent measures over the past weeks, such as compulsory maskwearing in all public places, the group gathering limit of two people, and tightened testing and quarantine arrangement for exempted persons such as sea and air crew members. Meanwhile, due to the current COVID outbreak, the chief executive on Friday announced the postponement of the  Legislative Council General Election of the HKSAR by one year.