First Harry Potter movie to return to China in D in August
2020/7/31 7:54
A Beijing cinema reopens on July , after being closed for  days due to the pandemic. Chinas film industry shows early signs of recovery as cinemas reopen amid the pandemic, Xu Fan reports. The rise in boxoffice takings last weekend indicates a sign of recovery for Chinas film industry, with more than half of the countrys cinemas reopening after a sixmonth closure due to the COVID pandemic. As of Thursday, , of more than , cinemas had reopened, accounting for . percent of all such venues in China, which has nearly , screensthe most in the world, according to Beacon, the movieinformation tracing service of Chinese internet giant Alibaba. From July  to , Chinas box office grossed nearly  million yuan . million, more than four times the total amount earned from July  to , propelling the first relaunch week to gross over  million yuan. Over the past six months, thousands of Chinese cinemas struggled to survive, with some shifting to selling snacks and drinks online or renting venues for other services, such as weddingphoto shoots. Cinemas take strict disinfection measures in Wuhan, Hubei province.Photo provided to China Daily More than  old films are set to be screened, and all ticket revenues will go to theaters instead of being shared with movie companies as is the norm in China. The effort is to ease the financial difficulties of cinemas, according to China Film Group Corp and Huaxia Film Distribution, two of the countrys largest Stateowned movie companies. Drawing audiences back to cinemas is a top concern among many industry insiders. China Film Administrations guidelines for resuming theater operations under the COVID prevention protocol require audiences to book tickets online in advance, wear masks inside venues and not eat or drink during screenings, which are limited to two hours each. Beacons figures show that movietheater attendance reached nearly . million visits last week. Li Jie, president of Alibaba Pictures, says hes delighted to see audience interest is returning. Cinema visitors check in with their cellphones in Guangzhou on July . The following two weeks will be very important for the recovery of the market. We estimate that boxoffice revenues will rise to around twothirds of the amount in the same period last year, says Li. Most of the films being screened are classics or previous runaway hits, including the Chinese crime drama Sheep Without a Shepherd, Oscar winner Coco and Chinas alltime highestgrossing animated title, Ne Zha. But figures show that audiences are more willing to return to cinemas for fresh content. Dolittle, Robert Downey Jrs first film since he left Marvel superhero films as the iconic character Iron Man, topped the weekend box office in China, followed by scifi action film Bloodshot, starring Vin Diesel. The two Hollywood films were scheduled to be released in China in February but were delayed due to the pandemic. A First Farewell, showing the Xinjiang Uygur autonomous regions natural scenery through the perspective of three children, and the documentary Bright Torch, which tells the story of artisans, are the only two new Chinese films released on July , the first day Chinese cinemas in lowrisk areas were allowed to reopen. Sheep Without a Shepherd.Photo provided to China Daily More blockbusters are on their way to flood Chinese theaters in the following weeks. Among them are several Oscar winners, including the satirical fantasy Jojo Rabbit, the biographical drama Ford v Ferrari and World War I epic . More classics will be screened in August, such as director Christopher Nolans scifi film Interstellar and Harry Potter and the Sorcerers Stone, the first movie of the eightinstallment Harry Potter franchise. Audiences will see more new domestic films by the end of summer, once a lucrative boxoffice season. The noir animated flick Mr Miao and the romance The Enigma of Arrival will open on Friday, followed by Wild Grass and Love You Forevertwo romances tailored for Qixi, the Chinese equivalent of Valentines Day, on Aug . According to Imax China,  of its more than  screens had resumed operation by Sunday. The company aims to have  screens open by midAugust. Love You Forever.Photo provided to China Daily Fu Ruoqing, chairman of Huaxia Film, says during an online forum of the ongoing rd Shanghai International Film Festival that the pandemics impact on the global film industry is serious, but the situation is also pushing the industry to seek solutions to lower risks in the future. An annual report on Chinas film and television industry released by Beacon estimates Chinas film industry is suffering a financial loss of about  billion yuan, based on big data analysis of boxoffice growth over the past years. The film industry was in a slowdown mode before COVID, and its annual boxoffice growth in  was estimated to be up only . percent yearonyear, or . billion yuan, without the outbreak. Fu says the crisis has inspired domestic studios to consider more cooperation with streaming sites as a major platform to release movies aside from cinemas. China produces on average around  featurelength drama movies annually, but half of them cant be screened in theaters, he says. Dolittle, starring Robert Downey Jr.Photo provided to China Daily Theater managers usually want to screen blockbusters, making indie and arthouse filmsmost of which have limited budgetsless viable boxoffice contenders, Fu explains, adding that streaming sites can become a good alternative for such films. Motion Picture Association of America China president Feng Wei says at the same forum the development of streaming has helped the global film industry during the pandemic as the gap between theatrical and online release has been reduced, indicating that diversified viewing models will be a trend. Chinas onlinevideo viewers reached  million by March, accounting for . percent of all netizens in the country, according to a report released during the Shanghai Internet Summit. But for movie buffs, the charm of the silver screen will never fade and the experience of sitting in a cinema to watch a film is irreplaceable. A First Farewell.Photo provided to China Daily After the outbreak is completely contained, I believe filmmakers will be able to make films more suitable for being shown on the big screen. Cinemas had disappeared from our lives for more than  days, enabling filmmakers to think more deeply about the unique beauty of cinemas and the special nature of the film medium, director Jia Zhangke says during an online masterclass at the Shanghai film festival.