Online exhibition in Sydney unveils mysterious ShangriLa
2020/7/31 0:00
The British government revealed it has signed a fourth deal for a coronavirus vaccine, securing up to  million doses of an experimental treatment being developed by drug giants GlaxoSmithKline and Sanofi Pasteur. The Department for Business, Energy  Industrial Strategy said human clinical studies of the vaccine will begin in September. It said that if the treatment proves successful, the United Kingdom could begin vaccinating priority groups such as those at increased risk from the disease starting in the summer next year. The government has now signed deals for a total of  million doses, having already signed up for  million doses of the Oxford University vaccine being developed by AstraZeneca, and  million doses of two other promising vaccines being researched by an alliance between the pharmaceutical companies BioNtech and Pfizer as well as the company Valneva. In a statement, Kate Bingham, who chairs the UK governments Vaccines Taskforce, saidThis diversity of vaccine types is important because we do not yet know which, if any, of the different types of vaccine will prove to generate a safe and protective response to COVID. Whilst this agreement is very good news, we mustnt be complacent or overoptimistic. In an interview with the Financial Times published on Wednesday, Bingham dampened hopes of finding a silver bullet that provides lifetime immunity against COVID. The assumption at the moment is that well be shooting to get to a years immunity, said Bingham, who is coordinating the efforts to develop a vaccine in the UK. Even a twodose vaccine might not last very long, she warned. You may need to boost it every year. At minimum, we want to reduce symptoms, we want to stop people from dying. We have to accept thats maybe where well end up. New infections European countries are now grappling with new infections and the problem of travelers moving across the continent for the summer holidays. Lothar Wieler, the head of Germanys public health agency, the Robert Koch Institute, said he is very concerned by rising infections in the country. We are in the middle of a rapidly developing pandemic, he said. Wieler said Germans had become negligent and urged people to wear masks and respect social distancing and hygiene rules. In the past week the country has recorded , new infections. More than two thirds of a group of  migrants rescued in the Mediterranean by the Maltese Coast Guard have tested positive for the novel coronavirus. In tests carried out on arrival,  were found to have COVID. When the pandemic was at its height, Malta closed its ports to all traffic, including rescued migrants. The number of new cases means that Maltas total has shot up to . jonathanmail.chinadailyuk.com ?