Turkey receives . mln more Chinas Sinovac COVID vaccines
2021/8/28 7:47
Workers in Zhangjiajie, Hunan province, perform a safety and sanitation check on an elevator. The popular tourist area is reopening to visitors after a recent COVID outbreak. WU YONGBINGXINHUA Yao Hua from Shenzhen, Guangdong province, entered the main gate to Tianmen Mountain at  am on Friday, becoming the first tourist after the reopening of scenic spots in Zhangjiajie, Hunan province. Staff members of the scenic spot checked her code for a ticket reservation and health codes, and reminded her to keep her mask on at all times during the visit. Yao had been stranded in Zhangjiajie for a month because of the resurgence of COVID. Zhangjiajie is home to the Wulingyuan Scenic and Historic Interest Area, a UNESCO World Heritage Site. I must have a look. Starting from Friday, three scenic spots in Zhangjiajiethe core scenic spots of Wulingyuan, Tianmen Mountain and the Grand Canyonreopened to the public after a resurgence of COVID had been subdued. The renowned tourist city is offering halfprice discounts until Sept  to tourists for all of its Alevel scenic spots and transportation services in the area. Its a way of thanking all sectors of society for supporting the citys contagion prevention and control work, said local authorities. A staff member disinfects the entrance of the Tianmen Mountain scenic spot in preparation for its reopening in Zhangjiajie, Central Chinas Hunan province, Aug , .  The city closed all its tourist sites on July  after reporting one confirmed locally transmitted case of COVID the day before. The measures and other restrictions swiftly curbed the spread of the virus. It has not reported a confirmed infection since Aug . Ding Yunjuan, marketing vicemanager of Tianmen Mountain, said the scenic spot has made full preparations for the reopening. We invited professional workers to thoroughly disinfect public areas on Thursday. All of our staff members have been vaccinated, Ding said. The reopening of all scenic spots in the city is expected to be completed in early September. On Wednesday, Zhangjiajie lifted traffic restrictions. The city is also offering subsidies for flight tickets and is carrying out various promotional activities to jumpstart its tourism market. According to local media reports, the citys airport remains closed, but tickets will be available for flights from the city on Monday. Staff members disinfect the entrance of the Tianmen Mountain scenic spot in preparation for its reopening in Zhangjiajie, Central Chinas Hunan province, Aug , .  The Chinese mainland on Thursday reported two new locally transmitted confirmed COVID cases, one each in Shanghai and Jiangsu province, the National Health Commission said in its daily report on Friday. In Shanghai, a yearold male who handles cargo flights for a foreign airline at Pudong International Airport is the latest confirmed COVID case in the city, authorities announced on Friday. The man, a close contact of a previous case, was put under quarantine on Aug . This is the seventh confirmed case in the latest wave of infections related to the airport, according to Wu Jinglei, director of the Shanghai Municipal Health Commission. Shanghai will improve emergency response capabilities, increase investigation efficiency and optimize prevention and control measures, Wu said. Cao Chen and Zhu Youfang contributed to this story.