CHECs container terminal to boost global trade
2020/7/30 15:14
? NSW police officers speak to drivers hoping to cross from the state of Victoria into New South Wales NSW at a check point after the border was closed in response to a surge in coronavirus disease COVID cases in Victoria, in Albury, New South Wales, Australia, July , .  SYDNEY  Australia recorded its deadliest day of the COVID pandemic so far on Thursday, with  deaths, on top of a record  new infections. The southeastern state of Victoria recorded  of Thursdays positive tests, taking the total number of active cases within the state to over ,. Victorian Premier Daniel Andrews said that wearing a face mask would become mandatory across the state as of midnight Sunday, expanding on rules already in place for capital city, Melbourne. Its inconvenient, its challenging, but ... its something we can do in regional Victoria without causing significant economic cost, but getting a really significant public health benefit, Andrews said. Government officials also imposed bans on gatherings across six highrisk localities in Victoria, prohibiting residents from hosting guests or attending weddings and funerals. Residents are, however, still allowed to attend bars and restaurants, with Andrews explaining that the primary focus and goal of the new restrictions were to stem familytofamily transmissions. I know that it may seem counterintuitive that you can go to the pub but you cant go to your mates place, he said. But ultimately ... the data drives that decision. Thats where the transmission is. Its not in cafes and restaurants, but it is, in small numbers, in peoples homes. One family to another. Meanwhile, Australias most populous city, Sydney was declared a COVID hotspot by Queensland state Premier Annastacia Palaszczuk, barring anyone who has visited the city in the previous two weeks. Unlike Victoria, Sydneys world renowned hospitality venues were at the center of its recent spike in cases, with several newly emerged clusters at eastern suburb eateries. The largest groupings remained  cases linked to a Thai restaurant and  at a pub in the citys west. Health experts have pointed out that Sydneys situation resembles that of Melbourne roughly a month ago, before case numbers quickly spiralled out of control. Queensland Chief Health Officer Jeanette Young warned residents of her state to avoid travelling to Sydney for the time being, with those that do required to quarantine in a hotel for two weeks upon their return. Really reconsider if you need to go anywhere in New South Wales, and particularly dont go to greater Sydney, she said.