Beijing discovers another new COVID case
2020/7/30 9:29
People wearing masks walk in the Central area of Hong Kong, July , .  Citys shortterm outlook cloudy as SAR reveals economy contracted  percent Hong Kongs COVID tally soared to , on Wednesday, as  cases were added to the citys eightday streak of tripledigit new coronavirus infections. Onethird of the total was recorded over the past eight days, while it took the city six months to record its first , infections. Five imported cases and  locally transmitted cases were reported on Wednesday. A yearold woman who died on Wednesday morning became the citys th COVIDlinked fatality. She is believed to have contracted the virus in a medical ward at Queen Elizabeth Hospital, where a cluster of seven patients were infected. Seventeen deaths, or  percent of the total, have been recorded since July , as the citys worst wave of COVID outbreak, which began earlier this month, hit multiple elderly care homes and public housing estates. Four more residents and two more workers at an elderly care home in Tuen Mun were confirmed infected on Wednesday, bringing the total cases in this cluster to , second only to another home in Tsz Wan Shan, where  patients and six deaths were recorded. Clusters also continued to emerge at public hospitals. On Wednesday, four support workers at Princess Margaret Hospital preliminarily tested positive for the virus, three of whom had worked in the same ward. Health authorities said about  others in the city have also preliminarily tested positive. Meanwhile, a hotline service will be launched for COVID patients awaiting hospital admission. So far, about  patients have been transferred to secondtier facilities since the occupancy rate of isolation wards has approached  percent, nearing capacity. To ease the pressure on isolation beds, the AsiaWorldExpoan exhibition center being converted into a community treatment facilityis expected to admit stable patients as early as Saturday. The newly confirmed cases also included  people who were diagnosed with the disease after gatherings with friends. The report of these cases came on the same day that the citys strictest social distancing rules to date took effect, including a blanket ban on dining in restaurants. Recession continues Also on Wednesday, the government revealed that Hong Kongs economy contracted  percent yearonyear in the second quarter of worse than estimated amid the COVID pandemic. In a statement, a government spokesman said the recent resurgence in coronavirus cases has clouded the nearterm outlook for the citys economy. Local consumption activities were severely disrupted by the threat of COVID and social distancing requirements throughout the quarter, while outbound tourism came to a halt amid stringent travel restrictions, the spokesman said. Perry Yiu Pakleung, deputy chairman of China Travel Service, told China Daily that the citys battered tourism sector was preparing local tours for local people, which were encouraged and subsidized by the government, but the outbreaks resurgence has interrupted all their efforts. Having no business at the moment, many travel agencies are facing the threat of bankruptcy despite government relief, Yiu said. We really hope the central government can give us a helping hand once the pandemic is gone. Eleanor Huang contributed to this story.