Turkey receives more Chinese COVID vaccines
2021/8/27 16:03
Staff members disinfect public areas at Tianmen Mountain scenic spot in Zhangjiajie, Hunan province, on Friday. Photo by Shao YingFor chinadaily.com.cn Three scenic spots in Zhangjiajie, Hunan province  including the core scenic spots of Wulingyuan, Tianmen Mountain and the Grand Canyon  reopened to the public on Friday, local authorities said. The renowned tourist city is offering halfprice discounts until Sept  to tourists from all over the country for all of its Alevel scenic spots and transportation services. Its a way of thanking all sectors of society for supporting the citys epidemic prevention and control work. Zhangjiajie closed all its tourist sites on July  after reporting one confirmed locally transmitted case of COVID the day before. The measures swiftly curbed the spread of the virus but also adversely impacted tourism during the summer holiday season. The city lifted traffic restrictions on Wednesday after a resurgence of COVID had been subdued. The city has not reported a confirmed infection since Aug . Staff members disinfect public areas at Tianmen Mountain scenic spot in Zhangjiajie, Hunan province, on Friday. Photo by Shao YingFor chinadaily.com.cn Scenic spots will continue to implement measures for COVID prevention and control, including reservations and crowd flow restrictions. All tourists entering the scenic spots should wear face masks and show their day digital itinerary codes and health codes. All frontline workers at the scenic areas must get vaccinated. Accommodations, catering and other travelrelated services and institutions can resume normal operations if they implement regular epidemic prevention and control measures. Other outdoor and indoor scenic spots in Zhangjiajie will open in succession after the highrisk period has passed. The resumption of all scenic spots is expected to be completed in early September. The city also offers subsidies for flight tickets and is carrying out various promotional activities to jumpstart its tourism market. According to local media reports, the citys airport remains suspended, but tickets will be available for flights from the city on Aug . Zhu Youfang contributed to this story. A staff member works to disinfect the Tianmen Mountain scenic spot in Zhangjiajie, Hunan province, on Friday. Photo by Shao YingFor chinadaily.com.cn A staff member works to disinfect the Tianmen Mountain scenic spot in Zhangjiajie, Hunan province, on Friday. Photo by Shao YingFor chinadaily.com.cn A staff member works to disinfect the Tianmen Mountain scenic spot in Zhangjiajie, Hunan province, on Friday. Photo by Shao YingFor chinadaily.com.cn Staff members disinfect public areas at Tianmen Mountain scenic spot in Zhangjiajie, Hunan province, on Friday. Photo by Shao YingFor chinadaily.com.cn