UK signs vaccine deal with GSK and Sanofi
2020/7/30 5:06
FILE PHOTO A scientist prepares samples during the research and development of a vaccine against the coronavirus disease COVID at a laboratory of BIOCAD biotechnology company in Saint Petersburg, Russia June , .  The British government revealed it has signed a fourth deal for a novel coronavirus vaccine, securing up to  million doses of an experimental treatment being developed by drug giants GlaxoSmithKline and Sanofi Pasteur. The Department for Business, Energy  Industrial Strategy said human clinical studies of the vaccine will begin in September followed by a phase study in December. It said that if the treatment proves successful, the United Kingdom could begin vaccinating priority groups such as those at increased risk from the disease starting summer next year. The government has now signed deals for a total of  million doses, having already signed up for  million doses of the Oxford University vaccine being developed by AstraZeneca, and  million doses of two other promising vaccines being researched by an alliance between the pharmaceutical companies BioNtech and Pfizer as well as the company Valneva. In a released statement, Kate Bingham, who chairs the UK governments Vaccines Taskforce, said This diversity of vaccine types is important because we do not yet know which, if any, of the different types of vaccine will prove to generate a safe and protective response to COVID. Whilst this agreement is very good news, we mustnt be complacent or overoptimistic. In an interview with the Financial Times published on Wednesday, Bingham dampened hopes of finding a silver bullet that provides lifetime immunity against COVID. It was more likely scientists would develop either a vaccine that provides a years immunity or one that only mitigates the symptoms of the virus, she said. The assumption at the moment is that well be shooting to get to a years immunity, said Bingham, who is coordinating the efforts to develop a vaccine in the UK. What Ive been anxious about is that people . . . think well have a silver bullet. Thats probably not going to happen. Even a twodose vaccine might not last very long, she warned. You may need to boost it every year. At minimum, we want to reduce symptoms, we want to stop people from dying. We have to accept thats maybe where well end up. It comes as the UK governments approach to social care during the COVID crisis received heavy criticism by Parliaments own spending watchdog, the Public Accounts Committee. The committees report said elderly residents of care homes were effectively thrown to the wolves during the crisis and accused the government of a host of leadership, accountability and transparency failings. Countries across Europe are now grappling with new infections and the problem of travelers moving across the continent for the summer holidays. The head of Germanys public health agency has said he is very concerned by rising infections in the country. We are in the middle of a rapidly developing pandemic, Lothar Wieler, head of the Robert Koch Institute, told reporters. Wieler said Germans had become negligent and urged people to wear masks and respect social distancing and hygiene rules. In the past week the country has recorded , new infections. More than two thirds of a group of  migrants rescued in the Mediterranean by the Maltese coastguard have tested positive for the novel coronavirus. In tests carried out on arrival,  were found to have COVID. When the pandemic was at its height, Malta closed its ports to all traffic, including rescued migrants. The number of new positive cases means that Maltas total has shot up to .