Beijing reports one new local virus case
2020/7/29 17:30
Visitors watch a performance at the Beijing Aquarium on July . Beijing Aquarium reopened on July . It was temporarily shut on June  after Beijing reported new clusters of COVID cases originating at the Xinfadi wholesale food market. Photo by Zou HongChina Daily Beijing reported one new local case of COVID related to Dalian in Northeast Chinas Liaoning province on Tuesday in the capital, according to the Beijing Municipal Health Commission on Wednesday afternoon. So far, two local cases related to Dalian, which has experienced an outbreak in recent days, have been reported in Beijing. Pang Xinghuo, deputy head of the Beijing Center for Disease Control and Prevention, gave details of the case at a news conference on Wednesday. The patient is a yearold male who is the soninlaw of the previous local case reported on Monday. He was taken to a centralized quarantine site on Monday after his motherinlaw was confirmed as a COVID patient. Then, he was confirmed as a COVID patient on Tuesday after medical observation, with a body temperature of . C and nucleic acid testing result that was positive. Pang reminded residents in the city should continue to wear masks and report symptoms of fever in a timely way. People can make a reservation to receive the tests if they are worried about being infected, she said. By noontime on Wednesday,  residents living in the same building as the two cases got their testing results, with all showing negative outcomes, according to Wu Bin, deputy head of Changping district, where the community is located. Up to , nearby residents had received the tests by noon on Wednesday and , of them got their results  all showing negative, she added. The previous local case involved a yearold woman from East Chinas Anhui province who came to Beijing on July  to visit her daughter. She stayed at her daughters home in Changping district. Contact tracers found that the woman had traveled to Jinzhou in Liaoning on July  by train and had a dinner with an asymptomatic coronavirus carrier surnamed Gao, who came from Dalian. The woman traveled back to Beijing on July  and stayed at her daughters home from July  to . On Friday she was transferred to a centralized quarantine center for observation, and she was confirmed with COVID on Monday.