Iraq approves use of Chinese, British COVID vaccines Israel extends lockdown for  days
2021/8/27 10:48
The downtown stands empty amid the coronavirus disease COVID outbreak in Brattleboro, Vermont, US, April , .  The New England state of Vermont has some of the lowest numbers of coronavirus cases in the nation and highest vaccination rates due to compliance from its residents, say health officials, but it still faces challenges from the spread of the Delta variant. Governor Phil Scott, a Republican, announced that as of Aug , more than . percent of Vermonts population aged  and over has had at least one dose of a COVID vaccine. That is in sharp contrast to Alabama, Wyoming and Mississippi, states with some of the lowest vaccination rates in the country and increasingly high hospitalizations. Vermont is one of just three states in the US not deluged by COVIDcausing hospitalizations. But it has seen a slight increase in breakthrough COVID cases due to the Delta variant, which poses a threat to residents living in the Green Mountain State because at least one in five are elderly  one of the highest elderly populations in the US. The data shows vaccines are preventing cases. Yes, there are socalled breakthrough cases, but that term is misleading. We always knew vaccines werent  percent effective, but they have minimized cases and severity, Scott said on Aug . Between Jan  and Aug , out of , vaccinated people in Vermont,  or . percent have tested positive for COVID. Eighteen of the vaccinated people were hospitalized and eight . percent died. Many of them had chronic conditions, Scott said. On Aug , Vermont health officials reported  new COVID infections there were , in total. Hospitalizations rose to , including nine people now in intensive care. There have been  deaths in the state altogether. While cases have ticked up, its important for Vermonters to remember were not Florida, Louisiana, Mississippi or any other state with significantly lower vaccination rates and significantly higher hospitalizations than Vermont, Scott said. This is clearly a pandemic of the unvaccinated, with nearly all the hospitalizations and deaths among the unvaccinated at this point. Tracy Dolan, deputy commissioner for the state Health Department said that the state had been successful in battling the virus versus other states, because at every stage of the pandemic, residents have been willing to listen to public health guidance. Dolan told China Daily Residents have adapted surprisingly well, particularly the elderly. Public health officials say there is another reason for the states success. It is the second leastpopulated state in America with a population of , and benefits from wide open spaces to stop the spread of the virus. Dolan added We are a rural state and that has helped us, the lower density of population, it doesnt do it by itself, but it helps. Vermont borders Massachusetts to the south and New York to the west, once the epicenter of the US virus. The picturesque state is a tourist magnate and generated . billion from tourism in  before the pandemic, according to the states Agency of Commerce and Community Development. Prior to the pandemic, it had  million tourists per year who took to its hiking trails and mountains to ski, like Mansfield, Killington and Stowe. Dolan also said that early on during the pandemic, the way that information about what precautions residents needed to take  like wearing masks and social distancing  wasnt politicized as a Democratic or Republican issue like in some other states. Instead, Vermonts Republican governor worked with and listened to public health officials, which built public trust. One of the really great things is that it doesnt feel politicized in this state, Dolan said. Being that we have a Republican governor that has been seen as maybe a situation where the governor may not be aligned with the public health approach but in this state thats not what it means. So, people really feel like if people making decisions, they might not agree with them but they know its for political reasons and that is down to trust. Vermont is still following CDC recommendation that the vaccinated and unvaccinated should wear a mask indoors and in areas of high transmission. At the start of the new school year, teachers, students and school staff will have to wear masks for the first two weeks along with children under . Masks wont be mandated on school buses. While it has done well, Vermont hasnt escaped completely unscathed. Last year, half of Vermonts coronavirus cases occurred in assistedliving facilities. But outbreaks were corrected quickly, the health department said. At the height of the pandemic in , its local hospital emergency rooms were hardly used with only one person hospitalized for COVID and one under investigation by doctors.