UK warns of second wave
2020/7/29 9:41
Employees urged to return to work as PM says new lockdown less likely? Britains Prime Minister Boris Johnson speaks to local people at the Canal Side Heritage Centre, after the government announced a new plan to get Britain cycling, amid the outbreak of the coronavirus disease COVID, in Beeston near Nottingham, Britain, July , .  United Kingdom businesses cautiously emerging from the novel coronavirus lockdown that began in March were warned this week they could be back in mothballs, if there is a second wave of the virus that causes COVID. Prime Minister Boris Johnson issued the cautionary observation during a conference call with managers from dozens of enterprises on Monday, ahead of an anticipated ramping up of a return to the workplace for many employees on Saturday. He repeated it to journalists on Tuesday. But Johnson said a second wave would be less devastating than the first, and a full lockdown less likely. One participant of the conference call told the Financial Times newspaper It was clear that there will be more to come this year. Johnsons warning comes as his government prepares to change its advice to employees from work from home if at all possible, to urging of them to return to the workplace if it can be done safely. Downing Street wants more people in the workplace because of the boost it would give the economy, but critics warn it risks a possible second wave of infections. A man wearing a protective mask walks past a Selfridges store at Oxford Street, amid the coronavirus disease COVID outbreak, in London, Britain July , .  Dido Harding, who heads the governments test and trace program, said during a webinar with business leaders this week that the government will aim to snuff out any second wave with localized lockdowns. We are currently in a position where, in the whole country, the prevalence is low and under control and we have to be obsessive when we see cases increasing and spreading locally, she said. The specter of that feared second wave is also haunting the governments of Belgium, France, Germany, and Spain, where infections have been increasing at an alarming rate as lockdowns have eased. Concern about the situation in Spain, where there have been , deaths and at least , infections, led Johnsons government to impose a day quarantine on arrivals in the UK. Spains prime minister, Pedro Sanchez, responded by saying the move was inappropriate in an interview with broadcaster Telecinco because areas that are popular with British tourists are almost infection free. Germanys concern about novel coronavirus infections being imported by returning vacationers has prompted Berlin to make virus tests mandatory for all people entering the country from highrisk areas. The Daily Mail quoted German Health Minister Jens Spahn as saying We must prevent returning travelers from infecting others unnoticed and thus triggering new chains of infection. Last week, Germany had , novel coronavirus cases, up sharply on the , of the week before and the highest weekly total since May. And the fear of a second wave has prompted Belgiums prime minister to roll back that nations exit from lockdown. The Associated Press reports Sophie Wilmes has unveiled drastic social distancing measures that, from next Wednesday, include households limiting their contacts to a total of five people in a week. Our aim is clear avoid another full lockdown, Wilmes said. In contradiction to the UKs Johnson, Wilmes also said people must work from home if at all possible. If we cannot contain the coronavirus, it will be a collective failure, she said. Belgium has had a sharp rise in infections in the past three weeks and a  percent increase in hospital admissions. The nation of only . million people has endured , confirmed cases and almost , deaths. Concerns about international travel have prompted Emirates airline to become the first to offer travelers free COVID insurance. The Dubaibased carrier says payouts will cover medical treatment, hotel quarantines, and even the cost of funerals in an attempt to encourage more travel. A new report from University College London found London bus drivers were . times more likely to die from COVID than an average person between March and May. The Evening Standard newspaper said Transport for London commissioned the review after  London bus drivers died from the disease.