Chinese facial recognition knowhow tapped for Argentinas virus battle
2020/7/29 9:11
BUENOS AIRES, ArgentinaChinese facial recognition technology has become an ally in Argentinas battle against COVID, helping to promote social distancing and the use of face masks, and protecting train passengers by checking commuters for fever before boarding. ? Visitors check their phones behind the screen advertising facial recognition software during Global Mobile Internet Conference GMIC at the National Convention in Beijing, China April , .  Through stateowned company Trenes Argentinos Operaciones, the Argentines transportation ministry recently launched a twoweek pilot program that saw new facilities equipped with such technology installed at turnstile entrances to Buenos Aires main Mitre Line in its commuter train network. This technology has the ability to detect if a person has symptoms of COVID, such as a temperature, and when the screen focuses on them, it can determine if they have a face mask on or not, Mitre Lines manager Ivan Kildoff said. If their temperature isnt right, they wont be able to access the platform area to board the train. The technology supplied by Chinese company Hikvision uses a thermal camera that allows temperature readings from a distance of . meters and, through video analytics, determines whether the person is wearing a face mask. In case of a fever or lack of a mask, the turnstiles wont open. In addition, the technology can alert a monitoring center if someone has a fever and send along their image, so cases can be tracked. After the day trial of the technology, officials aim to expand the system to other commuter lines. If it works well at this station, which has a lot of passengers, it has to work at the others, said Kildoff. The technology is part of a series of health and hygiene measures implemented by the capitals public transit network, which is currently reserved for essential workers. Hikvision operates in more than  countries and employs some , workers worldwide. The company saw its traditional business hurt by pandemic restrictions on mobility, but its sales rebounded as it adapted its technology to meet the challenges of the health crisis. In its battle against the coronavirus, Argentina has also deployed thermal imaging cameras made by Chinese firm Dahua Technology on buses in Buenos Aires. Argentina had reported , infections as of Tuesday, according to a tally kept by Johns Hopkins University in the United States.