Is metal strip in medical masks G antenna?
2020/7/29 8:58
Aerial photo taken on April ,  shows workers working at the construction site of a G base station at Chongqing Hitech Zone in Chongqing, Southwest China.  Rumor The metal strip in medical masks serves as a G antenna. The antenna killer  G antenna killer  thats inside the masks that they are telling everybody to wear, said a video posted on Facebook by Makedah Boyce on June . They tell you to put it on so that you can breathe right above your nostrils, so you can inhale and it can go straight to your brain and begin to destroy, said the narrator, who advised people to make their own masks. Fact The video has been marked by Facebook as false information. According to the World Health Organization WHO and health professionals, the only function of the metal strip is to enhance the protective effect of medical masks. In a WHO video explaining how to wear medical masks, Dr. April Baller, a WHO infection control expert, said Verify which side is the top this is usually where the metal strip is. Baller instructs users how to put on the mask and then adds, Pinch the metal strip so that it moulds to the shape of your nose. In a Bloomberg QuickTake News video, Seto Wing Hong, codirector of the WHO Collaborating Center for Infectious Disease Epidemiology and Control, pointed out the top of the mask and said Now you see this here? This tight, little, thick band here? Its to show you that you should put it on the top. Why? Because once you wear it, then you squeeze it so that it pinches the nose, and then you pull it down. The metal strip in surgical masks allows it to be shaped to form against the wearers nose to help provide a better fit, Reuters quoted spokesperson for M, a company that makes personal protective equipment, as saying. Concerning the health risks from G, the WHO said in February on its website that after much research performed, no adverse health effect has been causally linked with exposure to wireless technologies.