Audiences flock to big screen as cinemas reopen
2020/7/29 0:00
After being closed for more than half a year due to the pandemic, cinemas in Beijings lowrisk areas reopened from July , welcoming back audiences with strict safety measures and classic blockbuster titles. To meet the requirements of local authorities, cinemas must strictly limit audience numbers per screening to  percent of capacity with no adjacent seating. All audience members are required to wear face masks during screenings, register using the QR code health system on their mobile phones and have their temperature taken at the entrance. They must maintain a meter distance between each other, and purchase tickets online with real name registration. To avoid extra contact, the audience must exit through the same door they came in through. Cinemas are not allowed to sell food or beverages, and snacks are prohibited during the movie. Facilities in public areas are disinfected no less than twice a day. ZYED Cinema in Chaoyang district told China Economic Weekly that prior to reopening, it had invited professional teams to disinfect all facilities. In an interview with the Global Times, a manager of a Wanda Media cinema in Shijingshan district said staff members returned to work at the end of June to disinfect the venue for reopening. Moviegoers rejoiced as they were provided with plenty of viewing options including beloved blockbusters Coco, Zootopia and Ne Zha. Foreign films such as Dolittle and Bloodshot made their Chinese premieres on July . To encourage people to enjoy big screens again as soon as possible, many cinemas like those under Wanda Media promoted discounts and premiered films at midnight on July . According to ticketing platform Maoyan, as of  pm on July , the daily box office in Beijing, service fees included, reached , yuan ,. A staff member at ZYED Cinema said the audience was enthusiastic, and many saved ticket stubs to remember the first day of the return. When checking tickets, he found that some had bought tickets online but didnt come to watch. It is maybe a way to show their support, he added. The Beijing Bureau of Culture and Tourism announced on July  that following cinemas, theaters, performing arts venues and karaoke businesses will be gradually allowed to reopen, with epidemic prevention measures and a cap on daily visitors in place. yinruoweichinadaily.com.cn ?