Central govt offers all necessary support for HKs virus fight
2020/7/28 13:48
People wearing masks walk in the Central area of Hong Kong, July , .  HONG KONG  Hong Kong politicians on Saturday said the central government has offered Hong Kong all necessary support in its continuing battle to stem the spread of the severe coronavirus outbreak. Democratic Alliance for the Betterment and Progress DAB of Hong Kong Chairwoman Starry Lee Waiking said that the central government attached great importance to the health of Hong Kong people. It would, therefore, provide all necessary support for the SAR to combat the epidemic, including medical supplies, testing and retrofitting the AsiaWorldExpo into a mobile cabin hospital. Lee and other political heavyweights made the remarks after a meeting with the Liaison Office of the Central Peoples Government for the Special Administrative Region SAR. On Saturday, Hong Kong reported  new coronavirus infections, resetting its singleday record for the fourth time in a row. The citys tally and death toll have risen to , and , respectively. Over  percent of the citys confirmed cases were recorded in the past two weeks. At a media briefing, the DAB and the Federation of Trade Unions FTU said the liaison office pledged to work with the city on measures to contain the latest outbreak as it called on the Hong Kong public to raise awareness and comply with antiepidemic measures. FTU President Stanley Ng Chaupei urged the Hong Kong community to unite against any political agenda and industry prejudice that could delay resources and harm the interests of local residents. Earlier, some local medical groups had issued statements opposing the proposed aid from the Chinese mainland citing differences inpracticing qualifications between Hong Kong and the Mainland. In a rebuke, FTU legislator Alice Mak Meikuen said the central government has sent medical teams to help various countries and regions around the world. It is time to put aside political prejudice and protectionism and prioritize the lives and health of our citizens, she added. Mak said support from the central authorities can alleviate public anxiety and fear in Hong Kong. She noted that the local public health system was under tremendous pressure as some residents reported that they failed to obtain sampling bottles for tests in time, or did not gain hospital admittance on confirmation of infection. DAB legislator Ben Chan Hanpan said that the Hong Kong government should also develop further plans in case the alreadystrained local health system was overwhelmed. For example, the government could ask medical staff from the University of Hong KongShenzhen Hospital to help their Hong Kong counterparts. The Hong Kong government should also work with mainland authorities to introduce a health code certification system that could allow Hong Kong residents living on the mainland to return to the city to vote in the Sept  Legislative Council elections, said Chan.