Countries must do more to fight disease, says WHO
2020/7/28 9:39
? Director General of the World Health Organization WHO Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus attends a news conference on the situation of the coronavirus COVID, in Geneva, Switzerland, February , .  The World Health Organization on Monday called on governments and communities to maintain pressure in the fight against the novel coronavirus as the total number of COVID cases worldwide has doubled in the past six weeks and continues to surge. The WHO reported  million cases and , deaths from COVID around the world up to Monday. Thursday will mark six months since the WHO declared COVID a public health emergency of international concern, the highest level of alarm under international regulation. When the WHO declared the public health emergency, on Jan , there were fewer than  cases outside of China. WHO DirectorGeneral Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said that he will reconvene the emergency committee later this week for a reevaluation. COVID has changed our world. It has brought people, communities and nations together, and driven them apart. It has shown what humans are capable ofboth positively and negatively, he said at a virtual news conference in Geneva. But he emphasized that the fundamental pillars of the response have not changedpolitical leadership, and informing, engaging and listening to communities. He said populations must stick to the basic measures required to suppress transmission and save lives find, isolate, test and care for cases and trace and quarantine their contacts. He advised people to keep distance from others, clean hands, avoid crowded and enclosed areas, and wear a mask where recommended. Where these measures are followed, cases go down. Where theyre not, cases go up, Tedros said. He said countries and communities that have followed this advice have done well, either in preventing largescale outbreaks or in bringing large outbreaks under control, citing New Zealand, Vietnam, China, Germany and Republic of Korea. Tedros said that one of the most fundamental ingredients for stopping this virus is determination, and the willingness to make hard choices to keep ourselves and each other safe. Mike Ryan, executive director of the WHOs Health Emergencies Program, said what is clear is that countries that have implemented control measures have suppressed the virus. The question to ask is how much pressure you have on the virus, he said of countries that are witnessing a new surge of COVID cases. Maria Van Kerkhove, the WHOs COVID technical lead, emphasized that countries have the ability to turn things around because weve seen it happen over and over and over again. Their words come as several European countries tighten measures, after witnessing a resurgence of cases. On Monday, Belgian Prime Minister Sophie Wilmes announced additional restrictions would be implemented to prevent a fullblown second wave, the Brussels Times reported. The situation is rapidly changing in our country. Apart from the infections, the number of hospital admissions and deaths remains under control for the time being, but we know that those figures will come with some delay, Wilmes said. We know that Belgium is not the only one in Europe where the virus is flaring up again, but that the countries around us are also experiencing a resurgence of the virus, she said. Our aim is clear avoid another full lockdown, According to the announcement, from July , and for at least the next four weeks, social bubbles will be reduced to a maximum of five fixed people per household, children under  not included. Stricter rules will be implemented for event gatherings. Wedding crowds will be limited to  people and shopping trips must be completed alone. A pass for free use of trains, which the Belgian government promised its citizens, will be postponed until September. The United States is still the worst hit country in the world. It reported more than  million cases and , deaths from COVID up to Sunday. New daily cases still exceed , and daily deaths more than . The Associated Press reported on Monday that US National Security Advisor Robert OBrien has tested positive for COVID, making him so far the highest ranking US official to test positive.