Blooming lotuses, flourishing tourism
2020/7/28 7:26
People wearing face masks following the coronavirus disease COVID outbreak walk at a shopping mall in Hong Kong, July , .  Hong Kong hit a record singleday high of  new coronavirus cases on Monday, continuing a sixday streak of daily rises of more than , as the government toughened social distancing rules for the third time in the latest outbreak. The new infections included three imported cases and an alltime high of  locally transmitted cases, bringing the citys total to ,. More than  people also tested preliminarily positive, according to the Centre for Health Protection. The latest figures came shortly after Chief Secretary Matthew Cheung Kinchung announced that dining in the citys restaurants will be banned for one week starting Wednesday, as infection clusters continued to expand among diners. Meanwhile, a ban on public gatherings of more than two people will also take effect on Wednesday, along with an expansion of the maskwearing mandate to cover outdoor places. Sports venues and swimming pools will also be shut, adding to a list of closed businesses that includes bars and leisure venues. Although defending the tougher antiepidemic measures, Cheung reiterated the government will not impose a curfewlike lockdown barring residents from leaving their homes because many people have to go out for necessities and such a ban would severely hurt economic activities. Cheung reassured that the central government will spare no efforts to support the citys fight against the current outbreak, including mass virus testing and retrofitting of the AsiaWorldExpo into a temporary hospital with , beds. A spokesman for the Hong Kong and Macao Affairs Office of the State Council said on Monday that the central government is ready to help boost the citys virus testing capacity and build a temporary hospital. The spokesman called on all sectors of Hong Kong society to support and cooperate with authorities from the mainland, so that they can focus on reining in the latest outbreak. A day earlier, a spokesman for the Liaison Office of the Central Peoples Government in the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region dismissed politically driven and shameless rumors that mainland medical teams will send gene samples of Hong Kong people to the mainland and that the diagnosis centers of mainland institutions may spread the epidemic. The Hong Kong government said on Monday it will expand its free virus testing for vulnerable groups to wet market workers, public minibus drivers and residents of Tsz Wan Shan, the hardesthit district in the third wave of the outbreak. The decision was revealed as the city reported its th and th COVIDrelated deaths on Mondaya yearold woman and a yearold man who were residents of Tsz Wan Shan.