The world in photos July  C
2020/7/27 10:58
Here are some of the most striking images taken from around the world over the past week. A gallery security guard stands in front of Wolken Fenster Clouds window by German painter Gerhard Richter during a media preview for Rembrandt to Richter at Sothebys auction house in London, July  .  A man is seen on a boat after his house was flooded, after the flood situation worsened in Munshiganj district, on the outskirts of Dhaka, Bangladesh, July , .  The sevenyearold female panda Ai Bao and its cub are pictured at an amusement park in Yongin, South Korea, July , .  An incoming missile is interrupted by the air defense system of Syria in Damascus, Syria, July , .  A family of a COVID victim attends the funeral in Johannesburg, South Africa, on July , .  The Comet C, or Neowise, is seen behind Ghajn Tuffieha Tower, a th century coastal fortification at Ghajn Tuffieha Bay in Malta on July , . The newly discovered comet is streaking past Earth, providing a stunning nighttime show after buzzing the sun and expanding its tail.  European Commission President Ursula Von Der Leyen, European Council President Charles Michel and European Parliament president DavidMaria Sassoli greet each other with an elbow bump during a plenary session on the conclusions of the extraordinary European Council meeting at the European Parliament in Brussels, Belgium, July , .  Tokyo Metropolitan Government Office building is lit up with the Olympic symbol colors on the day marking the oneyear countdown to the Tokyo  Olympic that have been postponed to  due to the coronavirus disease outbreak, in Tokyo, July , .  ? A woman wearing a face mask reading John Lewis, keep the faith attends the memorial service for late US Congressman John Lewis, a pioneer of the civil rights movement and longtime member of the US House of Representatives who died July , at Troy Universitys Trojan Arena in Troy, Alabama, US, July , .  Brazilian delivery workers for Uber Eats, Rappi and other delivery apps protest as part of a strike to demand better pay and working conditions, amid the coronavirus disease outbreak, in Sao Paulo, Brazil, July , .  A Russian Navy officer stands on the embankment as warships sail during the Navy Day parade in Kronstadt near Saint Petersburg, July , . 