Exercise and a good chair can help you thrive during likely long virus fight
2020/7/26 19:46
Mine workers wearing face masks look on at the end of their shift, amid a nationwide coronavirus disease lockdown, at a SibanyeStillwater mine in Carletonville, South Africa, May , .  Africas total number of confirmed coronavirus cases has surpassed , according to the Africa Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Latest statistics from the Africa CDC indicate that South Africa, which has confirmed , cases,has well over half the reported cases on the continent and ranks fifth globally in the number of infections. On Friday Cyril Ramaphosa, South Africas president,said schools were closing for four weeks to limit the spread of the novel coronavirus, which he described as a storm hitting the country. We have taken a deliberately cautious approach to keep schools closed during a period when the country is expected to experience its greatest increase in infections, Ramaphosa said in a televised address to the nation. The school closing order came a week after South African teacher unions urged authorities to close schools through August. Following a reduction of restrictions initially introduced to curb the spread of the virus, infections are reported to be climbing rapidly in most African countries including Kenya, East Africas economic hub, which has so far reported more than , cases. Last week Cyrus Oguna, Kenyas government spokesman,said he has contracted the coronavirus and is at an isolation facility. According to a statement posted on social media, Oguna said he had developed mild symptoms after returning to the capital, Nairobi, from an assignment. I urge all Kenyans to take this disease seriously and take all the necessary precautions to avoid getting infected, Oguna said. In a joint effort to enhance research and development of traditional medicines for coronavirus in Africa, the World Health Organization and the Africa CDC on July  launched an expert advisory committee to provide independent scientific advice and support to countries on the safety, efficacy and quality of traditional medicine therapies. The member Regional Expert Committee on Traditional Medicine for COVID will support countries in collaborative efforts to conduct clinical trials of traditional medicines in compliance with international standards. By pooling expertise within the continent, the Regional Expert Committee is expected to accelerate the pace and elevate the standards of research, particularly clinical research on new therapies from traditional medicines against the virus. The WHO said that it recognizes that traditional, complementary and alternative medicine has many benefits and Africa has a long history of traditional medicine and practitioners that play an important role in providing care to people. Interest in traditional medicines as potential remedies for COVID is growing in Africa. As the world races to find treatment and vaccines against the virus, research into traditional and orthodox medicines as potential COVID therapy must be grounded in science, and this measure marks an important step in supporting these endeavors, Matshidiso Moeti, WHO regional director for Africa, said. According to John Nkengasong, director of the Africa CDC and WHO Special Envoy on COVID for Africa, commendable efforts are ongoing on the continent to find coronavirus therapies in traditional medicine. He added that rigorous clinical testing to evaluate safety and efficacy will be critical, similar to other areas of medicine. The members of the Regional Expert Committee are mainly from research institutions, national regulatory authorities, traditional medicine programs, public health departments, academia, medical pharmacy professions and civil society organizations of member states. The Africa CDC said that the committee will start working immediately. Developing a master protocol to guide countries in clinical trials for COVID and setting the agenda to support member states will be among the committees initial tasks.