Tokyo counts down again, but not all Japanese counting on Summer Games
2020/7/25 15:00
? A woman wearing a protective face mask walks past a screen showing a countdown of the days to the Tokyo  Olympic Games, on the day to mark the oneyear countdown to the summer games that have been postponed to  due to the coronavirus disease COVID outbreak, in Tokyo, Japan July , .  Its one year out from the  Olympic Games, with Tokyo hitting that mark on Thursdayagain. Few in the host city are in the mood to celebrate as a raging coronavirus pandemic fuels doubts about whether the rescheduled Summer Games will go ahead at all. When Tokyo residents first saw the countdown clock tick over into the final year of an expectant wait, it was a different story. That was before the coronavirus forced the postponement of the Olympics to July , . The decision in March to delay the Gamesalong with the Paralympic Gamescame as the real scale of the pandemic began to emerge and countries imposed lockdowns that threw training into chaos and forced the cancellation of qualifiers and test events. Lockdowns have since eased in many places, but elsewhere the virus continues to rageor authorities are warning of a second wave. Tokyo itself logged a record  new infections on Thursday, with the citys governor asking residents to stay home over a fourday holiday weekend. On July , , when Tokyo was celebrating the yeartogo mark in the original countdown to the Games, fireworks were cascading over Tokyo Bay while celebrities unveiled the athletes medals in a highly choreographed show. This year, organizers produced a minute, nofans event inside the national stadium that was renovated for the Games. The lowkey event on a rainy day captured the local mood. A poll carried out days earlier by Kyodo News found that the Japanese are lukewarm at best on the Games, and many doubt they will even go ahead. The poll showed that . percent favored holding the Olympics, . percent said they should be postponed again, and . percent said the event should be canceled. But the city organizers and the International Olympic Committee have ruled out another postponement. The Tokyo Games would be canceled this time if they cant be held. Estimates in Japan suggest the postponement will cost  billion to  billion. The IOC and the organizers acknowledge the massive costs but say its too early to give a number. Wang Xingyu, an associate professor at the School of International Relations at Renmin University of China, said the Japanese government wants to use the Games to revive the countrys economy, boost solidarity among its people and build a positive international image. Japan is facing the dilemma of insufficient foreign trade and domestic demand, and greatly needs a stimulus similar to the  Tokyo Olympics. Abenomics hopes to use the Olympics as leverage to boost the countrys tourism, manufacturing and service industries, the academic said in referring to policies advocated by Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe. Thomas Bach, the International Olympic Committee president, said that the Tokyo Games will be a symbol of hope for the world. This Olympic Games in Tokyo in  can, should and will be the light at the end of the tunnel.... At the end of this very difficult period for humankind, Bach said. Agencies contributed to this story. ? ?