Hong Kong SAR sets daily record for COVID cases
2020/7/25 10:37
Wearing face masks, people?walk through a zebra crossing in Hong Kong, on July , .  Hong Kong reported  newly confirmed novel coronavirus cases on Friday, setting its alltime daily high for the third day running, as health authorities warned that the citys medical system was reaching a tipping point. Friday also saw another elderly patient become the special administrative regions th COVIDrelated fatality. The newly confirmed cases also include a record number of  locally transmitted cases, with the infection sources of  yet to be determined, said Chuang Shukkwan, head of the Communicable Disease Branch at the Centre for Health Protection. The citys overall case tally stood at ,, but Chuang added that there were another  preliminary cases pending further tests. The newest cases came after the city saw  and  cases on Wednesday and Thursday, respectively, a continuation of a third local outbreak that has stretched the citys public health system nearly to capacity. Testing capacity, quarantine facilities and hospital capacity are reaching the limit. If this trend continues, its very difficult for us to handle matters, Chuang said. As of Friday, over  percent of isolation beds at the citys public hospitals were occupied. During a videoconference led by the National Health Commission on Friday, about  health experts from the mainland, Hong Kong and Macao discussed how to build and manage a large makeshift hospital to accommodate COVID patients and how to conduct mass virus testing and manage community health. Yu Yanhong, a member of the National Health Commission Party Leadership Group, said during the meeting that the mainland will support the HKSAR government in order to rein in the recent resurgence. A potential site for this makeshift hospital could be Asia WorldExpo, as Hong Kongs health authorities are already converting the exhibition center into a massive isolation facility for patients. About  beds, with another  to  reserved for future expansion, are said to be provided as a community treatment center and a temporary quarantine center for elderly residents of nursing homes. On Friday, a yearold man died of COVID at United Christian Hospital. He was a resident at Kong Tai Care for the Aged Centre before being hospitalized on July . He was the fourth resident to have succumbed to the disease from the elderly care home in Tsz Wan Shan. The home is associated with the citys largest infection cluster in the latest outbreak which began in early July, with  residents, employees and family members infected. The pathogen continued to spread at other eldercare centers. A resident at the Salvation Army Lung Hang Residence for Senior Citizens in Tai Wai was confirmed infected on Friday, with another two residents testing preliminarily positive for the contagion. A cleaner and a chef at the facility also tested positive. About  residents were evacuated and transferred to a quarantine facility on Friday afternoon. Despite the worrying rise in local transmissions, Executive Councilor Lam Chingchoi told China Daily that the government hasnt considered a lockdown order banning residents from leaving their homes. The doctor said the government believes social distancing rules previously introduced will work, but a few more days are needed to see a drop in the infection numbers due to the diseases incubation period. Gabriel Leung Cheukwai, dean of the University of Hong Kongs Faculty of Medicine, said at a news conference on Thursday that he expects the daily count of new cases to peak in two weeks. Wang Xiaoyu contributed to this story.