Fresh spikes bring more clamps
2020/7/25 0:00
The coronavirus pandemic hit grim new milestones on Thursday, with cases topping  million in the United States and  million in Europe as fresh spikes from Belgium to Tokyo to Melbourne forced new restrictions on citizens. While the European Unions lawmakers combed through a huge aid package for their economies, the United Nations called for a basic income for the worlds poorest to help slow the spread of COVID. The United States, the country hit hardest by the virus, added  million cases in just under two weeks, Johns Hopkins University reported on Thursday night. In the previous  hours alone, the country notched more than , new cases. Having recorded more than , total fatalities, the United States has seen a coronavirus surge, particularly in southern and western states, as Texas, California, Alabama, Idaho and Florida all announced record oneday death tolls. On the economic front, initial jobless claims rose for the first time in about four months as some states delayed or reversed reopening their economies amid the surge in infections, the US Labor Department said on Thursday. Firsttime jobless claims increased , for the week ended on July  from the previous week to . millionthe th consecutive week the total has been above  million. Economists surveyed by Dow Jones expected . million initial unemployment claims to be filed. Against a backdrop of mass unemployment and sagging approval ratings, US President Donald Trump announced he was scrapping next months Republican nominating convention in Florida, stating that it was not the right time to hold a big, crowded event. Across the Atlantic, Europe now accounts for a fifth of the worlds more than  million cases and remains the hardest hit region in terms of deaths, with , out of , worldwide. Giant recovery plan A billioneuro  billion postcoronavirus recovery plan was hammered out at an EU conference this past week, where fiscally rigid nations butted heads with hardhit countries like Spain and Italy that have called for huge aid grants. European Council President Charles Michel said the total stimulus would eventually reach . trillion euros. This moment, its my conviction, is pivotal in European history. We acted fast and with urgency, Michel told the blocs parliament in Brussels. Meanwhile, the UN warned that the worlds poorest also need help. Funding of  billion per month would provide . billion people with a temporary basic income and the means to buy food and pay for health and education expenses, the UN Development Programme said. Bailouts and recovery plans cannot only focus on big markets and big business, said Achim Steiner, a senior UNDP official. UN projections have warned the virus could kill . million people in  lowincome countries. Potential risks There were signs the virus can quickly reemerge when lockdown measures are lifted. Australia, Belgium and the Japanese capital Tokyo all had early successes in containing outbreaks but are now facing an upsurge, prompting new restrictions. Anyone venturing out in Australias secondbiggest city Melbourne will have to wear a mask. The same will be true in Belgiums outdoor markets and busy areas from Saturday. These measures are not advice they are orders, Belgian Prime Minister Sophie Wilmes said. In France, while the number of foreign tourists in Paristhe worlds most visited cityhas dwindled during a twomonth lockdown, there has been a noticeable increase in homegrown visitors. Most clients are clearly French, with lots of families, said a spokesman for catering firm Sodexo, adding that the chic Jules Verne restaurant on the Eiffel Tower was booked solid every night in July. And in India, the death toll from the virus overtook Frances on Friday with , fatalities and nearly , new cases overnight, official data showed. The toll is the sixthbiggest behind those of the US, Brazil, Britain, Mexico and Italy, according to an Agence FrancePresse tally. India has the thirdhighest caseload with almost . million infections. Agencies, Scott Reeves in New York and Xinhua contributed to this story. ? Teddy bears are set at tables as part of measures by a restaurant to maintain social distancing with the start of a gradual reopening of commercial activities in Mexico City on Thursday. EDGARD GARRIDOREUTERS ? ?