Xi inspects enterprises in Shanxi
2020/7/24 13:12
People wearing face masks following the coronavirus disease COVID outbreak walk at a shopping mall in Hong Kong, July , .  Hong Kong saw a record daily number of  new coronavirus cases on Thursday  also the first time the city has seen backtoback days of tripledigit new infections  as health officials warned the escalating trend is not yet over. Continuing the alarming third wave of the local COVID outbreak, Thursdays new infections included a record high of  locally transmitted cases, more than  of which could not be traced, said Chuang Shukkwan, head of the Communicable Disease Branch of the Centre for Health Protection, at a daily COVID briefing. The latest figures came after the city reported  infections on Wednesday. Hong Kongs overall case tally now stands at ,. Chuang said about  other patients tested preliminarily positive on Thursday. The citys th coronavirusrelated fatality was also reported after a yearold man died at Queen Elizabeth Hospital on Thursday. The patient, who had a history of chronic illness, was hospitalized on July . The Hospital Authority said  patients were in critical condition. According to Chuang, the new patients included at least six people with ties to several restaurants in Tsz Wan Shan, the citys hardesthit neighborhood in the latest outbreak. From July ,  local cases were confirmed, as clusters continued to expand at restaurants, hospitals and elderlycare centers. Warning that the community outbreak may continue to escalate, Undersecretary for Food and Health Chui Takyi urged the public, especially senior residents and those with health problems, to stay at home as much as possible to ease the pressure on the citys public hospitals. Starting Friday, Lei Yue Mun Park and Holiday Village in Chai Wan will be used to treat COVID patients who are under  and in stable condition. The resort used to be one of the quarantine centers to accommodate close contacts of confirmed COVID patients and inbound travelers from highrisk areas. The Hospital Authority said the site can provide up to  units to ease the strain on public hospitals secondtier isolation wards. The first batch of  stable patients are expected to be taken to the resort on Friday. As of Thursday, nearly  percent of isolation beds had been used, close to a breaking point at  percent, as the authority said  percent of the slots should be reserved for emergencies. Meanwhile, the Hong Kong government hasnt ruled out applying more stringent social distancing rules if the local outbreak continues to worsen. The workfromhome arrangement for civil servants was extended to Aug , according to an announcement on Thursday shortly before an immigration officer and a police officer were found to be infected. The government will provide only essential and emergency services during this period. Speaking on a public radio program on Thursday, Secretary for Food and Health Sophia Chan Siuchee said if the situation does not improve, the government may impose a blanket ban on dinein service at restaurants and require people to wear face masks in more places other than indoor public venues and transportation interchanges.