Adjusting mix for higher exports
2020/7/24 11:20
Fairfax County Public Schools assistant director of facilities management Todd Jones stands in a classroom where desks have been spaced to prevent the spread of the coronavirus disease COVID at Mantua Elementary School in Fairfax, Virginia, US, on July , .  US President Donald Trump said he is comfortable with sending his son Barron and his grandchildren to school in the fall, and VicePresident Mike Pence said he wouldnt hesitate to send his own children back to the classroom if they were still schoolaged, despite the rise in novel coronavirus infections in many parts of the country. But the vast majority of Americans say they wouldnt send their children back to the classroom, according to a poll released Thursday by The Associated Press and the NORC Center for Public Affairs at the University of Chicago. Roughly  in  say that teaching children in classrooms shouldnt happen at all. A majority of respondents,  percent, say they are very or extremely concerned that reopening schools will lead to additional infections in their communities  percent are somewhat concerned. Only about  in  believe daycare centers, preschools or K schools should open this fall without restrictions, according to the poll, but most respondents believe mask requirements and other safety measures are necessary to restart inperson instruction. The poll of , adults was conducted July . The sampling margin of error for all respondents was plus or minus . percentage points. Trump said Wednesday that I would like to see the schools open and that he would be comfortable with his son and grandchildren in school this fall. But on Thursday it was announced that the private school in Potomac, Maryland, attended by his yearold son wont fully reopen in September out of virus concerns. We know to open up America again we need to open up Americas schools, but its also right on the facts, said Pence during a discussion Tuesday in South Carolina with state leaders about reopening. Pence said the risk to children of getting COVID is low while there are real costs to students not being in the classroom. The Pences have three adult children. Many of the nations largest school districts  including New York and Los Angeles  have announced that they will be entirely virtual in the fall or use a hybrid model that has children in classrooms only a couple of days a week. On Wednesday, the public school system in Washington states King County, which includes Seattle, said it is scrapping plans to bring students back into school buildings in the fall and that classes will be held remotely. The decision cited current countywide virus transmission rates as a factor in the decision. The plans affect more than , children. Trump sees the reopening of schools this fall as central to Americas economic recovery and getting parents back to work. The Trump administration has also argued that it isnt just about academics. Students need access to meal programs and mental health services, it said. The nations , school districts are all under local control. To entice them to open, the White House is pushing Congress to tie tens of billions of dollars in the next relief act to new federal aid to schools that restart inperson education, despite an increase in coronavirus cases in many states. Senate Republicans are proposing  billion for K schools as part of the pandemic relief package, and Senator Roy Blunt, a Missouri Republican, said half of that would be reserved for schools that are going back to a traditional school setting as opposed to distancelearning only. He said that is because operating in person creates new expenses. The APNORC poll finds  percent of Americans say K schools should open for normal inperson instruction. Fourteen percent think they can reopen with minor adjustments, while  percent says major adjustments are needed. Another  percent think instruction should not be in person this fall. Its little different among the parents of schoolage children. The poll also shows Americans feel the same about colleges and universities reopening this fall. The poll finds about half of parents saying they are at least somewhat concerned about their child losing services like school lunches or counseling because of the pandemic. More say they are worried about their child falling behind academically  percent are very concerned, with another  percent somewhat concerned. A majority of parents,  percent, are at least somewhat concerned about their own ability to juggle responsibilities. The polls respondents showed little confidence in Trumps handling of education issues. Only  percent say they approve of Trumps performance, while  percent disapprove.