Latest on the novel coronavirus outbreak
2020/7/24 9:34
Houston Rockets guard Russell Westbrook  passes the ball against the Minnesota Timberwolves in the second quarter at Toyota Centerin Houston, US on March , .  Some signature sights and sounds helping players feel more at home LAKE BUENA VISTA, FloridaMichael Baiamonte was not at Walt Disney World on Wednesday. The publicaddress announcer for the Miami Heat wasnt in the building for the teams seasonrestart scrimmage debut. His voice was. The sound of him bellowing one of his signature phrasesStand up and make some noise!bounced through the arena on Wednesday night during a thirdquarter stoppage in play, a bit of a peculiar thing because there were no fans there to actually coax into rising from their chairs. Welcome to Pandemic Basketball. The NBA rolled out what game operations in a bubble will look like, with the first four of  scrimmages being played. The scrimmagesexhibitions, some call themwill continue through July , two days before the restart of the regular season in the form of seeding games that will determine who has what seed for the playoffs. The games are the games, Los Angeles Clippers coach Doc Rivers said. Once you get in between the lines, you can make a case, thats probably as comfortable as the players will ever be or as normal as everything will ever be. Because once they get between the lines, its a basketball game. Rivers and the Clippers were the NBAs first winners of a game played during a pandemic, after downing Orlando  in an arena that held about  peopleplayers, team staff and NBA employees included. Denver beat Washington ,New Orleans eased past Brooklyn  and in the finale Miami topped Sacramento . I told Doc, I thought it was much more comfortable than I thought it would be, Magic coach Steve Clifford said. I think that the teams that can adapt to playing in a unique, kind of different environment without all the fans, whoever can get the right mindset and concentrate on just playing will have a big advantage. There were some new twists. Ballboys were setting up chairs for teams during timeouts because ones in the bench area must not be moved, and every player had a drinks cart just for him marked at his assigned seat. And while some players participated in handshakes, some people on the court declinedwhen Magic guard Michael CarterWilliams offered a fistbump greeting to referee Jacyn Goble, no reciprocal offer came. For me, its just basketball, New Orleans guard ETwaun Moore said.Its kind of easy to play that. Its like playing your whole life, playing outside, playing in gyms with nobody there, open gym. So it was just fun to go out there and just hoop. Part of the setup here calls for the designated home teams, like the Heat were on Wednesday, to get some homegame comforts. So they wore white uniforms, had their Heat logo on the video boards, listened to their theme song Seven Nation Army blasting through the speakers as they would at home, and even got to hear Baiamonte. At the end, The Heat Is Onanother afterwin treat at homeplayed as they walked off. The production felt like a big event, Heat coach Erik Spoelstra said. I thought it was terrific. I really did. Sharp shooting Shooting on Day  wasnt as rusty as some might expect. The four games on Wednesday saw teams shoot  percent from the field,  percent from point range and  percent from the foul line. For the regular season, the NBA was collectively at  percent from the floor,  percent from point range and  percent from the line. ? New Orleans Pelicans forward Zion Williamson  in action against the Minnesota Timberwolves at Target Center in Minneapolis, Minnesota, US?on March , .  Zion nears return Zion Williamson could still make the seasons reopening night. The Pelicans said on Wednesday that Williamson, who left the NBA bubble last week for a family matter, is being tested daily for the coronavirus and continues showing negative results. If that continues, Williamson may have to quarantine for only four days when he returns to the team. And if that return comes in the next few days, that means he could still have a shot of playing when New Orleans faces the Utah Jazz on July  in the first of the  seeding games at Disney. While there is no current timetable for his return to campus, he fully intends to rejoin the team, the Pelicans said in a statement. Per NBA protocol, his quarantine period will be determined upon his return. The minimum quarantine Williamson would have to serve for leaving, even though he was officially excused, is the fourday option. The former Duke star has played in  games this season, averaging . points and . rebounds. He also missed the actual opening night of the season, when New Orleans played in Toronto against the reigning champion Raptors. Westbrooks message Houston guard Russell Westbrook, whose arrival in Florida was delayed after he tested positive for the coronavirus, arrived on Monday and got on the practice floor with his team for the first time Wednesday. Its unclear if he will play in Houstons first scrimmage at Disney on Friday. But he had a message to fans about how seriously they should take the coronavirus. Im not a doctor nor a specialist, but I do know that its definitely something to take very seriously, Westbrook said. Wearing a mask can be between life or death, honestly.... People are dying from this virus each and every day, and its something that we all need to take very, very seriously. Westbrook said the worst of his symptoms was nasal congestion. Tall order The shorthanded Denver Nuggets went with a tall starting lineup in their exhibition opener against Washington. Really, really tall. The breakdown foot Nikola Jokic at point guard,  Jerami Grant at shooting guard,  Bol Bol at strong forward,  Paul Millsap at power forward and  Mason Plumlee in the middle. Might have been the biggest lineup in NBA history, Nuggets coach Michael Malone said. Malone didnt have much of a choice. He held out Will Barton III and Jamal Murray for precautionary reasons. He didnt have Torrey Craig or Gary Harris, who just recently arrived into the bubble. But reinforcements will soon arrive with Michael Porter Jr. on his way to Florida. Give our guys a lot of credit, Malone said. We had a lot of guys step in and play positions that arent their natural, comfortable positions. Rookie Bol had  points and  rebounds in  minutes. He didnt play in a regularseason game and missed most of the year with a left foot injury. Im very impressed, said Troy Daniels, who was one of the few actual guards the Nuggets had available and led the team with  points. He has a lot of potential. ASSOCIATED PRESS