Crossborder ecommerce can put economy back on track, expert says
2020/7/23 16:51
Rita Fan Hsu Laitai, a former president of Hong Kongs Legislative Council, talks about the National Security Law with China Daily on Tuesday. PARKER ZHENG  CHINA DAILY Ending separatist activities under the new National Security Law will require that the court impose strong sentences for convictions, said Rita Fan Hsu Laitai, a former president of Hong Kongs Legislative Council. The law, which came into effect on June , has delivered a strong deterrent effect, but it will take a hefty penalty by the court to make the separatism activities disappear, she said. In a oneonone interview with China Daily, Fan, who is also a former member of the Standing Committee of the National Peoples Congress, said that shortly before the law was passed, many ringleaders in the opposition camp have either retired or severed ties from separatism, with some even saying they had never supported Hong Kong independence. We notice that many people are frightened by the passage of the National Security Law and they have stepped back, she said. Although there were still many protesters taking to the streets on July  without police permission, the scale was much smaller than before. There would have been more and more people on that day if the National Security Law was not in force. Fan said she doubts that opposition leaders like Martin Lee Chuming and Anson Chan Fang Onsang are truly repentant and will turn over a new leaf. People in the opposition camp are often very swinging, she said. We will also have to wait and see whether many people are charged with national security offenses, get convicted and if the sentences are sufficiently severe. If the suspected persons are discharged or are handed only very light sentences, the power of the National Security Law will be weakened, prompting people in the opposition camp to become bold again and return to their proindependence stances, she pointed out. In her view, people who demonstrated separatist banners and slogans and waved foreign flags may have committed the offense of secession, particularly a motorcyclist who hoisted a separatist flag and drove into several policemen, injuring them and himself. The man was arrested and charged with secession and terrorism offenses. She added that the implementation of national security legislation in Hong Kong is necessary to put an end to proindependence activities and the black violence stemming from illegal protests against the nowwithdrawn extradition bill. She also blasted the opposition camp for holding unauthorized assemblies on July  in defiance of police disapproval and organizing a socalled primary election on July  and , attracting a huge number people coming together amidst the coronavirus pandemic. The number of confirmed cases was dropping in late June and early July, but is now rising steeply again, Fan said. If the number of confirmed cases goes up further, the government may be forced to step up socialdistancing measures by prohibiting people from leaving home. Given an incubation period of seven to  days, the drastic rise in the number of confirmed COVID cases coincides with the days when huge crowds were coming together. According to official record, the number of cases started to build up from a few imported cases to reaching triple digits and hitting  cases on Sunday for the first time on a single day. The record was broken again on Wednesday, when Hong Kong recorded  infections. On the same day, the government announced mandatory wearing of masks in all public indoor venues, bus terminuses and transit areas of public transport.