Manufacturing PMI edges down in April
2020/7/23 16:49
Insignia Hair Salon stylist Regina Muslimova cleans her station after giving a haircut in the parking lot behind her salon on July ,  in Walnut Creek, California.  LOS ANGELES  California Governor Gavin Newsom announced on Wednesday a new contract with Chinas BYD Company to produce  million N respirators and  million surgical masks as the number of confirmed cases in the state has surpassed New York for the most in the United States. The new contract is worth  million. California will pay BYD . per N respirator and  cents per surgical mask, according to the new contract released by the governors office. Newsom confirmed Wednesday in a news briefing that around  million N respirators and  million surgical masks have arrived as part of the original contract with BYD. Newsoms administration has reportedly agreed a contract with BYD to buy  million masks. The bridge contract signed with BYD will ensure California can provide PPE to its frontline workforce during the ongoing global pandemic at a competitive price and with an established and reliable partner, Newsom said in a statement. Providing frontline workers the protective equipment they need is critical to our states response to COVID, the governor said, adding that securing a reliable supply chain of PPE allows us to distribute millions of protective masks to our essential workforce while preserving millions more in our states stockpile for future use. To date, California has distributed . million N respirators and  million surgical masks to Californians working on the front line against COVID, including to hospitals, emergency responders, farm and factory workers and nursing home workers, according to the governor. Newsom has directed the states Department of Public Health and Office of Emergency Services to further increase the states strategic stockpile to  million N respirators and  million surgical masks by early fall to account for the potential need given the recent rise in COVID cases, according to the statement. On Wednesday, California reported a record , new COVID cases, taking its total cases to ,. The state now has the largest number of cases in the country, surpassing New York State. California public health officials also confirmed  new COVID deaths in a daily update on Wednesday. So far, a total of , deaths have been registered across the state. The sevenday average number of new cases is now , per day, with the average from the week prior being ,, according to the California Department of Public Health. US President Donald Trump tweeted on Tuesday that wearing a face mask when not able to socially distance is Patriotic, a Uturn on his previous attitude toward masks. Despite the presidents new stance, many netizens continue to oppose maskwearing, with one commenting, The mandating of a face mask is wrong, it should be a choice!