Free trade zones buoy work restarts of firms
2020/7/23 16:42
? People wearing protective masks and gloves walk in the streets in Venice, Italy, April , .  ROME  The earliest coronavirus strains spreading in Italys Lombardy region did not come directly from China, according to a new study. After analyzing more than  blood samples of COVID patients from Lombardy between February and April, researchers found that the variant of the virus is observed frequently in European countries, such as the Netherlands, Switzerland and France, but seldom observed in China, said a nonpeerreviewed paper published Monday on medRxiv.org, a preprint server for health sciences. Italy was the first country in the world that suspended all flights from China after its outbreak of COVID in December last year. But the genome sequencing suggested a transmission chain not directly involving China, researchers led by Professor Carlo Federico Perno of Milan University said in the paper. The researchers analyzed the whole genome sequencing of  samples collected from  patients with varying disease symptoms, ranging from mild to severe, residing in all  provinces of Lombardy, which has reported more than a third of COVID cases in Italy. They found the strains belong to two separate lineages, each playing a dominant role in some provinces, but they did not contain viral strains isolated in the first months of the outbreak in China. There could have been multiple introductions of the coronavirus to the Lombardy region, said these researchers, adding that these strains formed relatively isolated clusters in different areas. The viruses may have come from Central Europe, where strains with similar mutations had been detected, according to the study. The paper suggested that these strains may have entered Italy in the second half of January, one month before the first COVID case was found in Codogno, Lombardy on Feb . According to a report by Sputnik also released on Monday, Skolkovo Institute of Science and Technology Skoltech found that there were at least  coronavirus strains spreading in different Russian cities between late February and early March. After analyzing the genome sequencing of collected samples, the researchers found that the viruses causing COVID outbreak in Russia were mainly from Europe instead of China, Skoltech said to Sputnik.