ShanghaiTaipei City Forum kicks off
2020/7/23 14:13
? Thomas Bach, President of the International Olympic Committee IOC attends a meeting of IOCs executive board, as the spread of the coronavirus disease COVID continues, in Lausanne, Switzerland, July , .  Thomas Bach, the International Olympic Committee IOC president, said on Wednesday that the Tokyo  Games will be a symbol of hope for the world. He was speaking in a video message released one day before the postponed Games oneyear countdown to be marked by a series of activities on Thursday. This milestone of the one year to go is a very significant one, for sport but also for the worldwide society, Bach said. This Olympic Games Tokyo  in  can, should and will be the light at the end of the tunnel that all humankind is in at this moment we are living in a period of great uncertainty. Then at the end of this very difficult period for humankind, the Olympic Games can be a great symbol of hope, of optimism, of solidarity and unity in all our diversity. A video message will be delivered from the Olympic Stadium on Thursday C the same date July  and time  p.m. local as the opening ceremony of the Games in . Olympic athletes Simone Biles and Nathan Adrian from the United States and Uchimura Kohei and Murakami Mai from Japan will chat with fans live on the Olympic Instagram account before the video message delivery as part of the celebratory activities. Tokyo  preparing to deliver Games with COVID Visitors wearing protective face masks pose for a photo through the Olympic rings in front of the National Stadium, a day before the start of the oneyear countdown to the Tokyo Olympics that have been postponed to  due to the coronavirus disease COVID outbreak, in Tokyo, Japan July , .  The Games were pushed back for a year because of the COVID pandemic but questions remain about what can be done to contain the virus in order to ensure smooth preparations leading up to the new start date. In response to what steps the IOC and the local organizers have taken to manage COVIDs impact on the Games, Bach said, This is a mammoth task because we cannot prepare the Olympic Games as we are used to. In fact, we have to prepare for multiple scenarios for the Olympic Games. So there was established one principle for all and this is a top priority C that the Olympic Games will respect and safeguard the health of all the participants So, we want to prepare these Games and adapt it to the circumstances of the crisis at the time, while ensuring for everybody the Olympic spirit. On Tuesday, Tokyo  organizing committee chief executive Toshiro Muto, said they are preparing to host the Games next year even if the global coronavirus pandemic hasnt eased substantially. It is rather difficult for us to expect that the coronavirus pandemic is contained, said Muto. But if we can deliver the Games in Tokyo with coronavirus, Tokyo can be the role model for the next Olympic Games or other various international events.