The CPC Its Mission and Contributions
2021/8/27 0:00
Editors Note The Publicity Department of the Communist Party of China CPC Central Committee on Thursday released a key publication titled The CPC Its Mission and Contributions. Full text below Contents Preamble I. Serving the People Wholeheartedly . Putting the People First . From Victory to Victory with the People . The People as Masters of the Country . A Good Life for the People II. Realizing the Ideals of the Party . Upholding Marxism . Firm Ideals and Convictions . Breaking New Ground . Defusing Risks and Overcoming Challenges III. Robust Leadership and Strong Governance . A Strong Central Committee . Sound Guidelines and Strategies . Effective Implementation of Decisions and Plans . Pooling the Efforts of All Sectors . Fostering HighCaliber Party Officials IV. Maintaining Vigor and Vitality . Upholding IntraParty Democracy . Correcting Mistakes . Protecting the Partys Health . Promoting Study and Review V. Contributing to World Peace and Development . Safeguarding World Peace . Pursuing Common Development . Following the Path of Peaceful Development . Building a Global Community of Shared Future Conclusion Preamble The Communist Party of China CPC, founded in , has just celebrated its centenary. These hundred years have been a period of dramatic changeenormous productive forces unleashed, social transformation unprecedented in scale, and huge advances in human civilization. On the other hand, humanity has been afflicted by devastating wars and suffering. These hundred years have also witnessed profound and transformative change in China. And it is the CPC that has made this change possible. The Chinese nation is a great nation. With a history dating back more than , years, China has made an indelible contribution to human civilization. After the Opium War of , however, China found itself plunged into a semifeudal and semicolonial society. It endured intense humiliation, its people were pushed into darkness, and the ancient Chinese civilization lost its way. The Chinese people fought with indomitable spirit against repeated setbacks to save the nation from subjugation. The salvoes of Russias October Revolution in  sent MarxismLeninism to China, and the CPC came into being. The Chinese people were awakened, and a torch was lit for the rejuvenation of the Chinese nation. The founding of the CPC was an epochmaking event which profoundly changed the course of Chinas history, delivered a new future for the Chinese people and nation, and had an enormous impact on the rest of the world. During its endeavors over the past century, the CPC has developed a great spirit and carried it forwardupholding truth and ideals, staying true to its founding mission, fighting without fear of danger, and meeting the peoples expectations. This spirit has continuously inspired the CPC to forge ahead. As a Marxist party, the CPC, unlike previous political forces, has no special interests of its own to pursue. From the outset, the CPC has made happiness for the Chinese people and the rejuvenation of the Chinese nation its abiding goals. Like a beacon, it has illuminated the way forward for the Chinese people. Over the past hundred years, the CPC has grown from a small party with just over  members into the largest governing party in the world, with more than  million members in a country of more than . billion people. It is a party of major international standing. It has governed the worlds largest socialist country for more than seven decades. It has led the Chinese people onto the path towards national rejuvenation and modernization, and it enjoys extensive support from the Chinese people. Over the past hundred years, all the struggles, sacrifices and efforts made by the CPC and by the Chinese people under its leadership have been directed to one goalthe rejuvenation of the Chinese nation. Chinas Communists, with Mao Zedong, Deng Xiaoping, Jiang Zemin, Hu Jintao and Xi Jinping as their chief representatives, have adapted the basic tenets of Marxism to Chinas realities and its traditional culture, and they have gone from victory to victory on their journey towards national rejuvenation. To realize national rejuvenation, the CPC led the Chinese people in fighting with unyielding determination, achieving great success in the New Democratic Revolution . Fighting as armed revolutionaries through the Northern Expedition, the Agrarian Revolutionary War, the War of Resistance Against Japanese Aggression, and the War of Liberation, they defeated the counterrevolutionaries, shattered the three mountains of imperialism, feudalism, and bureaucratcapitalism, and founded the Peoples Republic of China PRC in . They secured the independence of the nation, liberated the Chinese people, and put their future in their own hands. Victory in the New Democratic Revolution brought an end to Chinas semifeudal and semicolonial status and the disunity that plagued the country. All the unequal treaties imposed on China by imperialist powers and all the privileges they had accorded themselves were abolished. This created the fundamental conditions for realizing national rejuvenation. By engaging in this tenacious struggle, the CPC and the Chinese people sent a powerful message to the world The Chinese people had stood upright. The time of oppression and humiliation was over, and it would never return. To realize national rejuvenation, the CPC led the Chinese people in a dedicated effort to build a strong China, and they achieved great success. By carrying out the socialist revolution in China, they brought to an end several thousand years of feudalisma system exploitative and repressive by its very natureand established socialism as Chinas fundamental political system. In the course of building socialism, they overcame subversion, sabotage, and armed provocation by imperialist and hegemonic powers, and brought about the most extensive and profound social changes in the history of the Chinese nation. This great transformation of a poor, backward and populous country in the East into a modern socialist China created the fundamental political conditions and laid down the institutional foundations necessary for realizing national rejuvenation. By succeeding in their tenacious struggle, the CPC and the Chinese people showed the world that they were equally capable of changing the old China and building a new one. They showed the world that only socialism could save China, and that socialism could deliver development to China. To realize national rejuvenation, the CPC led the Chinese people in freeing their minds and forging ahead, achieving great success in reform, opening up, and socialist modernization. The CPC led the people in making a great transition after the founding of the Peoples Republic by laying down its general guidelines for the primary stage of socialism. It advanced reform and opening up with resolve, overcame risks and challenges from every direction, and founded, upheld, and developed socialism with Chinese characteristics. This enabled China to transform itself from a highly centralized planned economy into a socialist market economy full of vitality, and from a largely closed country to one that is open to the world on all fronts. It also enabled China to achieve a historic leapfrom a country constrained by backward productive forces to the worlds second largest economyand to make a historic transformation by raising the living standards of its people from bare subsistence to general prosperity. These achievements fueled the push towards national rejuvenation by providing robust institutional conditions and the material base for rapid development. By succeeding in their tenacious struggle, the CPC and the Chinese people showed the world that reform and opening up has been critical in making China what it is today. China has made great strides and caught up with the times. To realize national rejuvenation, the CPC has led the Chinese people in carrying out their great struggle, launching a great initiative, advancing their great cause, fulfilling their great dream, and achieving great success for socialism with Chinese characteristics in the new era. The th National Congress of the CPC in  marked a new era for socialism with Chinese characteristics. In this new era, the Party has strengthened its overall leadership, coordinated the implementation of the Fivesphere Integrated Plan This is Chinas overall plan for building socialism with Chinese characteristics, that is, to promote coordinated progress in the economic, political, cultural, social and ecoenvironmental fields and the Fourpronged Comprehensive Strategy This is Chinas strategic plan for building socialism with Chinese characteristics, that is, to make comprehensive moves to complete a moderately prosperous society in all respects, to further reform, to advance the rule of law, and to strengthen Party selfgovernance. After the Fifth Plenary Session of the th CPC Central Committee, finishing the building of a moderately prosperous society in all respects was turned into building a modern socialist country in an allround way in accordance with the actual conditions, upheld and improved the system of socialism with Chinese characteristics, and modernized Chinas system and capacity for governance. It has adopted a full range of intraParty regulations and exercised rulebased internal management. It has overcome significant risks and challenges, achieved the First Centenary Goal This is the goal set by the CPC at its th National Congress, to finish building a moderately prosperous society in all respects by the centenary of the CPC in , and adopted a strategic plan to fulfill the Second Centenary Goal This is the goal set by the CPC at its th National Congress to build China into a modern socialist country that is prosperous, strong, democratic, culturally advanced, and harmonious by the centenary of the PRC in . This goal was further defined by the CPC at its th National Congress in October  as to develop China into a great modern socialist country that is prosperous, strong, democratic, culturally advanced, harmonious, and beautiful by the middle of the st century. All these efforts have provided robust institutional conditions, strong material foundations, and a source of inspiration for advancing the cause of national rejuvenation. By succeeding in their tenacious struggle, the CPC and the Chinese people have shown the world that the Chinese nation has achieved the tremendous transformation from standing upright to becoming prosperous and growing in strength, and that Chinas rejuvenation is an unstoppable historical force. At the ceremony marking the centenary of the CPC held on July , , General Secretary Xi Jinping declared that thanks to the continued efforts of the whole Party and the entire nation, China has realized the First Centenary Goal of building a moderately prosperous society in all respects. This means that it has put an end to absolute poverty in China, and is now marching in confident strides towards the Second Centenary Goal of building China into a great modern socialist country. This is a glorious achievement for the Chinese nation, for the Chinese people, and for the Communist Party of China. Finishing the building of a moderately prosperous society in all respects means realizing a millenniaold dream and a centuryold hope of the Chinese nation and fulfilling the solemn promise the CPC made to the people and history. In substantially reducing the worlds povertystricken population, China has made an outstanding contribution to human progress. Over the past hundred years, the CPC has led the Chinese people in ending the humiliation and misery inflicted on them in the modern era. Without the CPC, there would be no new China and no national rejuvenation. This is a fact that is clear to the Chinese people based on Chinas achievements in revolution, reconstruction, and reform. The leadership of the CPC is the choice of history and the people. This leadership is vital for the future of the country, the nation, and the Party itself. Over the past hundred years, through its dauntless efforts to create a new China, the CPC has led the Chinese people in writing the most magnificent chapter in the millennialong history of the Chinese nation. The great path they have embarked upon, the great cause they have undertaken, and the great achievements they have made over the past century will go down in the annals of the Chinese nation and humanity. I. Serving the People Wholeheartedly The Communist Party of China is the vanguard of Chinas working class, the Chinese people, and the Chinese nation. Serving the people wholeheartedly is its abiding mission. The country is the people and the people are the country. The Partys struggle to found a new China and develop it is for the people. Of the people, by the people, for the peoplethis is what has guided the CPC from victory to victory over the past century. . Putting the People First The CPC is dedicated to the people and forever puts their interests first. It follows the underlying trends of social development and respects the peoples principal role in making history. It pursues the lofty goal of working for the wellbeing of the Chinese people and does everything in the interests of the people. The CPC is rooted in the people. It was born in  in the great struggle against feudal rule and foreign aggression, at a time when MarxismLeninism became integrated with Chinas workers movement. From the very day of its creation, the CPC has represented Chinas working class, the Chinese people, and the Chinese nation. It has no special interests of its own, nor does it represent any interest group, establishment group, or privileged social group. Its only goals are to deliver happiness for the people and achieve national rejuvenation. The CPC shares the same goals as the people, and it shares a common stake with the people. Drawing support and strength from the people, the Party has grown in strength in the fight to overcome every challenge. Members of the CPC are ordinary people. They love life and are hard working. They are sincere, open and compassionate. But they are also vanguards and role models in daily life, work, and public activities. They are the first to step forward in case of challenges and dangers, fearless and ready to give their all for the country and the people. They emerge from the people and lead them to go forward. They are Communistscitizens of China both ordinary and extraordinary at the same time. From its very beginning, the CPC has striven to serve the people and won their support and endorsement. It represents the fundamental interests of all the Chinese, and everything it does is to realize, safeguard and advance their interests. Meeting the peoples expectation for a better life is its goal. The peoples interests are behind everything the Party doesleading revolution, building the armed forces, developing political institutions, boosting the economy, carrying out reform and opening up, developing culture, and exploring better ways of running society. In China, the state founded by the people under CPC leadership is called the Peoples Republic of China its government is called the peoples government, the armed forces are called the Peoples Liberation Army and Party officials are peoples servants. The Party Central Committees newspaper is the Peoples Daily, and Chinas central bank is called the Peoples Bank. The people are the lifeblood of the Party indeed, they are the inexhaustible source of inspiration giving the Party all the strength it needs to fulfill its mission. The CPC makes decisions and adopts policies in the fundamental interests of the people. At different stages of Chinas revolution, reconstruction and reform, and at historical junctures critical to the future of the Party and the country, the Party has always acted to advance the peoples interests and oppose any action that harms them. The Party has taken sound development as its top priority in governance. It has unleashed and developed the productive forces to meet the peoples expectation for a better life. Since its th National Congress, the CPC has followed a peoplecentered philosophy it has launched a full range of initiatives to achieve common prosperity and uphold fairness and justice. It has delivered initial prosperity for all. It has fought Covid and saved lives no matter the cost. It has eradicated absolute poverty in the country, implemented the rural revitalization strategy, and promoted a new peoplefocused urbanization strategy. The vision that lucid waters and lush mountains are invaluable assets inspires the drive to protect the environment. Determined that housing is for living in, not for speculation, the CPC has taken clear steps to keep the housing market under control. It sees that the capital market is properly regulated. It also sees that justice is served in every judicial case. All of this has enabled the people to fully share the countrys development gains. Over the past century, through all the changes in the domestic and international environment, whether in good times or bad, the CPC has always put the people first. It has never wavered in fulfilling this commitment. The CPC has made great sacrifices for the people. From the founding of the CPC in  to the founding of the Peoples Republic in , more than . million identified members of organizations under Party leadership gave their lives to liberate the country. Of the six family members of Mao Zedong who died for the revolution, five were Party members. In peaceful times, too, during disaster relief efforts after earthquakes, floods and other emergencies, Party members have rushed to the scene and risked their own lives to save the lives of others. Since the Covid outbreak, close to  Party members and officials have lost their lives in the line of duty. More than , Party members and officials also gave their lives in the battle against absolute poverty. Among all those who have died were rank and file Party members, senior officials, and family members of top Party leaders. Panel  The Fight Against Covid After China was struck by Covid, the CPC and the Chinese government responded swiftly, putting peoples lives before all else. It organized massive nucleic acid testing and inoculation, made every effort to identify every case of infection and did everything possible to save patients and protect the peoples health. Treatment of Covid patients is free of charge in China. All Covid patients, both confirmed and suspected, have received government financial aid to pay for any medical bills not covered by basic medical insurance, serious disease insurance, or the medical assistance fund. As of June , all medical expenditure of inpatients with confirmed infections had reached a total of RMB . billion with RMB . billion paid by basic medical insurance, or RMB , per person. The average cost of treating each Covid patient in critical condition was more than RMB ,. The individual cost for some patients in critical condition exceeded RMB  million, all covered by the government. Free nucleic acid testing and inoculation have been conducted nationwide. As of July , , tests have been conducted on . billion nucleic acid samples, and more than . billion Covid vaccines had been injected, with all costs covered by the government. . From Victory to Victory with the People The CPC works in the service of the people. It trusts and relies on the people and mobilizes them to fight for their interests. It follows the mass line, a principle of from the people, to the people. It has shared good times and hard times with the people, and it has led them in surmounting all obstacles and making great strides forward. By relying on the people, the CPC rose and grew strong. It gained the strength it needed to beat powerful enemies, both inside and outside China, and to win victory in the New Democratic Revolution. During this revolution, in the Agrarian Revolutionary War, the CPC galvanized extensive public support and defeated the first four Kuomintang KMT encirclement and suppression campaigns. During the War of Resistance Against Japanese Aggression, the Party mobilized the people and overwhelmed the enemy with a vast peoples war. During the War of Liberation, with supplies transported in wheelbarrows and on peoples shoulders, the Peoples Liberation Army PLA secured decisive victories against the KMT troops in the three major campaigns. In these contests between progressives and reactionaries and between justice and injustice, the KMT forces shielded themselves in ironclad fortresses, and the Japanese invaders put their faith in their military superiority. However by relying on the people, the CPC defeated them all. By relying on the people, the CPC founded the Peoples Republic, carried out socialist revolution, and engaged in rebuilding the country from scratch. The founding of the Peoples Republic marked the ultimate moment of freedom for the Chinese people from the yoke of slavery and oppression. Now masters of their own country, the people threw themselves into reconstruction to create a bright future for the country and the nation. In just a few years, an independent and substantial industrial and economic system took shape in China. Groundbreaking successes were achieved in nuclear technology, satellites, carrier rockets and other cuttingedge technologies, and major advances were made in Chinas overall development. By relying on the people, the CPC carried out reform, opening up and socialist modernization, pioneering a path of socialism that is distinctively Chinese. The reform and openingup initiative launched by the CPC in  freed peoples minds, inspiring them to boldly explore new frontiers. The household contract system was introduced in rural areas, and village and township businesses flourished. The setting up of special economic zones connected China to the world, enabling it to introduce foreign technology and capital and export Chinese products. Waves of reform swept across the country, powering Chinas development. With dedication and resolve, the Chinese people achieved great success in modernization, completing the greatest social and economic transformation the world has ever seen. By relying on the people, the CPC has ushered Chinese socialism into a new era. Since its th National Congress, the Party has galvanized the whole nation to realize the Chinese Dream of national rejuvenation and boosted economic vitality with further reform. Its successful internal initiatives to improve Party conduct have boosted public morale. The Chinese people have given of their best and fully released their power of creation in pursuit of their shared dreams. They have carried out further reform and achieved allround initial prosperity. They have eradicated absolute poverty. They have fought side by side in the battle against Covid. They have reined in environmental pollution. And they have succeeded in keeping systemic risks at bay. Their hard work has made it possible for China to turn its blueprint for development into reality. Together, the Chinese people are creating miracles that stun the world. Proud and confident, they are pressing ahead on the path of Chinese socialism. Over the past century, hundreds of millions of Chinese have dedicated themselves to realizing the rejuvenation of the Chinese nation. Their contribution will go down in the annals of history their epic deeds will be remembered by posterity. The people have created history, and they are the source of the Partys strength. The Chinese are a great, glorious, and heroic peoplethis is a fact fully borne out by the year history of the CPC. Panel  WholeProcess Democracy Wholeprocess democracy, including democratic election, consultation, decisionmaking, management and scrutiny, operates across all of Chinas governance mechanisms. By April , more than . million people from various ethnic groups, sectors, social groups, and political parties, including a large number of workers and farmers, had served as deputies to peoples congresses at all levels. Since , more than one billion registered voters have elected close to . million deputies to county and township level peoples congresses. Since the th National Congress of the CPC, public opinion has been solicited on  draft laws. Over  million submissions have been made by . million people, and many important proposals from these submissions have been adopted. During the compilation of the Civil Code, ten rounds of public opinion were solicited, and more than one million proposals were collected from , people. Since , the CPC Central Committee has held or entrusted its relevant departments to convene more than  consultative meetings to hear views and proposals from the eight nonCPC political parties and from public figures with no party affiliation nonaffiliates on major issues, such as the th Fiveyear Plan, and the formulation of the reports to be delivered by the general secretary to the CPC National Congress and plenary sessions of the CPC Central Committee. Nonaffiliates and the central committees of the other parties have submitted more than  written proposals, many of which have been incorporated into major policy decisions. From its first session in March  to April , the th CPPCC National Committee received , various proposals. During the critical battle against poverty, the CPC Central Committee asked the central committees of the other political parties to each supervise poverty alleviation efforts in one of eight poor provinces and autonomous regions in central and western China. More than , people from these parties were involved in this work. They made more than , proposals to the Party committees and governments of these provinces and autonomous regions, and submitted more than  reports to the CPC Central Committee and the State Council. . The People as Masters of the Country The people should run their own countrythis is an abiding commitment of the CPC. Over the past hundred years, it has led the people in realizing peoples democracy in China, a country with a feudal history dating back several thousand years that descended into a semifeudal and semicolonial society after the Opium War. Under the CPCs leadership, democracy has been practiced in the whole process of the countrys revolution, reconstruction and reform, in all aspects of governance, and in every field of economic and social life. Democracy, a shared value, has taken root in China as a political institution and mechanism of governance, and the Chinese people now truly hold in their own hands the future of the country, society and themselves. The CPC has made unremitting efforts to explore new ways of realizing peoples democracy. During the New Democratic Revolution, the Party committed to developing workers and peasants democracy and peoples democracy, and set up Soviet congresses of workers, peasants and soldiers, assemblies of representatives, and representative conferences of people from all sectors. When the Peoples Republic of China was founded, the peoples democratic dictatorship was adopted as the governing system, and the system of peoples congresses was instituted as the governing structure, thus enabling the people to run their own country. Since the launch of reform and opening up, the CPC has worked to ensure the Partys leadership, the peoples position as the masters of the country, and lawbased governance, which have become fundamental principles of democratic socialism with distinctive Chinese features. Since its th National Congress, the CPC has set Eight Criteria At the meeting marking the th anniversary of the National Peoples Congress in , President Xi Jinping said the following The best way to judge whether a countrys political system is democratic and works is to see whether the succession of its leaders is conducted in an orderly way in accordance with the law, whether government affairs and social, economic and cultural affairs are managed by all the people in accordance with the law, whether the public freely voice demands to advance their interests, whether all stakeholders in society are fully involved in the countrys political process, whether government decisions are made in a sound and democratic way, whether outstanding individuals in all sectors can enter government leadership teams and the governance system through fair competition, whether the governing party exercises leadership over government affairs in accordance with the Constitution and the law, and whether the exercise of power is kept under effective checks and supervision to ensure that Chinas political system is a democratic one that delivers, and these criteria underpin the path of socialism with Chinese characteristics. The Party takes the development of democracy as a matter of comprehensive and farreaching significance. To ensure the peoples principal position, improve the performance of the Party and the state, and arouse the peoples enthusiasm, the Party has expanded socialist democracy, advanced electoral democracy, and developed consultative democracy. Instituted by the CPC, the system of peoples congresses is Chinas fundamental political system. The Party fully solicits the views of the people and heeds their voices, and formulates its policies accordingly. In a framework under which the Party exercises leadership over the lawmaking process, and the National Peoples Congress NPC and its Standing Committee exercise the power of legislation, the Partys core beliefs have, through proper legal procedures, been written into the Constitution, the law, and codes of conduct for all the people, state institutions, the armed forces, political parties, social organizations, enterprises and public institutions. The system of peoples congresses ensures the CPCs leadership, the peoples position as masters of the country, and lawbased governance, and it gives full expression to the guidelines of the CPC, the will of the state, and the expectations of the people. This system has been further consolidated and developed since the th National Congress of the CPC. The mechanism to ensure that deputies to peoples congresses engage with the people has been strengthened, enabling them to better perform their duties, and enabling the peoples congresses and their standing committees to better play their roles. In addition to practicing and improving the system of peoples congresses, the CPC has led the people in establishing and developing a number of other political systems, including the system of multiparty cooperation and political consultation under the leadership of the CPC, the system of regional ethnic autonomy, and the system of communitylevel selfgovernance. These systems ensure that the people run their country. Consultative democracy is a distinctive feature of Chinas socialist democracy. It means consultation among political parties, peoples congresses, government departments, committees of the Chinese Peoples Political Consultative Conference CPPCC, peoples organizations, communities, and social organizations. It has enriched democracy by expanding its forms and channels. The system of regional ethnic autonomy provides an institutional base for all ethnic groups to run the country together. It fully protects the equal rights of all  ethnic groups and the power of selfgovernance in ethnic autonomous areas, underpins development in ethnic minority areas, and reinforces ethnic unity. Under the system of communitylevel selfgovernance, urban and rural residents directly exercise their democratic right to manage community affairs and programs for public benefit. Communitylevel governance in China is a dynamic, harmonious and orderly process. The system of democratic management by employees congresses in enterprises and public institutions plays an active role in protecting the lawful rights and interests of the employees. It ensures they run their own affairs, enhances vitality of these organizations, and helps them to flourish and prosper. The CPC conducts wholeprocess democracy. This practice is supported by public consultation, under which public issues are discussed by all those involved to reach extensive co