Mauritian doctor helps treat cases in Zhejiang
2020/7/23 10:06
Hosany Sumayyah L discuss with her colleagues about a passenger with abnormal body temperature at a novel coronavirus preventionandcontrol checkpoint of an expressway exit in Wenzhou, East Chinas Zhejiang Province, on Feb , .  Sumayyah Hosany, a Mauritian doctor, decided to stay in Wenzhou, Zhejiang province, in February while COVID was rapidly spreading throughout China. Together with her husband Hamad Abdul Zahir, a Pakistani doctor, she did all she could to help locals fight the epidemic. Im really proud that Ive got the chance to give back, Sumayyah said. Sumayyah, , came to China at the age of . She studied at Wenzhou Medical University for eight years and obtained a masters degree in clinical medicine. She and her husband now work at Panhealth Medical Center in Wenzhou. They volunteered at a highway checkpoint south of Wenzhou during the epidemic, checking travelers IDs, taking their temperatures and inquiring about their travel history. We really want to do our part, no matter how small it is, Sumayyah said. I worked with policemen, nurses, doctors from other hospitals, and people at the grassroots level. I felt a sense of connection and now I feel Im more part of the culture and more part of the country. For me, as a Pakistani, since we were born, the only thing we know is the PakistanChina friendship, Hamad said. Whenever we needed any kind of support, China was always standing with us and still is. All these things give warmth to your heart. So its an honor, to be honest. Sumayyah Hosany,?a Mauritian doctor. Photo provided to China Daily Sumayyahs parents were worried about her at first and urged her and her husband to return as soon as possible, but eventually they began supporting their decision to stay in China. On March , Mauritius reported its first three confirmed cases, causing panic among the public and sparking rumors and misinformation. Sumayyah made short videos on the basics of epidemic prevention and posted them on social media platforms to teach her friends and family back home how to protect themselves. Sumayyah also visited the Wenzhou Central Hospital to learn about professional epidemic prevention practices and shared with doctors in Mauritius and Pakistan. When she learned that Mauritius was in need of preventive supplies, Sumayyah turned to the Panhealth Medical Center for help and received a positive response, not only from the hospital, but also from the governments of Wenzhou and several other cities. A batch of face masks, protective suits, goggles and temperature scanners were sent from China to Mauritius and Pakistan in April. COVID is the enemy of all mankind, said Xue Zhihui, director of the Panhealth Medical Center in Wenzhou. We cannot turn a blind eye to Mauritius, let alone Sumayyahs great contributions to the COVID fight in Wenzhou and in China.