Palestine doctors may lack supplies, but not courage
2020/7/23 9:38
An employee of the Palestinian Ministry of Health takes a swab sample from a woman for COVID test in the West Bank city of Hebron, July , .  Editors note This news column showcases stories from around the world that bring a touch of positivity to the fight against the deadly coronavirus. HEBRON, West BankShady Abu Ayyash, a Palestinian physician from the West Bank city of Hebron, has been doing all that he can to save the lives of COVID patients in the governmentowned Dora Hospital. Wearing his protective suit, gloves and mask, Abu Ayyash moves from one room to another to check on his patients. Wearing gowns for long hours during hot summer days is unbearable, said the yearold father of three, adding doctors barely use the toilet or take a break at work because of the difficulty of taking off the protective gowns. Despite his fear of being infected with the virus, the doctor said he puts that aside as he goes into battle against COVID. I may get infected since we dont have all the capabilities to fight the disease and its spread, but it is my duty, Abu Ayyash said. An employee of the Palestinian Ministry of Health takes a swab sample from a man for COVID test in the West Bank city of Hebron, July , .  In response to an increasing number of patients at the Dora Hospital where dozens of doctors work around the clock, the government established a new department at another hospital in the city for the treatment of coronavirus patients. On the day he was interviewed, Mohamed Reby, director of the Dora Hospital, said the facilityequipped with  ventilators and  intensive care bedswas treating about  COVID patients, eight of whom were in intensive care with three on them on ventilators. Hebron, the most populous city in the West Bank with around , residents, has recorded the highest rate of COVID infections and deaths since the first case in the Palestinian territories was identified on March . The number of infections in the city has reached almost , with  deaths. The health ministry conducts more than , tests every day in the city, said Afif Atawneh, the official leading the citys coronavirus response. An employee of the Palestinian Ministry of Health holds a swab sample for COVID test in the West Bank city of Hebron, July , .  Commercial hub The disease has spread widely in Hebron because it is a commercial hub and a point for Palestinian workers to cross into Israel, he said. Adding to the strains on the health system, around  of the citys doctors have become infected while treating coronavirus patients. The increasing number of infections and the spread of the disease significantly increase the need for medical supplies and medical personnel, said Wael Abu Snineh, head of the Medical Syndicate in Hebron. Hospitals in the city need  intensivecare units, but we only have . We also need  ventilators. We have only  now, Abu Snineh said. So far, Palestine has recorded , infections, including  deaths, the Palestinian health ministry said. Xinhua