Experts say HK needs mainland to aid virus fight
2020/7/23 7:44
People wearing face masks ride an escalator in a shopping mall in Central, Hong Kong, July , . Photo by Calvin NgChina Daily SAR reports recordbreaking  new infections as rd outbreak sweeps city Hong Kong further tightened pandemic precautionary measures on Wednesday as the city reported a recordbreaking  new coronavirus cases, including  local transmissions. In the face of skyrocketing cases, medical experts suggested authorities accept the mainlands help to boost testing capacity in order to halt the transmission chain in the city as the sources of  of the new infections are unknown. Recent cases with unknown sources showed an invisible transmission chain in the community, indicating a very high risk of largescale community outbreak, Secretary for Food and Health Sophia Chan Siuchee told a news conference on Wednesday afternoon. In response to the outbreak, the SAR government announced it would expand mandatory face mask regulations in all indoor public venues, public transportation terminals and transit areas. The new rule will take effect on Thursday and remain in force for two weeks. Violators face a maximum fine of HK,. Meanwhile, the government also extended the mandatory quarantine period for arrivals from the mainland to Sept . The quarantine rule for overseas arrivals as well as bans on operations of certain public venues and gatherings of more than eight people have been extended to Dec . So far, the city has reported , coronavirus cases and  deaths. Hong Kong is experiencing a third wave of coronavirus infections, with more than onethird of those cases recorded this month. Chan also confirmed that the mainland, which has attached great importance to the situation in Hong Kong, has offered to help. To cope with the new outbreak, the government has recently collaborated with two mainland companies to conduct free tests for around , people in the citys four hardesthit sectorsstaff members in elderly care centers, catering, property management companies and taxi drivers. The companiesBeijing Genomics Institution and China Inspection Company Limited, both of which have laboratories in Hong Kongwere called in to help with the massive testing. Their involvement has significantly improved the citys testing capacity, which was restricted by limited manpower and machinery, Chan said. It was reported that the lab run by the Beijing Genomics Institution can test around , samples per dayabout half of the citys testing capacityand produce results within half a day. Infectious diseases expert Tsang Kayyan said the pandemic may last for another six to eight weeks and the increasing daily spike is expected to place more pressure on local virus testing agencies, which are already strained. He added that to effectively contain the coronavirus, the citys daily testing capacity needs to reach about ,, far more than its current capability. To ease the pressure on local agencies, he encouraged the government to collaborate with leading firms from the mainland, which perform well in efficiency and cost control. Leung Chichiu, chairman of the Advisory Committee on Communicable Diseases under the Hong Kong Medical Association, told China Daily that the imminent task now is to improve virus testing capacity to prevent disastrous consequences. Mainland testing agencies based in Hong Kong and those located in Shenzhen, which borders the SAR, could all be considered as possible collaboration partners, Leung suggested.