Stricter measures, cooperation central to halting virus spread
2020/7/23 6:46
The worsening COVID situation in Hong Kong, as evidenced by a high level of confirmed new infections persisting for nearly two weeks and an overstretched public healthcare sector running out of isolation beds, explains the need for the special administrative region government to step up quarantine measures on Wednesday, just three days after a previous round of measures was extended. With the benefit of hindsight, some have opined that stricter quarantine measures should have been introduced much earlier. Theoretically, the more draconian the quarantine rules are, the more effective they are in containing the spread of the virus. But arguably, the health authority has to walk a tightrope when weighing options. It has to strike a very delicate balance. Stress caused by months of social distancing has reportedly contributed to an alarming deterioration in mental health among Hong Kong residents weariness of social distancing and maskwearing has also been reported recently. The health authority had reasons to be cautious about introducing tighter socialdistancing rules until the latest flareup, known also as the third wave of the COVID outbreak. There is also the need to avoid further suffocating the already withering economy with stricter socialdistancing measures that essentially dampen economic activities. With the benefit of hindsight, some commentators have also suggested that quarantine exemptions for members of sea or air crew should have been lifted much earlier than July , when the health authority tightened border measures and required sea and air crew members to produce negative COVID test results before coming to the city in the wake of a spike in confirmed infections. But they forgot that the authorities have to balance the needs of sustaining international commercial and trade activities as well as ensuring an adequate supply of food and necessities for residents. But the rapid deterioration in the pandemic situation over the past couple of weeks has tilted the balance toward the side of caution. There is a stronger reason for Hong Kong to take the shortterm hit of more draconian quarantine measures than risking a protracted period of a massive COVID outbreak, which is why the health authorities have been stepping up quarantine and socialdistancing measures over the past two weeks  first on July , then on Sunday and Wednesday. The steppedup quarantine, socialdistancing and maskwearing measures taken over the past two weeks will hopefully help stem the spread of the novel coronavirus in Hong Kong. But the cooperation of individuals is crucial to achieving the desired effect, without which these measures could be compromised. The least every resident can do is to avoid gathering and to wear a mask whenever one is in a public place. ?