China consulate closure a provocation
2020/7/23 6:02
 The abrupt move by the United States to close Chinas consulate in Houston will backfire, the Chinese embassy in Washington said Wednesday, as it urged the Trump administration to immediately revoke the decision lest it face legitimate and necessary responses. On Tuesday, the US side requested the Chinese Consulate General in Texas to close abruptly  with a hour eviction deadline. Cai Wei, consul general of China in Houston told the ABC TV station that, I am surprised and angry because we have done nothing wrong. I think the US and China are such important countries we need to be friends. Its unimaginable for me to see such a cold war between two such big countries. Its a disaster to two peoples. Its also a disaster for the whole world. Cai also refuted numerous claims about the consulate by the US side, saying that repeating a lie thousands of times doesnt make it truth. Some US politicians lied for the socalled political correctness, while ignoring peoples lives and wellbeing. In the end, they will harm others as well as themselves. We advise those US politicians to stop playing their tricks as soon as possible. In a statement, the Chinese embassy in Washington said It is a political provocation unilaterally launched by the US side, which seriously violates international law, basic norms governing international relations and the bilateral consular agreement between China and the US. China strongly condemns and firmly opposes such an outrageous and unjustified move which sabotages ChinaUS relations, it added. US State Department spokeswoman Morgan Ortagus said in a statement that the closure was to protect American intellectual property and Americans private information. The Chinese embassy said the US accusations are groundless fabrications and the excuses cited are farfetched and untenable. For the US side, if it is bent on attacking China, it will never be short of excuses, the embassy said. Jessica Chen Weiss, a political scientist and associate professor of government at Cornell University, said that unless more evidence is forthcoming, the move looks like a steppedup effort to use China as the bogeyman and distract US voters from the Trump administrations disastrous response to the novel coronavirus pandemic. If the consulate has been engaged in massive illegal spying and influence operations, why was the announcement so thin on detail? Weiss asked in a series of tweets posted Wednesday. The last thing we need as our country struggles with a onceinacentury pandemic is an allout confrontation with China, she added. Jon Taylor, a professor and chair of the department of political science and geography at the University of Texas at San Antonio, said the timing of the US move immediately raises some questions. Unless there is some substantial evidence, this appears to be another effort to look tough on China during a US presidential election year, Taylor said. Taylor said he had visited the consulate many times during his years in Houston for meetings and to renew visas. He said the consulate is supportive of cultural and educational efforts throughout the South and Southwest. It has the distinction of being the first consulate established in the US after the normalization of relations in , he said. Charles Foster, the former chairman of the Asia Society Texas Center, where he was for about three decades, and the current chairman of USChina Partnerships in Houston, is one of those who have been instrumental in fostering relations between the US and China. I was very surprised and regret this morning to learn the decision to close the Chinese consulate. I believe this will be very harmful to the constructive USChina bilateral relationship, said Foster. This will cause a counterreaction in China  and any further reaction in the US  all leading to steady deterioration of bilateral relations at a time we should be strengthening it. David Firestein, president and CEO at the George H.W. Bush Foundation for USChina Relations, echoed Fosters view. This move takes the relationship to a modernera low point and ushers in a highly volatile new phase in the bilateral relationship. Given the wellestablished diplomatic principle of reciprocity, particularly as relates to diplomatic representation, I have a feeling that a US consulate general in China is about to suffer the same fate as the Chinese Consulate General in Houston, Firestein said.  I dont see how either side benefits from going further down the dangerous and uncharted path on which we now seem to be, Firestein added. Foster said that China, as the other major economic power in the world, shouldnt be ignored by the US. It represents close to onefifth of humanity and more when you include the China diaspora. We cannot ignore China. We must work with China, said Foster. Under the current administration, all the actions that have been taken in the last several months are driving a wedge between the US and China, and it is making everything more difficult to resolve than before, he said. Just a few months ago, when the phase one trade deal was announced, China would be buying billions of US products, a lot of which would be very beneficial to Houston and Texas as a result of purchasing billions in oil and gas, all of which last nights decision puts into jeopardy, he said. Bob Harvey, president and CEO of the Greater Houston Partnership, regretted the consulates closure. The consulate has been important to building bilateral trade and investment between the Houston region and China and for furthering cultural ties, Harvey said. Harvey also said that his group is aware of US officials concerns directed at Chinese officials and Chinese nationals regarding the theft of intellectual property and cybertheft. We look forward to the reopening of the consulate in Houston once these concerns are addressed, he said. The consulate, which had been closed since early April due to COVID, has been active in helping local communities fight the coronavirus. In April, the consulate helped organize an online conference bringing medical experts from Beijing and Shandong together with their counterparts from Texas Memorial Hermann Health System and Baylor College of Medicine to share experiences in fighting COVID. The consulate facilitated donations of personal protective equipment PPE from China to local communities, including , masks from Shanghai to the city of Houston and a load of PPE from Shandong to Memorial Hermann Southwest Hospital. In its statement, the Chinese embassy said China is committed to the principle of noninterference in other countries domestic affairs. The embassy also noted how the principle of reciprocity has not been observed. For example, it said China has helped facilitate US diplomatic missions and personnel pursuant to the Vienna conventions. In contrast, the US imposed unjustified restrictions on Chinese diplomatic personnel last October, and in June it unscrupulously and repeatedly opened Chinas diplomatic pouches and seized Chinas official goods, the embassy said. It said that that because of the willful and reckless stigmatization and fanning of hatred by the US side, the Chinese embassy in the US has received threats to the safety and security of its missions and personnel more than once. At the same time, the US side has more diplomatic and consular missions and personnel in China than China has in the US, another area where the principle of reciprocity is not reflected, the embassy said.