Rural Texas towns hit hard by rise in cases of COVID
2021/8/27 0:00
COVID is taking a heavy toll on the oilfield town of Iraan and other rural communities in the US state of Texas. There are only  hospital beds and not a single intensive care unit bed in Iraan, a town of about , residents in the western part of the state. The only doctors in town are family physicians with emergency room experience. The closest hospitals with ventilators, specialists and ICU beds for the treatment of COVID patients are more than  kilometers away in Midland, Odessa and San Angelo. In recent weeks, about  residents of Iraan tested positive for the novel coronavirus, and three of them had to be airlifted out for treatment, The Texas Tribune reported. No one in Iraan had died due to COVID, and no children had been hospitalized for it, the newspaper reported on Aug . The towns public school district shut down after only five days of classes, because about onefourth of the school staff of , and  percent of the  students, were either infected with or exposed to the coronavirus, according to schools Superintendent Tracy Canter. The opening of school has been delayed until Monday. Those numbers were higher than what the district saw for all of last year, Canter told the Tribune. The high infection rate makes it hard for such a small school district to operate because employees might perform several jobsteaching during the day and driving a bus when the school day is over. Iraan General Hospital CEO Jason Rybolt told CNN that  people were tested for the virus, and  had tested positive during a twoweek period this montha  percent positivity rate. The towns mayor, Darren Brown, told CNN, This is very serious. Town resident Vicky Zapata said, We had had COVIDcases before, but never to this magnitude. Rybolt said he was very concerned for the community and very concerned for trying to make sure that they have the healthcare that they need. Of the residents who had to be airlifted elsewhere, he said that at least one was taken out of the state because of a lack of available ICU beds in Texas. It could be  hours for coronavirus patients to get a bed. It could be  hours. You just never know how long its going to take, Rybolt said. Three other rural school districts in Texas have also temporarily closed some or all of their schools due to rising numbers of staff members and students either being infected with COVID or in quarantine. The Morgan Mill Independent School District, with more than  students, closed for a few days because half its staff members had contracted the virus. The Bloomburg Independent School District, which has more than  students, and the Waskom Independent School District, with more than  students, were closed for at least several days. All four school districts are in areas where fewer than a third of residents are fully vaccinated, The Texas Tribune reported. Morgan Mill Superintendent Wendy Sanders said that even though half the school districts staff members were out sick, many of them dont want to be tested for the coronavirus. It was their personal choice to not get tested, Sanders said. I dont believe in taking away personal freedom of choice and enforcing testing. Closing the small districts led the Texas State Teachers Association to again call on Aug  for Governor Greg Abbott to rescind his order against mask requirements. The group urged all educators and students in the state to wear masks on campus, as recommended by healthcare experts. Unfortunately, the closure of these small school districts is more proof that the COVID pandemic is still dangerous and needs to be taken seriously by the governor and school officials, the organization said in a statement. People must get vaccinated, and educators and students need to wear masks to school. However, the four small districts that have seen closures did not plan to require students or teachers to wear masks. mayzhouchinadailyusa.com