China vows to keep exporting protective materials
2020/7/22 13:55
A child visits the exhibition hall of the Palace of Compassion and Tranquility in Beijings Palace Museum on Tuesday. The museum, also known as the Forbidden City, reopened some indoor exhibition halls after the capital lowered its COVID emergency response from level II to III on Monday.?JIANG DONGCHINA DAILY As Beijing has lowered its emergency response to COVID from level II to III, a number of parks and tourist sites have reopened their indoor exhibition halls to visitors, according to a report of chinanews.com. The Palace Museum, also known as the Forbidden City, reopened its exhibition halls such as the Gallery of Clocks and the Treasure Gallery, from Tuesday. According to the website of the museum, a maximum of , visitors are allowed in every day and reservations should be made in advance. In addition to the Palace Museum, some other famous tourist attractions, including the Beijing Zoo, the Summer Palace and Jingshan Park, have also reopened their indoor exhibition areas. The limit for tourist numbers has been raised from  percent of capacity to  percent in these tourist sites. Meanwhile, measures have been put in place to prevent the epidemic. Before entering indoor areas, visitors are required to have their temperature checked and show green QR codes on their mobile phones C which serve as a proof of good health. After going into the indoor areas, tourists should wear a mask and keep a distance of no less than  meter from each other. Tourists are also required to wear a mask in crowded and closed places. Despite the reopening of the tourist spots, officials of the city government warned that it is too early to relax vigilance. There are still many unknowns surrounding the COVID virus and sources of infection are hard to detect, which means we still face a grim situation in epidemic prevention and control, and the virus will coexist with humans for a quite a long period, said Chen Bei, deputy secretarygeneral of the city government, at a media conference on July .