Cuomo visits Georgia to help in fighting virus
2020/7/22 9:58
The headquarters of the European Central Bank ECB are pictured in Frankfurt, Germany, July , .  A financial report has found European banks could face losses of up to  billion euros  billion and a  billion euro hit to their revenues during the next three years as a result of the novel coronavirus crisis. According to the report published by consultancy Oliver Wyman, bad debts would surge to  billion euros, about two and a half times the level in the previous three years. If there was a second wave of the virus that forced another lockdown across the continent then that figure could double, it said. The forecast comes as European Union leaders reached an agreement on a longawaited recovery fund to boost their national economies after the COVID pandemic. Christian Edelmann, cohead of European financial services at Oliver Wyman, said the pandemic is unlikely to cripple the European banking sector, but added that it will force many banks into a limbo state with weak returns. But, to put it in context, the consultancy highlighted that the expected scenario, if most countries avoid a second lockdown, would still only see losses less than  percent of those experienced during the global financial crisis of . Similar losses were experienced during the eurozone crisis of  to . Stock markets will have been boosted by news that a novel coronavirus vaccine developed by the University of Oxford in the United Kingdom appears safe and triggers an immune response. Trials involving , people showed the injection led to them making antibodies and Tcells that can fight the virus. But researchers said it is still too soon to know if this is enough to offer protection and larger trials are under way. The UK has already ordered  million doses of the vaccine. Latest figures show , deaths involving COVID registered in the country. It has emerged that the UKs National Health Service was deprived of large amounts of protective gear at the height of the virus outbreak after a French company contracted to supply millions of masks allegedly prioritized more lucrative deals. The Guardian newspaper and the French news website Mediapart have uncovered evidence suggesting the mask manufacturer Valmy failed to fulfil the terms of a .millionpound contract with the NHS to supply about  million masks in the event of a pandemic. France has now made face masks compulsory in all enclosed public spaces amid a fresh bout of COVID outbreaks. Health Minister Oliver Veran warned that France had between and  active clusters of the virus. In Ireland, a contact tracing app designed to combat local outbreaks of the virus is proving to be a success. Since launching on July , the Covid Tracker app was downloaded . million times in eight daysthe fastestdownloaded app per capita in Europeand has started picking up cases of infection.