ASEAN film week  opens in Vietnam
2020/7/22 6:19
US President Donald Trump pulls his protective face mask from his pocket to show it to reporters as he speaks during a coronavirus disease COVID response news briefing at the White House in Washington, US, July , .  President Donald Trump on Tuesday returned to giving televised briefings on the novel coronavirus situation in the US from the White House and predicted that it will probably, unfortunately, get worse before it gets better. Some areas of the country are doing very well, others doing less well. It will probably unfortunately get worse before it gets better. I dont like saying that, but thats the way it is, he said. But in his first virusfocused briefing in nearly three months, Trump basically painted a positive picture of what he described as US progress in fighting the current surge of coronavirus cases in the South and West, on the development of a vaccine and in providing the nations governors with all they need to counter increasing numbers of infections. Trump read from a script, and unlike previous coronavirus briefings, he didnt spar with reporters when they asked questions. He said that the American response had been better than most and reiterated his belief that the virus will disappear. Trumps briefing came at a time when polls show VicePresident Joe Biden leading him in the November presidential race and on a day when the US recorded more than , deaths, the first time the country has topped that mark in nearly  days. It is the highest singleday death total since June , when , fatalities were reported. More than . million coronavirus infections have been reported in the US, and the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention CDC said Tuesday that an analysis of new data suggests the number of infections may be  times higher. Trump detailed what he said was data that puts the country in a better position to defeat the virus than other countries, saying that the US has a lower fatality rate than almost everywhere else in the world. But data from Johns Hopkins University shows the country has the th highest case fatality rate . percent out of  countries most affected by the coronavirus, and the third highest rate of deaths per , people. Trump also claimed that none of the  governors in the country need anything right now to address new outbreaks. Some governors have disputed that claim. Oregon Governor Kate Brown, a Democrat, told PBS on Monday night that we need help with testing supplies and equipment, and earlier Tuesday, Maryland Governor Larry Hogan, a Republican, warned of testing shortages. The president, who didnt wear a mask during the briefing, urged Americans to wear face coverings though he has been reluctant to do so and previously has said wearing a mask was a personal choice. Were asking everybody that when you are not able to socially distance, wear a mask, get a mask, Trump said. Whether you like the mask or not, they have an impact. He later added that he will use it gladly, no problem with it. Trump stood at a lectern and appeared without VicePresident Mike Pence, Dr Deborah Birx or Dr Anthony Fauci, key members of his White House Coronavirus Task Force. Asked about Fauci and Birx, Trump said, Dr Birx is right outside. He didnt comment on Fauci, the nations top infectious diseases expert. Fauci said Tuesday afternoon that he hadnt been invited to attend Trumps briefing and defended himself against comments Trump had made in a Fox News interview Sunday, when the president called him little bit of an alarmist. People have their opinion about my reaction to things, Fauci said in a CNN interview Tuesday afternoon. I consider myself more of a realist than an alarmist. After reviewing his administrations progress on fighting the virus, Trump took questions from reporters. When asked by a reporter if he takes responsibility for the death toll from the virus, he said Were all responsible. He was also asked if the US would work with China, which is developing a vaccine, and said the country would work with anyone. On Tuesday, states that reopened quickly  Florida, Arizona and Texas  led the nation in reported deaths, each posting more than . Florida reported a record number of new hospitalizations due to the new coronavirus as the states daily new case count reached its th consecutive day with at least , positive cases. The number of people who have had the virus is much greater than the official case count, according to a new analysis released by the CDC on Tuesday. Depending on the region, the number of people infected was sometimes six to  times the number of reported cases, the CDC team said. New York Governor Andrew Cuomo added  more states to his quarantine list, increasing the total to  as he tries to mitigate the spread of the coronavirus to his constituents. Alaska, Delaware, Indiana, Maryland, Missouri, Montana, North Dakota, Nebraska, Virginia and Washington state all meet the metrics to qualify as hot spots, according to Cuomos office. Travelers from those states must quarantine for  days if they visit New York, which was the nations epicenter earlier in the year. Minnesota, which was on the list, has been removed. New York reported  cases Tuesday, bringing the states total number of infections to more than ,. The state also reported two deaths, the lowest since the start of the pandemic, according to Cuomo. He said during a press briefing that the state liquor authority has suspended  bar and restaurant alcohol licenses for violations of social distancing rules as public officials try to keep the outbreak under control. Im sorry its come to this, but its a dangerous situation, and Ive said it many, many times, he said. We never opened bars. This was a violation by them from the beginning.