Medical experts urge HK govt to consider curfew
2020/7/21 19:13
In this May ,  file photo, Hong Kongs middle school students back to public schools in Causeway Bay after a fourmonth class suspension caused by the coronavirus pandemic. PARKER ZHENG  CHINA DAILY Two medical specialists are recommending that the Hong Kong government adopt a curfew and perhaps even a lockdown as the city faces growing pressure to contain a worsening third wave of the COVID pandemic. Yuen Kwokyung, a leading microbiologist in Hong Kong, said the authority should consider imposing a citywide curfew or a lockdown to prevent people from leaving their homes if the number of confirmed cases continues to rise in the next seven to  days. In an interview with a local radio program, Yuen cautioned the public to put on their masks and not to relax before a vaccine is available. David Hui Shucheong, a respiratorymedicine expert at the Chinese University of Hong Kong, said in a different radio interview that lockdown measures might be necessary if current measures fail to improve the situation. Public hospitals in Hong Kong would be overwhelmed within a week if nearly  cases were added daily and if most have an unknown origin, he said. Seventythree new infections were recorded on Monday. The SAR government announced on Sunday that a series of social distancing measures will be extended until July , including mandatory maskwearing in all indoor public areas and a ban on dining at restaurants from  pm to  am. Chuang Shukkwan, head of the Centre for Health Protections Communicable Disease Branch, on Monday said that in the  days from July  through Monday,  local infections were recorded, with about a third of the infections unlinked to confirmed cases or existing outbreaks, signaling that hidden chains of transmission are widespread. The citys tally of confirmed cases reached ,, including  related deaths. If the situation continues to deteriorate, the government may need to tighten measures to maintain social distancing and identify asymptomatic patients, Chuang said. Meanwhile, the citys Education Bureau announced on Monday that classes in all Hong Kong schools, including international schools and kindergartens, will not start before Aug  because of the worsening COVID pandemic situation in the special administrative region. Secretary for Education Kevin Yeung Yunhung said the government noticed that some schools had planned to start earlier than that. Yeung said special arrangements will likely be necessary for crossboundary students of secondary  to  students once the schools reopen, but are not likely to be made for Secondary  or junior classes at the beginning of the new school year. Lai Tszman, principal of Hing Tak School in Tuen Mun, said the school will fully cooperate with the policies, while ensuring students acquire skills and knowledge without going to the school. He also said that once the epidemic stabilizes, the school will deliver some makeup lessons for these crossboundary students, hoping that will help them catch up on their studies. Eric Chung Puiyeung, a secondary crossboundary student, said he is worried that the delay will affect his learning progress as he will have only six months to prepare for his college entrance examination if the new school year starts in September. Whats more, the commencement date for the new school year may be further delayed, he said. Although the school provided online courses during the pandemic, Chung said he preferred to attend class in person for more effective learning.