Africa Investment Forum unveils unified COVID response
2020/7/21 17:05
? A woman wearing protective face mask walks at the arrival terminal in Nairobi, Kenya on May , .  Founding partners of the Africa Investment Forum have unveiled a unified coronavirus response to support Africas private sector. In a virtual meeting held on July  for the forums founding, institutional and knowledge partners, the Africa Investment Forum revealed  projects across five sectors for priority funding consideration under its unified coronavirus response. The sectors include agriculture and agroprocessing, energy, health, information and communications technology and telecoms, as well as industrial and trade. Collectively, the  deals are from the forums current portfolio and amount to . billion. They will help increase the continents selfsufficiency and resilience against future shocks. The founding partners said increased and decisive investment will be the channel for Africas economic recovery postcoronavirus, and expressed confidence in the continents potential to rebound from the ongoing health and economic crises. Africa will come out of this pandemic, tough as it is, and will build better and stronger economies. As partners of the Africa Investment Forum, the premier investment platform for Africa, our gaze must be clear help Africa reboot its economy, said Akinwumi Adesina, president of the African Development Bank. Chinelo Anohu, the head and senior director of the Africa Investment Forum, pointed out the forum is not a talk shop. What we are trying to do is to focus our partners efforts on the platforms bankable deals from the  and  portfolio, as well as some new ones in , she said. We are concentrating not just on the health sector, but also on other sectors that will help jumpstart recovery across the continent. Anohu said deals more responsive to the pandemic are being curated, in order to provide muchneeded support to the private sector. Founding partners of the forum include the African Development Bank, Africa , Africa Finance Corporation, African ExportImport Bank, Development Bank of Southern Africa, Trade and Development Bank, European Investment Bank and Islamic Development Bank. Institutional partners include development finance institutions, multilateral development banks, commercial banks and institutional investors.