JJ Booster shot prompts an antibody surge
2021/8/26 10:28
In this file photo a dose of the Johnson and Johnson COVID vaccine is prepared at a mobile vaccination clinic at the Weingart East Los Angeles YMCA in Los Angeles, California on August , .  Johnson and Johnson said Wednesday that studies show a booster dose of its vaccine produced a ninefold increase in antibodies against the coronavirus compared with the vaccine on its own. The data comes from two Phase  studies conducted in the US and Europe, the company said in a statement. About , people in the studies got booster doses six months after their first doses of JJs vaccine. The company said it was working with federal officials, including the Food and Drug Administration FDA and Centers for Disease Control and Prevention CDC, on next steps to boost the effects of the vaccine and ready a possible booster shot. The findings come as the US is firming up plans to offer a third dose for those who received the Pfizer and Moderna vaccines. Those plans have so far focused on shots of Moderna and Pfizer, largely because federal regulators said they were waiting for the results of JJs booster study. The company is now positioning itself to join in the federal booster plan. Roughly  million people in the US have received the JJ shot, according to the CDC. Meanwhile, the FDA administrations full regulatory approval of Pfizers COVID vaccine on Monday is doing what it had been expected to do cause a rollout of vaccination mandates. Vaccine mandates are proliferating across the US, from Wall Street to cities and college campuses, pushing aside a hesitancy about insisting on vaccinations until the FDA approval. That FDA approval sparked the Pentagon into acting. On Wednesday it ordered military troops to get the COVID vaccine immediately, according to a memo from Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin, The Associated Press reported Wednesday. Pentagon spokesperson John Kirby said that on the active duty force,  percent is fully vaccinated, and we estimate just over  percent have at least one dose. In a memo to employees Tuesday, Wall Street firm Goldman Sachs said that any employee in the United States who isnt fully vaccinated by Sept  must work from home. It will also require fully vaccinated employees to undergo weekly coronavirus testing. The bank, which employs roughly , in the US, was also instituting a mask requirement for all common areas starting Wednesday. Vaccinations are available at many of the companys onsite health centers, Goldman said, and employees get a halfday of paid time off for each dose. Deloitte, the professional services firm, said it would require proof of vaccination for staff accessing its US facilities from Oct , which it noted was seven weeks after full FDA approval of a major vaccine. The new push for vaccine mandates hasnt been limited to financial companies. Delta Airlines CEO Ed Bastian wrote to employees Wednesday With this weeks announcement that the FDA has granted full approval for the Pfizer vaccine, the time for you to get vaccinated is now. He said the airline would introduce weekly testing requirements and a monthly health insurance surcharge of  for employees who dont take the vaccine. He said the surcharge will address the financial risk the decision to not vaccinate is creating for our company. CVS Health, which owns a health insurer and namesake pharmacy, said its pharmacists have until Nov  to be fully vaccinated, while others who interact with patients, and all corporate staff, have until Oct . The Service Trades Council Union, which represents Disney World cast members, also said that it had reached a deal that all employees should show proof of vaccination by Oct . Disney Cruise Line said Tuesday that it was requiring passengers over  years old to be fully vaccinated for sailings to the Bahamas. Ohio State University said Tuesday that the FDA approval had prompted it to require that all students, faculty and staff have at least a first dose of a COVID vaccine by Oct . Currently,  percent of the universitys community meets that requirement. Johns Hopkins University data on Wednesday showed , new COVID cases in the US on Tuesday and , deaths. On Tuesday evening, a press release from New York Governor Kathy Hochuls new administration acknowledged almost , more deaths in the state from the virus than had been counted publicly her predecessor, Andrew Cuomo, who left office on Monday. The governors office included the Center for Disease Control and Preventions tally of , COVID deaths in the state. Cuomos government favored a lower figure that counted only COVID deaths at hospitals, nursing homes and adultcare facilities. Ai Heiping in New York contributed to this story.