WHO Face masks not a substitute for other public health measures
2020/7/20 20:16
A member of medical staff swabs the mouth of a resident as she is testing him for a virus, during a nationwide lockdown for  days to try to contain the coronavirus disease COVID outbreak, in Alexandra, South Africa, on March , .  South Africans have been urged to adhere to coronavirus precaution measures as the caseload and deaths continue to rise in the Africas second biggest economy.? To date, its the most affected country in the continent, with , cases and , deaths as of Sunday. It also has the sixth highest number of confirmed coronavirus cases in the world.? In a statement on Sunday, Doctor Zweli Mkhize, the minister of health, said while the government had done its part, like mobilizing resources, faculty and where withal to effect necessary interventions, it cannot manage the virus unilaterally.? Mkhize called on all South Africans to adhere to recommendations pertaining to nonpharmaceutical interventions. Our ability to break the cycle of infection depends on our willingness to remain focused and disciplined and take nonpharmaceutical interventions seriously, he said.? Dr. Mkhize expressed concerns that fatigue seems to have set in with South Africans letting down their guard despite the surging number of infections. We see poor or no social distancing in communities. Masks are being abandoned or not worn properly and there is laxity setting in around frequent handwashing, he said. This will directly influence the rise in numbers in the next two weeks. We must all appreciate that there is a direct causal link between the surge of cases and our ability, or inability. Mkhize said in a time like now when there is no vaccine or cure for coronavirus, the ability to break the cycle of infection depends on peoples willingness to remain focused and disciplined, as well as taking nonpharmaceutical interventions seriously.? Mkhizes remarks came a day after the country lost a member of parliament, Martha Mmola, to the pandemic.? Mmola served as a permanent delegate to the National Council of Provinces for the African National Congress, representing the Mpumalanga province.? The virus also claimed the life of Zindzi Mandela, South Africas ambassador to Denmark and the daughter of the late Nelson Mandela, on Sunday. She died at a Johannesburg hospital at the age of . South Africa, which started reopening its economy on June , announced various revised level three lockdown regulations on July .? The regulations included a ban on alcohol sales, dispensing or distribution a curfew between  pmam and prohibition of family and social visits.? Interprovincial travel and the use of accommodation for leisure was also banned and taxis taking long trips were instructed to adhere to  percent occupancy.? The South African Democratic Teachers Union and National Teachers Union has been calling for closing schools that started reopening on June , citing the increasing coronavirus infections in the country. The unions said schools should reopen after the peak of the viral infection.