Cotton socks line path of success
2020/7/20 11:33
Here are some of the most striking images taken from around the world over the past week. Mourners attend the funeral of late Seoul Mayor Park Wonsoon at Seoul City Hall Plaza, in Seoul, on July , .  Fireworks explode near the Eiffel Tower at the end of Bastille Day celebrations in Paris, on July , .  A female student studies for the basic school certificate examinations under candle light after a blackout in her area in Khartoum, Sudan, on July , .  People walk over fallen trees and mud after flash floods swept through the village of Radda, leaving several people killed and dozens missing, in North Luwu, South Sulawesi, Indonesia on July , .  Beauty pageant winners of an auto show wearing face masks welcome visitors at the entrance of an auto show in Bangkok, on July , .  People wait for the screening of the French movie Le Grand Bain in cinema on the water on the Bassin de la Villette in Paris, on July , . The event cinema on the water was organized by Paris Plages Paris Beaches. Thirtyeight small electric boats and a few deckchairs were installed along the Bassin de la Villette in front of the giant screen.  An officiant wearing a face mask hosts a wedding in Mexico state, Mexico, on July , .  Fighter planes of the Republic of Singapore Air Force rehearse flying in formation in preparation for the National Day parade in Singapore on July , . Singapore will celebrate its th anniversary of independence on Aug .  President of the European Council Charles Michel R and European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen greet each other by touching elbows at the EU headquarters in Brussels, on July , . EU leaders are meeting physically in Brussels for the first time since March in a bid to find an agreement on the blocs next longterm budget, which would also include measures to help Europe recover from the coronavirus pandemic.  In this drone image, a mural of John Lewis is seen on the side of a building in Atlanta, Georgia, on July , . John Lewis, died aged , was an icon leader in the civil rights moment and the Voting Rights Act and served as a United States Congressman for  years. 