Textile industry to do more to tackle climate change
2020/7/20 10:06
President of the European Council Charles Michel L, Germanys Chancellor Angela Merkel C, Frances President Emmanuel Macron nd R and President of the European Commission Ursula von der Leyen pose during a meeting at the first facetoface EU summit since the coronavirus disease COVID outbreak, in Brussels, Belgium, July , .  BRUSSELSAcrimonious European Union talks over an unprecedented . trillioneuro . trillion EU budget and coronavirus recovery fund entered a third day on Sunday as the global death toll climbing. The pandemic, which has spawned health and economic mayhem worldwide, also resulted in the G considering extending debt relief for coronavirushit poor countries in the second half of this year. EU leaders in Brussels remained deadlocked on Saturday over the COVID recovery plan because of resistance from Austria, Denmark, Finland, Sweden and the Netherlands. European Council President Charles Michel was expected to propose another plan to the  leaders at noon on Sunday after his blueprints for a billioneuro  billion package were refused by the richer northern member states. Michels latest proposal would keep the total recovery budget at  million euros, but shift the balance slightly from grantsdown from  million to  millionto loans, which would rise from  million to  million, according to a document. German Chancellor Angela Merkel said in Brussels on Sunday that it was possible that EU leaders would not reach agreement on their third day of talks on plans to boost the blocs economies. There is a lot of goodwill but also many positions. I will make every effort, but it is possible that there is no result. Super emergency brake French President Emmanuel Macron said on Sunday that there was a willingness to compromise for agreement on an economic recovery fund at the European Unions summit, but it should not come at the cost of ambition for the bloc. Dutch Prime Minister Mark Rutte has insisted member states retain final approval, an effective veto, of any funding for recipients. EU oversight is necessary to oblige countries such as Spain and Italy to reform their economies to handle future crises better, he said. Michels latest plan included a super emergency brake that gives any country a threeday window to trigger a review by all member states of anothers spending plans. Barcelona, one of Europes most visited cities, in effect went back into lockdown on Saturday. Spains death toll of more than , is one of Europes worst, and more than  new virus clusters have been identified across the country in recent days. The regional government of Catalonia urged nearly  million residents of metropolitan Barcelona to stay home unless absolutely necessary, banning gatherings of more than  people and shutting cinemas, theaters and nightclubs. France, where masks will be compulsory in indoor public spaces from Monday, was closely watching coronavirus clusters in Spain, Prime Minister Jean Castex said. Agencies Via Xinhua