US should play constructive role in response to pandemic
2021/8/26 6:57
Passengers with face masks are seen in a bus in New York City, the United States, Aug , .  Officials and scholars have lashed out at the expected release of a day review by the United States intelligence community on COVID origins, saying that it will sabotage a global joint response toward the virus and betray science. Such a hasty review done by the intelligence community will only add to the number of questions, serve the US domestic political agenda, stoke racial hatred toward Asians and further worsen US ties with China, they warned. This week marks the end of the US intelligence communitys day review as instructed by US President Joe Biden, who reportedly received a classified report on Tuesday. The unclassified version has not been officially available so far. State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi said the US report will seriously disrupt international antipandemic cooperation, the US approach is antiscience, and its conclusion is bound to serve Washingtons own political purposes. All parties should be alert regarding attempts to politicize the tracing of the origins of the novel coronavirus, Wang said in a phone conversation with Dutch Foreign Minister Sigrid Kaag on Tuesday. Kaag said COVID origin tracing is a scientific issue and is expected to accumulate experience for responses to future pandemics. A World Health Organization report issued in late March on the completed joint study on the origins said a lab leak was extremely unlikely to be the origin of the coronavirus. However, Washington has claimed that the lab leak hypothesis remains valid. The Guardian newspaper published an article on Sunday titled The Wuhan lab leak theory is more about politics than science, saying that it is unlikely hard answers will be provided this week given the paucity of new information Bidens team will have unearthed over the past  days. Unnamed US officials told The Washington Post that the classified report of the day intelligence community review was inconclusive about the origins, including whether the pathogen jumped from an animal to a human or leaked from a Chinese lab. The US claim that it lacks information from China is just an excuse to cover up its failure of intelligencebased origins tracing, Foreign Ministry spokesman Wang Wenbin said on Wednesday. CNN reported on Tuesday that Asian American leaders are concerned that the US report will be used to legitimize racist language and lead to more antiAsian violence across the country. Ruan Zongze, executive vicepresident of the China Institute of International Studies, noted that wealth disparity in the US has widened amid the ravaging infections there and racial issues loom large, but the US has been seeking scapegoats to cover up its failure in COVID response. The US obsession with coercive diplomacy and politicizing origin tracing drastically diminishes the global COVID joint response, thus making itself the origin of a political virus. Such an obsession wont save the US, but will create a major divide in the world, Ruan said. Elliot Ziwira, a senior writer with the Zimbabwean newspaper The Herald, criticized politicking and smearing by countries like the United States of America against China. The persistent need to depoliticise the contagion and its origintracing refrain cannot be overemphasised, Ziwira said in an article published on Tuesday. Chen Xu, Chinas permanent representative to the UN Office at Geneva, sent a letter to WHO DirectorGeneral Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus on Tuesday. It is the labs of Fort Detrick and the University of North Carolina in US that should be subject to transparent investigation with full access, Chen wrote. Chen attached a joint letter from more than  million Chinese netizens to the WHO demanding an investigation into the Fort Detrick lab. The Fort Detrick labs monthslong shutdown in  was followed by cases of respiratory disease with symptoms similar to COVID in adjacent communities. A paper published by researchers from the University of North Carolina showed that as early as , the US institutes already had the capability to synthesize and modify SARSrelated coronaviruses, according to Fu Cong, directorgeneral of the Foreign Ministrys Department of Arms Control. The international community has grave concerns about all of the biomilitary activities of the US, including Fort Detrick for their lack of transparency and security, Fu said at a briefing in Beijing on Wednesday. Fu noted that the US once claimed that biological activities are not verifiable, which led to the halt of international negotiations in  on a verification protocol under the Biological Weapons Convention.