Chinas carriers allowed to compete on some international routes
2020/7/20 7:47
? People walk in the street at Tsim Sha Tsui in south Chinas Hong kong on July , .  Hong Kong reported its alltime daily high of  coronavirus cases on Sunday, as the government further toughened social distancing rules including reintroducing workfromhome arrangements for civil servants. The citys infection tally has been pushed to ,, with  related fatalities. Hong Kong Community AntiCoronavirus Link, a civil alliance, called on the government to arrange mass virus tests for residents and resort to the central governments assistance in testing when necessary. The latest infections, recorded from  pm Saturday to midnight, included a recordhigh of  locally transmitted cases,  of which were of unknown origin, said Chuang Shukkwan of the Centre of Health Protection. Chuang said there were more than  additional confirmed and preliminary cases discovered on Sunday and that were not included in the most recent daily count. The city has confirmed  COVID infections since July  when the worsening third wave of local outbreak was first detected, with  local cases related to various clusters in multiple districts, including at restaurants, schools, hospitals and elderly care homes. The source of about half the local cases could not be traced. Chuang said many recent patients were found to have attended different social gatherings, which added to the difficulties identifying the source of infections. She conceded that the city was currently unable to test every resident for the virus, and she urged residents to stay at home and avoid social activities in the following weeks. The latest figures came shortly after Chief Executive Carrie Lam Cheng Yuetngor announced that civil servants will resume working from home starting Monday and the government will provide only emergency and essential services. Meanwhile, maskwearing will be mandatory in all indoor public venues. Previously only passengers on public transportation were required to do so. The ban on the operation of bars and  other types of leisure venues will be extended to July , and dinein service at restaurants from  pm to  am will not be available before July . Lam said if the outbreak continues to escalate, the government will likely impose more restrictions on social life, including barring residents from leaving their homes, as many other places have done. She added that the government is converting Lei Yue Mun Holiday Village and AsiaWorldExpo to accommodate coronavirus patients with mild symptoms. Another , quarantine units will be built near Hong Kong Disneyland for similar purposes.