US Navy teams deployed in Texas to combat COVID
2020/7/20 6:55
A medical worker from?the Fourth Peoples Hospital of Xinjiang Uygur autonomous region collects a throat swab from a man at a residential community in Tianshan district,?Urumqi,?Xinjiang Uygur autonomous region, on July , . Photo by Shi Yujiangfor chinadaily.com.cn Urumqi, capital of the Xinjiang Uygur autonomous region, has launched mass novel coronavirus screening and restricted the movement of its residents in response to a new outbreak that rose to  cases as of Saturday. The city added  new locally transmitted cases on Saturday, down from  registered a day before. The first patient tested positive for the virus on Wednesday after no new local infections were reported across Xinjiang for nearly five months, according to local health authorities. Nationwide, three other confirmed cases came from overseas and a total of  asymptomatic cases were reported on Saturday, the National Health Commission said on Sunday. One of the imported confirmed cases and eight of the asymptomatic carriers are employees of China Petrochemical Corp, or Sinopec, the countrys largest refiner and petrochemical producer. They arrived in Qingdao, Shandong province, from Kuwait on a chartered flight on Friday. A total of  other passengers traveling on the same plane were identified and isolated for medical observation, according to Qingdaos health commission. Medical workers sort out nucleic acid test samples at a residential community on Qingnian Road, Tianshan district,?Urumqi,?Xinjiang Uygur autonomous region, on July , . Photo by Wang Xiaojunfor chinadaily.com.cn In Urumqi, the new outbreak is associated with a cluster of group activities and has developed at a relatively fast pace, Rui Baoling, head of the citys disease control and prevention center, said over the weekend. Most of the  confirmed patients as of Saturday had mild or moderate cases, and a total of  asymptomatic patients and , close contacts were in isolation for medical observation, according to Rui. She said the majority of newly confirmed and asymptomatic cases were detected in Tianshan district and they were all already placed under quarantine, so there was no need to panic. Zhang Wei, head of Urumqis health commission, said that the city was carrying out a citywide, free testing campaign beginning in neighborhoods that have reported new cases and among close contacts or residents with a fever, and it would gradually extend across the entire city. Twentyfive certified testing institutions and over , medical workers will be conducting the tests. A health worker sanitizes a vehicle at the entrance of a vegetable wholesale market in Urumqi, Xinjiang Uygur autonomous region, on July , . Photo by CHEN YANFOR CHINA DAILY On Saturday, the National Health Commission organized  teams consisting of  medical workers from  provinciallevel regions to boost the testing capacity in Urumqi. That includes a member medical team from Wuhan, Hubei province, the hardesthit region in China where the disease has been stamped out. The team also shipped over  items of testing equipment and medical supplies to Urumqi. Zhang added that as of  am Sunday, all residents being quarantined had received tests. Upon discovering the flareup of the virus, Urumqi has taken swift action to track down close contacts, halt public gatherings, reduce public transportation and curtail flights in and out of the city, according to the local government. Access to residential communities has been strictly limited and local residents are urged not to leave the city unless for essential reasons and must undergo tests before departure. People wear protective face masks as they walk in a shopping complex in Beijing, on July , .  Beijing lowers response The Beijing municipal government announced on Sunday that the emergency response level in the city will be lowered to the third level starting from Monday after reporting no new infections for  consecutive days. The capital activated the second level of response in a fourtier system on June  following the detection of a new outbreak linked to a major wholesale food market. A total of  confirmed cases were reported during the outbreak. Chen Bei, deputy secretarygeneral of the city government, said at a news conference that there is no highrisk area in Beijing and only one at medium risk. The epidemic situation is stable and controllable, and has met the requirements for downgrading response levels, she said. Public facilities including parks, tourist sites and sports venues across the city can reopen at  percent of daily visitor capacity, Chen said.