Britain to have inquiry into virus response
2020/7/20 0:00
WASHINGTONFrom the United States and South Africa to India, countries are struggling to hold down rising novel coronavirus infections, as deaths globally from COVID surged past , on Saturday in a sign of how far off the world remains from a return to normalcy. The World Health Organization on Saturday again reported a singleday record of , new cases. The number of confirmed cases worldwide has passed . million, out of which . million were in the United States. There are more than  million in Brazil and more than  million in India. South Africa ranks as the fifth worsthit country with , casesroughly half of all those confirmed on the African continent. And its struggles are a sign of trouble to come for countries with even fewer healthcare resources. Experts believe the true numbers around the world are higher because of testing shortages and data collection issues in some countries. Confirmed infections have doubled globally since early June, according to Johns Hopkins University. If deaths, which often lag weeks behind cases, follow a similar trend, the virus could become one of the top  global causes of deaths in the coming months. Infections are soaring in US states such as Florida, Texas, and Arizona, fueled by the haphazard lifting of lockdowns and the resistance of some US citizens to wearing masks. US President Donald Trump said on Friday that he would not consider an order at the national level mandating the use of masks, even as the US continued to break its singleday case record. Asked by Fox News Chris Wallace if he would consider issuing a national mask mandate to slow the spread of the virus, Trump said No, I want people to have a certain freedom and I dont believe in that. I dont agree with the statement that if everyone wore a mask, everything disappears, Trump added, after Wallace pointed out that the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said the virus would be brought under control if everyone wore a mask. Trump has been refusing to wear a mask himself since the pandemic broke out. He has been seen wearing a mask only once in public, when visiting the Walter Reed National Military Medical Center in Bethesda, Maryland, on July . Anthony Fauci, the nations top infectious disease specialist, has urged political leaders to be as forceful as possible in getting your citizenry to wear masks. The issue has become increasingly politicized, pitting Trumps supporters against his detractors. Recently, the debate has become increasingly contentious, with Republicans more likely than Democrats to reject a face mask mandate, citing a violation of peoples constitutional rights. New mask requirements A growing number of states have issued new mask requirements in the past weeks. Twentyeight states, Washington DC and Puerto Rico, have issued statewide mask mandates, according to an analysis by ABC News. In the Spanish city of Barcelona, police are limiting access to some of the citys beaches because sunbathers are ignoring regulations amid a resurgence of the coronavirus. Dutch authorities in Amsterdam are also urging people not to visit the citys famous red light district, and have closed off some of the historic districts narrow streets. In India, local governments continued to reimpose focused lockdowns in several parts of the country following a surge in coronavirus infections. In Iran, President Hassan Rouhani announced that as many as  million Iranians could have been infected, the staterun IRNA news agency reported. Iran has the Middle Easts worst outbreak with more than , confirmed cases. Xinhua  Agencies A worker checks passengers temperature in the departure terminal of Imam Khomeini airport, Teheran, on Friday. VAHID SALEMIAP ? ?