Trump rejects national mask mandate, denies masks effectiveness in fighting COVID
2020/7/18 14:38
US President Donald Trump wears a mask while visiting Walter Reed National Military Medical Center in Bethesda, Maryland, US, July , .  WASHINGTON  US President Donald Trump said Friday he wont issue an order at the national level mandating the use of masks, even as the United States continued to break its singleday coronavirus case record amid a pandemic far from being contained, and whether to wear masks has become a source of heated debate. Asked by Fox News anchor Chris Wallace if he would consider issuing a national mask mandate to slow the spread of the virus, Trump said No, I want people to have a certain freedom and I dont believe in that, no, according to a clip of the Fox News Sunday show, the full version of which will be aired Sunday. I dont agree with the statement that if everyone wore a mask, everything disappears, the president added, as Wallace pointed out that the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention CDC said the virus would be brought under control if everyone wore a mask. Dr. Anthony Fauci said dont wear a mask, our surgeon general  terrific guy  said dont wear a mask. Everybody was saying dont wear a mask, all of a sudden everybodys got to wear a mask, Trump said. And as you know, masks cause problems too. With that being said, I am a believer in masks. I think masks are good. Trump has been refusing to wear a mask himself since the pandemic broke out, citing his good health and frequent negative tests for the virus. He was seen wearing a mask in public for the first time on July  while visiting Walter Reed National Military Medical Center in Bethesda, Maryland, some three months after the CDC recommended that Americans do so because asymptomatic bearers of the virus could still transmit it to others. Along with the surge in coronavirus cases  topping . million after the mindboggling singleday record of , infections was set on Thursday, as per CDCs data  the mask issue has been politicized to the extent that it has become a symbol of allegiance Those refusing to wear masks support Trump while those donning them are against him. Earlier in July, White House Chief of Staff Mark Meadows also said the option of a national mask mandate was not on the table. He told the Fox  Friends program on July  that a national mandate is not in order. Were allowing our governors and our local mayors to weigh in on that. In recent weeks, though, even Republicans have rallied around wearing masks, with at least one GOP lawmaker bluntly suggesting that Trump himself do so publicly. Regretting the fact that the simple lifesaving practice of wearing a mask has been politicized to showcase whether one supports Trump or not, Republican Senator Lamar Alexander said on June  that he had suggested the president should occasionally wear a mask even though there are not many occasions when it is necessary for him to do so. Meanwhile, governors and municipallevel officials have requested that residents wear masks to halt the virus resurgence. While the governors of Arkansas, California and Colorado have issued mask mandates effective across their respective states, Texas Governor Greg Abbotts order applies to residents of counties with more than  coronavirus cases, effectively covering most counties in the state. In Georgia, however, Republican Governor Brian Kemp and state Attorney General Chris Carr, also a Republican, sued Atlanta Mayor Keisha Lance Bottoms, a Democrat, and the Atlantic City Council to block the mayors mask mandate, claiming that such an order put businesses in harms way and undermined the states economic growth, and that local orders must not exceed the states executive order in restrictiveness. The lawsuit, filed one day after Kemp issued an executive order overriding all local mask mandates in the state, intensified a partisan fight over how to handle the public health crisis in a state that is among the first to reopen. Georgia saw a resurgence of the virus, with the sevenday average of caseload recently hovering around , per day.