Latest on the novel coronavirus outbreak
2020/7/17 20:05
Hanane Thamik, a Morocco girl who has lived in China for six years, stays during the outbreak of COVID in the country this year.?Photo provided to chinadaily.com.cn Hanane Thamik, a Moroccan girl who has lived in China for six years, chose to stay during the outbreak of COVID in the country earlier this year, saying the care she received from Chinese made her feel warm and safe. I will never forget the time when my Chinese friends sent me to hospital after I got ill, and will always remember how my teachers gave me encouragement and help, Hanane said. She is an overseas student at Wuhan University in Wuhan, Central Chinas Hubei province, which was the hardesthit area in the country by the COVID outbreak. She made the choice to stay, even though  people from Morocco have left Hubei since the outbreak. Hanane Thamik, a Morocco girl who has lived in China for six years, stays during the outbreak of COVID in the country this year.?Photo provided to chinadaily.com.cn Love for China made Hanane tell her friends back home about her life and study in China. She also shared her moments in the country on social media, especially her time and experience at Wuhan University. According to Hanane, the university provided face masks, treatment for illnesses and food for free. It also taught her how to take protective measures to protect herself from crossinfection by the novel coronavirus. Wanting to make a contribution, she donated , yuan  to help the city fight the disease. China is my second hometown and I love her very much, she said, adding she would not leave the people that have helped her and have been proud of her. After living in China for some time, she received a Chinese name, He Xiaona. She is now a PhD student majoring in ecommerce at Wuhan University. Hanane Thamik, a Morocco girl who has lived in China for six years, stays during the outbreak of COVID in the country this year.?Photo provided to chinadaily.com.cn