Vaccines plus further precautions needed to stop pandemic warns WHO
2021/11/13 2:33
WHO directorgeneral Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus.  The head of the World Health Organization has stressed that vaccines alone can not end the pandemic. During a media briefing on Friday, WHO directorgeneral Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said while vaccines reduce the risk of hospitalization, severe disease and death, they do not fully prevent transmission. Some European countries are now reintroducing restrictions to curb transmission and take the pressure off their health systems, Tedros said. We continue to recommend the tailored and proportionate use of testing, masks, physical distancing, measures to prevent crowding, improve ventilation, and more. And get vaccinated when its your turn. Tedros warning comes after  million COVID cases were reported in Europe last week. This is the most in a single week in the region since the pandemic started, the WHO head said, adding that Europe reported some  thousand deaths, more than half of all COVID deaths globally last week. COVID is surging in countries with lower vaccination rates in Eastern Europe, but also in countries with some of the worlds highest vaccination rates in Western Europe, Tedros said. Its another reminder, as we have said again and again, that vaccines do not replace the need for other precautions. The WHO noted that with a right mix of measures, its possible for countries to find the balance between keeping transmission down and keeping societies and economies open. But Tedros said countries cannot vaccinate their way out of the pandemic. He added It makes no sense to give boosters to healthy adults, or to vaccinate children, when health workers, older people and other highrisk groups around the world are still waiting for their first dose. The exception, as we have said, is immunocompromised individuals. Tedros again criticized countries that have high vaccine coverage, and which are continuing to stockpile vaccines, when lowincome countries are still having to wait. He pointed out that COVAX, a worldwide initiative aimed at equitable access to COVID vaccines, is working. The initiative has shipped some  million vaccines to  countries and territories. To reach WHOs target of vaccinating  percent of the population of every country by the end of this year, we need an additional  million doses, about  days production, Tedros said. Vaccines alone will not end the pandemic, but we cannot end the pandemic unless we solve the global vaccine crisis.