Most early COVID cases in New York City trace back to Europe CDC
2020/7/17 9:59
A shopper wearing a protective mask tries on clothes at a retail store following the outbreak of the coronavirus disease COVID, in New York City, New York, US, July , .? WASHINGTON  Sequences of most early SARSCoVpositive specimens in New York City NYC resembled those circulating in Europe, suggesting probable introductions of the virus from Europe, other U.S. locations, and local introductions from within New York, according to a new report of the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention CDC on Thursday. To determine whether local transmission of SARSCoV could be detected, the NYC Department of Health and Mental Hygiene DOHMH conducted deidentified sentinel surveillance at six hospital emergency departments during March  to . DOHMH announced sustained COVID community transmission on March , before the United States imposed travel ban from Europe on March , according to the report. At this time,  NYC residents had confirmed COVID. The following week, on March , when only seven of the  patients with known exposure histories had exposure outside of NYC, the level of community SARSCoV transmission status was elevated from sustained community transmission to widespread community transmission, said the CDC. Although travel restrictions are an important mitigation strategy, by the time the European restrictions were implemented, importation and community transmission of SARSCoV had already occurred in NYC, said the report. Through sentinel surveillance during March  to , DOHMH collected  specimens from patients with influenzalike symptoms,  tested positive. Using genetic sequencing, CDC determined that the sequences of most SARSCoVpositive specimens resembled those circulating in Europe, suggesting probable introductions of SARSCoV from Europe, from other U.S. locations, and local introductions from within New York, said the report. The sequence from March , the earliest positive sentinel specimen collected, clustered with early sequences from Europe and United States, which also cluster with sequences from China, said the CDC. No sentinel sequences were directly connected to sequences from Wuhan, China, where the outbreak originated, said the report.