Mental health challenges know no boundaries
2020/7/17 9:13
? People wearing face masks following the coronavirus disease COVID outbreak look on at the Tsim Sha Tsui ferry pier in Hong Kong, China, on July , .  The COVID pandemic has had farreaching effects across all walks of life in the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region. However, the city remains in a much safer and stronger position than most. Many are paying a staggering cost in social and economic terms for failing to appropriately address the problem, often placing political or economic agendas ahead of scientific evidence or the health and safety of the people. Unfortunately, the coronavirus has activated a new breeding ground for another serious problem. Something that has historically been neglected, received minimal or some would say inadequate attention, will soon reach a tipping point at a very high cost to the community, placing further demands on a health service that is illequipped to deal with the problem mental health and related illnesses. Mental health issues are most often predominant in lowerincome communities where the necessity for families to simply survivecombined with poor nutrition, low living standards and the absence of financial securitydirectly relates to diminishing physical health and often triggers mental illness. However, it is a problem that knows no boundaries, and the effects on those closest to a person suffering from a mental disorder are often devastating. If some conditions are not diagnosed at an early stage, or if psychiatric care is inadequate or not provided, the effects can be extremely harmful and, in some cases, lifethreatening. Far too many cases result in attempted or actual suicide. The effects on people closest to those who suffer mental illness can also result in problematic behavioral patterns and mental illness. An increasing number of people are vulnerable to the stresses and strains experienced as a result of COVID. This will inevitably lead to a deterioration in public health and the early onset of mental illness for more people of all ages. In recent months, pressures seem to surround us. Massively diminished social engagement both at home or with friends and families abroad, the challenges of home learning, the general fear among those most vulnerable of catching the coronavirus, and the constant and widespread news coverage of rapid escalation of victims in many countries all combine to increase levels of anxiety that differ from individual to individual, with some being better equipped to cope than others. Over the past five months, many people have lost their jobs or have had working hours reduced, with the prospects of getting a new job becoming increasingly difficult. This has placed immense financial pressure on families, particularly where the income of more than one member of the family is affected. The Hong Kong SAR is ranked one of the top three most expensive places in the world to live, with an increasing number of people experiencing extreme hardship. The income gap continues to increase. Despite the slowdown in the economy and at best a bleak forecast for the short term, property prices remain staggeringly high, particularly in the rental market, with substantial increases seen in the lowest segments of the market. Weekly grocery bills have disproportionately escalated, and people are forced to eat at home because of restaurant closures and social distancing measures. More people have had to rely on charitable support, but the net result for many is a poor diet and more junk food. One of the key areas that has affected many people is the disruption to daily routines caused by social distancing and the closure of many places where people regularly congregate and socialize. Reduced personal interaction as well as the resulting isolation from family, friends, colleagues or customers have increased the levels of depression that can result in outbursts of anger. The situation was greatly exacerbated by the closure of kindergartens, schools and universities, which forced families together, often for extended periods in unsuitable conditions, depriving many of the social norms that feed their very existence. One sad manifestation is the widespread increase in domestic abuse. More often than not, the victims are women and children. Charity help lines are reporting a significant increase in calls for assistance. The government has not released any statistics during the pandemic, but in the opinion of many social workers and NGOs, there has been a significant increase. With COVID under relative control, it now falls on the government to ensure that all relevant departments have the understanding, knowledge and tools at their disposal to combat the increase in problems related to mental health. The author is chairman of The Multitude Foundation, a Hong Kongbased charitable trust.