COVID origins What has China done for origins tracing?
2021/8/25 10:22
A daughter speaks to her mother with possible COVID symptoms before she was taken to a hospital in Houston, Texas on Aug , .  There are only  hospital beds and not one intensive care unit bed in Iraan, a town of about , residents in west Texas. The only doctors in town are family physicians with emergency room experience. The closest hospitals to treat COVID patients that have ventilators, specialists and ICU beds are more than  miles away in Midland, Odessa and San Angelo. And COVID is taking a toll on the oilfield town and other rural communities in Texas. In recent weeks, about  residents of Iraan tested positive for the novel coronavirus and three of them had to be airlifted out for needed treatment, reported the Texas Tribune. No one in Iraan has died due to COVID, and no children have been hospitalized for it. The towns public school district shut down after only five days of classes because about onequarter of the school staff of , and  percent of the  students were either infected with or exposed to the coronavirus, according to Superintendent Tracy Canter. The opening of school will be delayed until Aug . Those numbers were more than the district saw for all of last year, she told the Tribune. The high infection rate makes it hard for such a small school district because employees may perform several jobs  teaching during the day and driving the bus when school is over. Iraan General Hospital CEO Jason Rybolt told CNN that  people were tested for the virus, and  tested positive during a twoweek August span  a  percent positivity rate. This is very serious, Iraan Mayor Darren Brown told CNN. Added resident Vicky Zapata, We had had COVID before, but never to this magnitude. Rybolt said he is very concerned for the community and very concerned for trying to make sure that they have the healthcare that they need. Of those residents who had to be airlifted elsewhere, he said that at least one was taken out of state because of a lack of available ICU beds in Texas. It could be  hours for coronavirusstricken people to receive a bed. It could be  hours. You just never know how long its going to take, Rybolt said. Three other rural districts in Texas also have temporarily closed some or all of their schools due to rising numbers of staffers and students being sick with COVID or in quarantine. Morgan Mill Independent School District with more than  students closed for a few days because half its staff is out with the virus. The Bloomburg Independent School District of more than  students and the Waskom Independent School District of more than  students in East Texas both closed for at least several days. All four school districts are in areas where fewer than a third of residents are fully vaccinated, the Tribune reported. Morgan Mill Superintendent Wendy Sanders said that even though half the school district staff is out sick, many of them dont want to be tested for the coronavirus. It was their personal choice to not get tested, Sanders said. I dont believe in taking away personal freedom of choice and enforcing testing. Closings of the small districts led the Texas State Teachers Association on Aug  to again call for Governor Greg Abbott to rescind his order against mask requirements. The group urged all educators and students in the state to wear masks to campuses, as recommended by healthcare experts. Unfortunately, the closure of these small school districts is more proof that the COVID pandemic is still dangerous and needs to be taken seriously by the governor and school officials, the organization said in a statement. People must get vaccinated, and educators and students need to wear masks to school. The four small districts will nonetheless follow the governors order. They wont require masks for students or teachers.