US Oklahoma governor tests positive for coronavirus
2020/7/16 9:29
US President Donald Trump listens to Oklahoma Governor Kevin Stitt during a roundtable discussion on the reopening of small businesses in the State Dining Room at the White House in Washington, US, June , .? WASHINGTON  The governor of the US state of Oklahoma said Wednesday that he tested positive for novel coronavirus, becoming the first governor to publicly confirm infection since the pandemic spread in the country. I got tested yesterday for Covid and the results came back positive, Governor Kevin Stitt told reporters. I feel fine I felt a little bit achy yesterday. The Republican governor said he was isolating himself from other family members and working from home. According to local media report, Stitt led a meeting of the Commissioners of the Land Office on Tuesday. He wore a mask around his neck, instead of covering his mouth with it, when hosting the meeting and answering reporters questions afterwards. Despite his positive test, Stitt didnt think it necessary to reinstate lockdown measures, saying that going back and bunkering in place doesnt remove the virus. Neither was the governor interested in reversing the states reopening. Its way way premature to think of slowing down or backing up, he said. Oklahoma has seen record increase of cases since President Donald Trump held a campaign rally in the city of Tulsa in the state on June , which Stitt also attended. The state recorded a total of , cases as of Tuesday, up  cases compared to the previous day, according to the latest data from Oklahoma State Department of Health. The death toll reached . Particularly in Tulsa, a senior local health official said the surge in cases might be linked to the Trump rally and the protests against it that happened at the time. The past two days weve had almost  cases, and we know we had several large events a little over two weeks ago, which is about right, Tulsa Health Department Executive Director Bruce Dart said during a news conference on July . So I guess we just connect the dots.