Burst of creativity for virtual graduations
2020/7/16 9:27
TIANJINThirtyone graduates from Tianjin University will have group photos to remember their graduation ceremony, even though none of them was able to be on campus. The students were unable to go to Tianjin due to COVID restrictions, so Han Xiaojun, , spent three weeks with three classmates designing the graduation photos. The four students used Photoshop to include each class member in images, which showed them in graduation robes. We were worried that our classmates might not have the chance to come back to school and get together to take a graduation photo, Han said. Im willing to take advantage of my photoretouching technique to make up for the regrets we might have. To make it look more realistic, their teachers also provided images of many important locations on the campus to use as backgrounds for the graduation photos. The photos show the students gathered in groups at different landmark buildings at the university. We often went to these places, which could revive memories. Thats a unique gift to record our college years, Han said, adding that his classmates were surprised and moved when they received the photos online. A total of . million students in China graduated from college this year. Due to the COVID pandemic, many universities held graduation ceremonies and celebrations online. On June , an online concert brought together thousands of Tianjin University graduates from different places. They posted comments and wellwishes online and sang along to the songs. Participants recorded parts at home that were integrated into a joint performance. The new graduates organized their graduation concert in digital form despite COVID. We wish all of them a bright future, said Guan Hong, secretary of the Youth League Committee at Tianjin University. At Nankai University, Tianjin, a livestreaming graduation party attracted over  million viewers on June . Hu Fuxin, , put on a yellow floral dress and watched the ceremony on her laptop from her home in Hubei province, which was hard hit by COVID. A total of  graduates and a few teachers, all wearing masks, were able to take part in person while the others attended online. Its the most important moment in my fouryear college life. Its a pity to be absent, but the school offered us much care and love, and tried its best to create a special one for us. I was deeply moved, Hu said. Nankai University made a promise to provide seats for members of the class of  to attend any graduation ceremony in the future. I feel I am loved by my university, Hu said. In addition, Hu received a heartwarming video from her roommates who shot video clips in places they frequented on campus and shouted Hu Fuxin, happy graduation! We are reunited in this video. It feels like shes right here by our side. We can feel the joy of graduating together, said Ma Hongying, Hus roommate.