NBA dress code mothballs players fashion statements
2020/7/16 9:10
PJ Tucker of the Houston Rockets says the NBAs new dress code at the leagues Disney bubble is crazy.  Add players famed fashion statements when entering the arena to the list of things excluded from the NBA bubble near Orlando, Florida. According to an ESPN report, players will be required to be in uniform and warmups when they arrive to the arena for their games at the ESPN Wide World of Sports Complex. Despite the fact that player entrances into the arena and down the tunnel into the locker room have become popular pseudoredcarpet shows, with some players using the opportunity to sport a variety of fashion styles, the NBA is telling players to get dressed in their full uniforms in their hotel rooms. From there, per ESPN, photographers will be waiting as players arrive at the primary game court at HP Field House. The players will then go to the floor for pregame stretching and shooting. According to ESPN, one factor behind the decision is that the team locker rooms at the arena do not have showers. Changing in close quarters without showering would be in conflict with the leagues desire to prioritize sanitation and social distancing, per the report. The league will have players leave the arena  minutes after the completion of their game and head back to their hotel. Rockets guard PJ Tucker, one of the players most famous for his attire and his sneaker game, laughed when told of the plan. That is crazy, said Tucker, according to the report. I think that takes away from originally what getting dressed was all about. It wasnt even about the tunnel walk, it was more about getting dressed up and going to work. To me, its like a mindset, getting dressed and getting ready to go to my game. It puts me in the mindset that Im ready to work and helps me find my focus. Getting dressed at the hotel now will feel like an AAU tournament, he added. Its AAU Nationals, its the Nike Super Showcase and one of those tournaments that we used to play in back in the day. Im not feeling it. It just doesnt feel NBA to me, but it is what it is. The report said that numerous players anticipate using their sneakers and customized masks to make their fashion statements. The NBA plans to resume its season with a doubleheader on July Utah vs New Orleans and the Clippers vs Lakers in an allLos Angeles battleas  teams will be in Orlando to first play for postseason seeding and then compete in the team playoffs. Rondo ruled out Los Angeles Lakers point guard Rajon Rondo suffered a broken right thumb in practice and will undergo surgery and be out for six to eight weeks. The injury happened in just the teams second day of practice since arriving in central Florida. Based on the recovery timeline, Rondo, , could rejoin the Lakers at some point in the playoffs, should the team still be playing when he is recovered. Entering his second season with the Lakers, Rondo was expected to take on added importance when the NBA season resumes after point guard Avery Bradley opted out of the remainder of the season. The Lakers signed veteran JR Smith on July  to take Bradleys place on the roster. Reuters