Bryant items fetch premium prices, Trout card sets record
2020/7/16 7:43
? People wearing face masks following the coronavirus disease COVID outbreak walk out of a train at a subway station near the Hong Kong Disneyland Resort in Hong Kong, China, July , .  Hong Kong reported  confirmed coronavirus cases and  preliminary cases likely to be confirmed pending further tests on Wednesday, its largest daily spike in new infections since the third wave of the outbreak started in the city in early July. The citys ninth and tenth fatalities related to COVID were also reported on Wednesday, including an yearold man and a yearold woman. The woman had chronic illnesses and caught the deadly virus at an elderly care home, according to Hong Kongs Hospital Authority. The home has become one of the biggest infection clusters in Hong Kong, with at least  residents and employees confirmed as infected and two deaths. As of  pm on Wednesday, the citys tally of COVID cases stood at ,. Of the  newly confirmed infections on Wednesday,  were locally transmitted and seven of them were of unclear origin. The Centre of Health Protection said all the preliminary cases are likely to be confirmed shortly. The city confirmed  new cases on Monday and  on Tuesday, about half of which were untraceable. From July  to , the global financial hub recorded  cases, including  local cases. Health authorities are still hunting for the sources of  local infections during the period, as concerns are mounting over expanding community clusters at restaurants, supermarkets, schools and elderly care homes. Health officials strongly urged Hong Kong residents, especially the elderly, to stay at home and not to visit markets and restaurants in the following two weeks. Also on Wednesday, the citys toughest social distancing rules to date took effect to battle what health experts said was the worst outbreak since January, including mandatory wearing of face masks on public transportation and banning dining at restaurants from  pm to  am. Bars and another  types of leisure venuesincluding beauty salons, gyms and karaoke loungeshave been closed until at least next Thursday, under a government measure announced on Monday to curb escalating community transmissions. Li Chakhei, the owner of a beauty parlor in Hong Kong, said these restrictions are necessary, given the ferocity of the third wave of COVID, although her business, which has plunged during the pandemic, would take another battering. Li said she was grateful for government subsidies she already received and expected the government to introduce more pertinent measures and reliefs to cushion the impact of the new coronavirus outbreak. An employee wearing a face mask, following the COVID outbreak, waits for customers at a food court in the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region on Tuesday. YIK LAMREUTERS