Greater checks needed to stop facial biometric data misuse
2020/7/16 7:14
A woman removes her mask to enable the use of facial recognition technology by a smart device in Beijing on Monday. The device automatically checks peoples body temperatures and personal information before allowing entry to the neighborhood.?LI TIANJIFOR CHINA DAILY It has come to light that individuals information, such as individuals facial biometric data, is being illegally sold online, drawing widespread concerns about personal privacy and property security. Reports say some lawbreakers are boldly selling individuals facial biometric data, acquired illegally from ecommerce platforms along with some internet tools and instructions on how to activate the data. On the internet, , sets of individuals facial data are sold for just , yuan ,., which means a persons facial data can be illegally purchased online for just . yuan. In recent years, facial recognition technology has been widely used by people, because they consider it safer than the traditional password method and difficult to duplicate. However, experts say it is possible to use a highdefinition photograph to simulate a face and cheat the facial recognition system. Individuals facial biometric data are crucial personal recognition information, which if illegally acquired by fraudsters, can be used for false online registrations or telecommunication frauds. That personal facial biometric data can be acquired online for a pittance has increased the publics concerns. Safeguarding facial biometric data requires efforts from various sides. The public should be cautious about any abuse of their facial data. But greater responsibility lies with the systems developers, lawmakers and supervisors. Those developing facial recognition systems should improve the technology and plug the loopholes. The supervisors should strengthen the fight against facial biometric data theft by improving the firewall of information security and cut off underground channels of illegally collecting and selling peoples facial biometric data, especially on ecommerce platforms. Lawmakers should improve legal protection for face information security to safeguard peoples legal rights and interests. And violators who reveal, sell, purchase andor illegally use others facial biometric data should be severely punished to curb such crimes. ?