Kenya resumes domestic passenger flights amid strict pandemic measures
2020/7/16 2:49
FILE PHOTO A Kenyan Airways plane comes in to land during the outbreak of coronavirus disease COVID, at the Jomo Kenyatta International Airport in Nairobi, Kenya, March , .  Kenyan airlines resumed domestic flights on July , amid strict measures to prevent the spreading of the novel coronavirus, after suspending operations for three months. Kenya Airways, Jambojet, Safari Link and Fly  are among the local airlines that resumed operations following the lifting of the cessation of movement in and out of Nairobi and Mombasa counties last week. The first flights were made from the Jomo Kenyatta International Airport in Nairobi to Mombasa and Kisumu at am and am respectively, marking the official return of operations by Kenya Airways. However, passengers have to wash and sanitize their hands repeatedly from the main gate up to the point of boarding planes, pass through temperature testing points and wear masks all the time. Sitting and queueing positions have also been rearranged to ensure social distancing, with signs placed at different points for passengers to know where to stand or sit, and reminding them to wear masks. According to Allan Kilavuka, Kenya Airways CEO, the airlines highest priority continues to be the health and safety of the passengers, crew, and staff. I want to thank our customers for giving us the opportunity to serve them and for trusting us to get them to their different destinations safely. A special mention to our staff for their outstanding contribution in ensuring that our customers continue to be reunited with their loved ones across our network, Kilavuka said. James Macharia, Kenyas Transport Cabinet Secretary, attended the inauguration of resumption of flights and said that the government would rely on their performance to decide if it would resume international flights. It is up to the Kenya Airways management to ensure it uses this period to grow demand. If the performance of domestic flights will be poor, we may have to reschedule reopening of international flights, Macharia said. Kilavuka said the airline will continuously review the protocols in place and update these where necessary to continue being ahead of the curve when it comes to safety.