COVID reflections  things we must do better in AC era
2020/7/16 0:00
COVID is a turning point for mankind. That isnt an overstatement as some are already talking in terms of the BC Before Coronavirus and ACAfter Coronavirus eras. Given the prognosis, it appears that a seemingly indeterminable transition from the BC age to the AC era has begun. What if the future is just one endless transition, and the AC era a chimera? Survivors may want to do two things  use the transition to review and reflect on the BC age getting restless, desperate or even despondent to return to normal is optional and futile and  envision the AC era. Heres my AC wishlist, based on BC experiences  Multilingual content Decadesold globalization has relocated people, and places are more cosmopolitan and hightech now. Nothing can justify anymore digital contentnews, information, apps, websites, information, communications, data, research, ecommerce, entertainment or softwarethat continues to exist or be made without a multilingual option. Owing to COVID, theres global thirst for knowledge theres urgent need for understanding, amity and informationsharing among people. A multilingual etool that can be seamlessly incorporated in all existing and new digital content is a sine qua non.  Stricter governance Be careful what you wish for. Rest assured, Im careful. We need governments the world over that can monitor people more effectively and ensure the latter behave responsibly and in a dignified, graceful manner, particularly in public places. Id rather not see people violating lockdown guidelines merely to crowd pubs, restaurants, raves, beaches, or sneezing without a mask on, or drinking, eating and then vomiting and micturating shamelessly on sidewalks.  Peoplelevel globalization Time for global integration out with nationalism, regionalism, protectionism, racism and closet supremacistism and jerkism, to coin two new words. We need to quickly evolve beyond economic, trade, business and market globalization. We need social, societal, cultural and moral globalization as well.  Just dues for key people Medical professionals, deliverymen, logistics staff, maids, nannies, rubbishremovers, cleaners are key to our survival. As a society, lets recognize and reward them better. Ecommerce platforms and hospitalsclinics should raise their remuneration. Consumers should be enabled to etip them directly.  Innovative cinemas Hypercustomization, private groupscreenings can revive cinemas, if they guarantee social distancing, COVID safety and options for movie fans to choose what they want to watch and when, with custom subtitling and dubbing, irrespective of the original language of the content. Not just feature films, even documentaries should be screened.  Enthrone the customer Make the BC age fictioncustomer is kingan AC era fact.  Responsible Big Tech Ignorance and helplessness of lay users should not be exploited to marginalize them, or to invade their privacy, mine personal data unethically, amass profits, flout rules, evade taxes, create monopolies or cartels, influence elections, destabilize governments.  Reflections Theres more to life and living than consumerism, pubs, raves, beaches, incomes and profits. New hectic lockdown routines within the four walls of home dont mean resilience and adaptability, but surviving, existing mindlessly, like slaves of manufactured busyness. Meditate. Breathe. Calm down. Be grateful. Recognize lifes fundamentally finer aspects.  Reject destruction Whatever the cause, dont destroy that which we have all helped create assiduously. Resources are finite. Lets not misapply creative destruction.  Community, society, environment, climate and planet Lets take them more seriously. Postscript Has the BCtoAC transition come and gone already? Are we now in the initial stages of the AC era? Are we in denial about the passing of the BC age, and madly, irrationally longing for its return, little realizing that the past cant be recreated? Is coming to terms with, and embracing, the AC era the only option available now? Contact the writer at sivachinadaily.com.cn Siva Sankar