Pressure builds on NBA bubble after Westbrook infected
2020/7/15 9:34
Houston Rockets guard Russell Westbrook  passes the ball against the Minnesota Timberwolves in the second quarter at Toyota Center,?Houston, Texas, US,?Mar , .  Houstons Russell Westbrook hasnt made it to the NBA restart yet. The coronavirus didbut health protocols seemed to work as the league and its players hoped they would. On a day of troubling news for the leagueWestbrook revealing that he has tested positive for the virus and two other players facing day quarantines for leaving the league campus perimeter at Walt Disney World near Orlandoit was also announced that two players tested positive for the virus after arriving in Central Florida last week. But neither of those positive players ever made it out of quarantine, so neither entered the socalled bubble and could mingle freely with other players, coaches and staff. The NBA said both players, neither of whom were identified, have since left the campus to isolate at home or in isolation housing. They could rejoin their teams later. Our protocols are unbelievable, said Toronto Raptors guard Kyle Lowry, one of the players who helped craft the restart rules. I think our protocols and our health and safety measures have been top notch. I think this thing will work perfectly. Were doing everything that we can possibly do to make sure that were healthy, were safe and were in an environment where we can be successful and do our jobs at a high level. Its unclear when Westbrook will arrive. As recently as Sunday, the Rockets believed that Westbrook, NBA scoring leader James Harden and newly reacquired Luc Mbah a Moutenone of the three traveled with Houston last weekwould be with the team in the next few days. In Westbrooks case, that now seems most unlikely. I tested positive for COVID prior to my teams departure to Orlando, Westbrook wrote on his social media channels. Im currently feeling well, quarantined, and looking forward to rejoining my teammates when I am cleared. The arrival dates for Harden and Mbah a Moute are murky as well. Neither player has revealed why they arent at Disney, and Rockets coach Mike DAntoni would only say that these are things that people are dealing with. DAntoni said Westbrook had taken part in individual workouts when they were permitted back in Houston, but declined to elaborate further on the guards condition. He also isnt sure when the missing Rockets will arrive. I did have one year of premed, DAntoni said. But I dont know when its going to happen. As soon as protocols get out of the way ...theyre all anxious to get here and theyre doing what they need to do to stay in shape. This is not going to set us back. Were not going to let it set us back, and were going to be ready to roll here in the next two, three weeks. Westbrook is averaging . points, eight rebounds and seven assists per game for the Rockets this season. Houston has clinched a playoff spot and resumes its season with the first of eight seeding games on July  against Dallas. Im praying for his safety and the same for his family, Phoenix guard Devin Booker said. Hopefully he can get healthy and get down here as soon as possible. The league also said on Monday that  players newly tested positive since July  during inmarket testing, meaning tests done before teams began arriving at Disney on July . Upon arrival at Disney,  players were tested with the two positives. All we can do is try to stay optimistic about it and positive, and hopefully we can finish this season, said Los Angeles Clippers forward Kawhi Leonard, the reigning NBA Finals MVP. Inside the NBA bubble, however, there was optimism that the rules established by the league and the players will workeven though some Disney parks reopened to visitors over the weekend and the MLS restart, also at the campus, has seen two teams leave after a spate of positive tests. Its a condition, a virus, that does not discriminate, Phoenix coach Monty Williams said. And were trying to do everything we can to keep our guys safe. Those protocols that Lowry spoke of were designed to be taken seriously, and at least two players inside the NBA bubble have already paid a price for violating quarantine upon their teams respective arrivals last week. Sacramentos Richaun Holmes revealed Monday that he briefly and accidentally crossed the NBA campus line to pick up a food delivery. Under the NBAs rules of the restart, he now has to spend  days in quarantine. I apologize for my actions and look forward to rejoining my teammates for our playoff push, Holmes wrote. Also Monday, an anonymous source told Associated Press that Houstons Bruno Caboclo was also serving a day quarantine for crossing the campus line. Mondays developments came on a day where more than , new cases were confirmed in Florida, one the virus hot spots in the US. And officials in Houston also called for that city to lock back down as area hospitals strain to accommodate patients. Westbrook also offered a word of caution. Please take this virus seriously, Westbrook wrote. Be safe. Mask up! Associated Press