COVID origins tracing should not be politically motivated, says Bangladeshi FM
2021/8/25 7:39
Former Olympic champion gymnast Xing Aowei left and actress Jin Ming right promote products via livestream for an online shopping platform. Photo provided to China Daily Former Olympian attempts to make his mark in a whole new online arena, Xu Lin reports. Retired gymnast Xing Aowei, , carefully places a cosmetic mask on his face in front of a mirror. Its a scene from a short video interview about him that has gone viral on the internet. As an amateur livestream hostserving as a top salesperson on online shopping platformshe is promoting masks and sharing his skin care secrets. In , Xing, together with his five teammates, won gold in the mens artistic gymnastics team final at the Sydney Olympics. It was the first Olympic gold medal that China won in the mens gymnastics team event. People online have been actively discussing the former Olympic champion who sells masks via livestreams after retirement, and views of the topic garnered more than . million hits on microblogging platform Sina Weibo. According to the China Internet Network Information Center, the number of users watching livestreaming ecommerce shows in the country had been more than  million as of December , accounting for nearly  percent of the entire online population. I like to challenge myself and experience something new, says Xing, who only started promoting and selling products via livestream in June. Livestreaming for four or five hours continuously is tiring, but its also great fun. My life philosophy is simplekeep a healthy mind and try your best to do things that you like. Thats what Im doing right now, he says. His life after retirement from competitive sport has been active and colorful. He has numerous hobbies, ranging from diving, climbing and racing, to global travel. He has left his footprints in remote places such as the Antarctic and Arctic regions. On his travels he often visits museums and landmarks. He participates in reality shows and commercial events, for example, to promote gymnastics, and takes part in publicservice activities. Now, his interest has shifted to being a livestream host. Its a parttime job. Ive not only improved my eloquence, but also learned about various, welldesigned products and developed new skills. I also enjoy working with my energetic team, he says. He and his team choose items to promote carefully, ensuring that they are top quality, and he uses them before undertaking any promotional activity. He welcomes fans to ask questions about his expertise during livestreams, whether it pertains to gymnastics, fitness or even Chinese history. He mainly promotes products related to fitness, such as lowcalorie snacks and portable bodybuilding equipment, as he often uses these products in his daily life. There are similarities between gymnastics and livestreaming. There is a burden of responsibility in both, but in a contest, there is much more pressure, and if he, as an athlete, made a mistake, he would rarely get a second chance. Xing keeps fit in a gym in Beijing. After retirement from competitive sport, he has more time for his hobbies. Photo provided to China Daily Accidents will happen during livestreams, especially since Im a newcomer to the field. When you fumble for the right word or expression, you have to keep your wits about you. Its important that youre doing it in earnest, he says. He suggests that customers only buy things they need and emphasizes the importance of rational consumption. He understands that social networking sites are an integral part of peoples modern lives and that in big cities, where the pace of life is fast, online shopping can save time. Livestream hosts should do their due diligence and select good products and offer them at a reasonable price to customers. He says that, due to the sporadic COVID outbreaks in China, he has canceled some planned domestic business trips and offline events, but that means he can focus more on his online activities and livestreaming job. Xing posted an explanation on his Sina Weibo when he said No matter at any stage of life, people should radiate their light and heat to those around them, just like the sun. I choose to bring laughter to viewers and encourage them to keep fit via my livestreams. Retired Olympic racewalking champion Wang Liping forwarded the post and commented that athletes, when they retire, can change direction and do new things. According to Xing, in China, a gymnast, on average, starts training at the age of  and retires at . When Chinese Olympic champion gymnasts retire, they choose different options for life beyond the arena. Xing says that some like to stay involved with the sport, becoming coaches or taking jobs in provincial sports bureaus, and in the early days, some would work as coaches abroad. Some start their own businesses, usually related to sports, and some enter the entertainment sector, taking part in reality shows or even, like female gymnast Liu Xuan, trying their hand at acting. When Xing retired from the national gymnastics team at the end of , he coached for the following five years, nurturing the next generation of athletes. My life didnt change much. Everything was done in a systematic waydormitory, training room and canteen, just like the old days, he says. The difference was that I shouldered more responsibility, because, as a coach, I had to be responsible for my students. However, as just a gymnast, I only had to take care of myself. But some things dont changeespecially the indomitable spirit and love for gymnastics. He was invited by some online shortvideo platforms to be a commentator on the artistic gymnastics at the recent Tokyo Olympics. The Chinese mens artistic gymnastics team missed out on the gold medal and finished third behind the Russian Olympic Committee and Japan. The brutal reality about a competitive sport is that there is only one gold medal, he says. Therefore, for athletes, our first aim is to win it. Although we compete with athletes from other countries, were good friends when were outside the arena. He says audiences should view such contests in a rational way and not judge a person by their success or failure. While nowadays, Olympic champions can communicate with fans through social networking sites, in the past, the general public could only get to know champions like Xing through the coverage they received in traditional media. Xing recalls that, after winning Olympic gold in , his life remained pretty much the same as before, except that he received more fan letters. He continued his normal training regimen, always preparing for the next major contest. For the current gymnasts, they dont have much time to relax. Theyre always on the go, preparing for national and international contests. Chinas th National Games is scheduled for September, and the Paris Olympics is just three years away, he says.