Curry anxious to add Olympic gold medal to his trophy case
2020/7/15 8:59
German Ambassador to the United Nations Christoph Heusgen C presides over a Security Council meeting at the UN Headquarters in New York, July , .  UNITED NATIONS  The Security Council held an inperson meeting on Tuesday at UN Headquarters in New York, the first of its kind since midMarch when COVID forced the council to convene virtually. In light of recent developments regarding the containment of COVID in New York, the UN Security Council together has decided to begin a gradual and phased shift toward inperson meetings here at the UN Headquarters, of course, while ensuring all health precautions, Christoph Heusgen, the German UN ambassador, told reporters before he presided over the Security Council meeting. The meeting was held in the Economic and Social Council Chamber instead of the Security Council Chamber, where the council usually meets. The change of venue is obviously out of the need for social distancing. The Security Council Chamber, with a horseshoeshaped table in the center, is less desirable for such a purpose. Participants of Tuesdays meeting were seated sparsely in a large circle in the Economic and Social Council Chamber, with many of them wearing face masks, live video feed shows. Briefers who are currently not in New York delivered their statements via video teleconference. Reporters were denied physical access to the Economic and Social Council Chamber. The restriction was to minimize risk, said the UN Media Accreditation and Liaison Unit on Monday night. Tuesdays meeting agenda was a heavy one. The council first adopted its annual report to the UN General Assembly before the adoption of two resolutions one on the UN Mission to Support the Hodeidah Agreement, the other on youth and peace and security. The council then heard a briefing on the peace process in Colombia. Heusgen, whose country holds the Security Council presidency for the month of July, said his delegation intends to have a few more inperson meetings before the end of July. Heusgen said Tuesdays inperson meeting was the result of a unanimous decision of the  members of the Security Council. He said he would discuss with other council members after Tuesdays meeting to see whether further inperson meetings would be arranged. Germanys position is that Security Council meetings should go gradually in this direction, he said. We were pushing, as the presidency, for this. We have everybody on board. And now I want to see how colleagues react. We havent made any concrete plans. But to give you a German response yes, we would like to have a few more meetings before the end of our presidency here at the UN Headquarters. Heusgen said virtual meetings cannot replace inperson diplomacy. But he added that the safety of everyone involved is a priority. We will continue to be very careful, he said. The Security Council began to convene via video teleconference in midMarch after restrictive measures were implemented at UN Headquarters in New York in response to the COVID pandemic. The last inperson meeting of the Security Council was held on March . After that it had to shift to interim procedures for the conduct of its business, including how meetings are convened and how resolutions are adopted. No interpretation between languages was made available in the meetings via video teleconference. In Tuesdays inperson meeting, several representatives were pleasantly surprised by the fact that they could speak their mother tongue in interventions.