Collapsed hotel in Fujian was illegally constructed
2020/7/15 3:32
FILE PHOTO People are seen in Regents Park with the BT Tower in the background, following the outbreak of the coronavirus disease COVID, London, Britain, May , .  The number of deaths in England and Wales that have seen COVID mentioned on the death certificate has passed the , mark, according to new figures from the Office for National Statistics, or ONS. On the same day, new rules about the wearing of face masks in shops were announced, government statistics revealed that between Dec  and July , , deaths involving novel coronavirus were registered in England and Wales. In addition, a new report from the Academy of Medical Sciences, commissioned by Patrick Vallance, the governments chief scientific adviser, has warned a second wave of novel coronavirus infections could see the death toll rise to , by next summer, in a reasonable worstcase scenario, with a peak coming in January and February. The announcements came at the same time as new guidelines on face masks were revealed, marking a sharp aboutturn in government policy from just  hours earlier. On Sunday, senior Cabinet minister Michael Gove told the BBC that he would encourage people to wear face masks in places such as shops, and that it would be basic good manners, courtesy and consideration to wear one, but he did not think they should be made compulsory. But two days later, the government announced that, in addition to public transport, where they are already required, it would now be compulsory to wear face coverings in shops. However, this rule does not come in until July , which will be  days after the most recent World Health Organization guidelines on mask wearing were updated. Health Secretary Matt Hancock told Parliament that the enforcement of mask wearing is of course a last resort and said he expected the public to comply with these rules. The liability for wearing a face covering lies with the individual, he continued. Police have formal enforcement powers and can issue a fine. Metropolitan Police Federation Chairman Ken Marsh said shopkeepers would need to take responsibility as it would be impossible for the police to enforce the rule. They can quite easily put signs up on their doors No mask on, no entry, this is private property, he told the BBC Todayprogram. Labour MP Ben Bradshaw called the government response a total shambles. Five months into the pandemic, well beyond the first peak, they make face masks compulsory now, when most other countries have mandated them in enclosed public spaces for months, he tweeted. Rachel McCloy, an associate professor in applied behavioral science at the University of Reading, told the Guardian that a clear, simple message about maskwearing could make a huge difference to how effective the move is. Based on the current evidence base, wearing masks in situations where we cannot easily adhere to strict social distancing is a vital part of our efforts to avoid a second wave of COVID, she said. Other countries around the world have been very successful in adopting masks, and there is no reason why, with clear policies and consistent messaging from the government that the UK cannot show similar levels of success. The economic recovery is also off to a slower start than expected, as in May, the easing of lockdown saw monthly growth of just . percent, rather than the hopedfor figure of around  percent. Overall, the UK economy is now . percent smaller than it was in February, largely down to a record slump of . percent in April, and the ONS said it remained in the doldrums. Chancellor of the Exchequer? Rishi Sunak said the figures underline the scale of the challenge we face, which was why he was committing so much money to significant and targeted support to put peoples livelihoods at the center of our national renewal. Frances OGrady, general secretary of the Trades Union Congress, said more than just oneoff job retention measures would be needed to avoid mass unemployment and the damaging consequences. The more people we have in decent work, the faster we can move out of recession, she said. The Northern English town of Blackburn could be the latest to subject to a localized lockdown after mass testing began following an outbreak of  new cases within a week. Residents of the East Midlands city of Leicester will find out on Thursday if their local measures are to be relaxed or maintained.