Ironclad friendship shows its strength
2020/7/15 0:00
China is more than capable of stabilizing its foreign trade and promoting the highquality development of imports and exports in the second half of this year, officials and experts said on Tuesday. Chinas foreign trade rose . percent on a yearly basis in June, with exports up . percent and imports growing . percent, according to data released on Tuesday by the General Administration of Customs. Despite the countrys foreign trade being confronted by many uncertainties due to the COVID pandemic and many countries weak purchasing power, there was a notable surge in the countrys manufacturing activities and trade last month, said Wei Jianguo, vicechairman of the China Center for International Economic Exchanges. Junes trade data showed that global market demand is recovering and the countrys exportoriented companies received more orders from foreign clients last month, especially from member economies of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations and countries and regions related to the Belt and Road Initiative, he said. External demand will gradually pick up, since other countries, such as the United States and France, started to boost their manufacturing and service sectors over the past two months. While the global industrial chain is in the process of reshaping, Chinas early economic recovery and complete industrial chain will help boost its exports in the second half, said Zhang Yu, chief analyst at Huachuang Securities. Chinas foreign trade declined . percent yearonyear to . trillion yuan . trillion in the first half of the year, with the rate of decline falling by . percentage points compared with the figure in the first five months of this year, the GAC said. Although the World Trade Organization predicted in April that global trade would fall by between  and  percent in , Li Kuiwen, the GACs spokesman, said Chinas foreign trade in the first half of this year was better than expected, with imports as well as exports registering positive growth in June. Chinas exports of epidemic prevention and control supplies surged sharply between January and June. Its textile exports, including face masks, rose . percent yearonyear. In the meantime, exports of medical materials and medicines jumped . percent, and those of medical equipment and devices rose . percent, said the customs authority. Li said China will continue to improve its export tax rebate policy, enhance supply and industrial chains, increase foreign trade credit placement, establish new crossborder ecommerce pilot zones and support exportoriented enterprises in selling more goods in the home market to help foreign trade enterprises overcome difficulties and secure foreign orders. Chen Geng, chairman of Fuzhoubased FashionFlying Group, a largescale outdoor garment manufacturer, said his company will partner with more crossborder ecommerce service providers and domestic ecommerce platforms, such as Tmall, to further diversify its sales channels in both the global and domestic markets. The value of its foreign orders dropped  percent on a yearly basis to  million in the first half of this year, due to several clients canceling their shipments in the second quarter. Supported by over , employees at its manufacturing bases in China, Vietnam, Ethiopia, Rwanda and Bangladesh, the company shifted a part of its business from producing outdoor jackets and sleeping bags to protective clothing to offset losses from insufficient foreign orders between February and May. As many countries have accumulated enough medical supplies, we only produce a small proportion of protective clothing now and will continue to make breakthroughs in product design and the innovation of new fabrics to secure our longterm global market share, said Chen, adding that the groups research and development department has been expanded to  employees this year. Contact the writers at zhongnanchinadaily.com.cn An employee works on a production line for spandex, a material used in making face masks, in Lianyungang, Jiangsu province, on June . Employees have been working extra hours to ensure ontime delivery and quality after receiving trade orders from Italy and Mexico. WANG CHUNFOR CHINA DAILY Chinas foreign trade in the first half of  CHINA DAILY