Foreign trade stabilizes in st half of year
2020/7/15 0:00
NUC Electronics NUC Electronics is a professional kitchen appliance manufacturer from South Korea. The company, with more than  products, has brought the concept of quality and a healthy lifestyle to consumers in more than  countries and regions. Product highlights at the third CIIE The company will bring one of its latest smart juicers to the CIIE.Through the internet of things that connects the machine with a mobile app, it can provide consumers with fitness videos and healthy juice recipes based on the users body condition. Seiyi Beauty Corporation Natural skin care brand Megumi no Honpo was developed by Seiyi Beauty Corp in . All of its products are made of spring water from Okayama. Megumi no Honpos star products are spring water facial masks. Product highlights at the third CIIE The company will display highend products including a type of facial mask, a sunscreen spray and a facial cleanser made with sea mud. These products will be launched in synchronization with the Japanese market. Karcher Karcher is one of the worlds largest cleaning equipment developers. The company has more than , products. It has obtained more than , patents and registered designs. Product highlights at the third CIIE Karcher will bring a full range of steam cleaning machines for household, industrial and commercial use. The disinfection and sterilization effectiveness of the machines have been verified by an independent laboratory in Germany. BSH Hausgerate BSH, founded in , is a leading household appliance manufacturer in Germany. The group was initially formed by Robert Bosch and Siemens, and became a whollyowned subsidiary of Bosch Group in . Product highlights at the third CIIE The company will display a telescopic cooker hood, which can retract into a kitchens upper cabinet. It will be the first offline demonstration of the product. It will also display a clothes dryer, one of the most advanced clothing care products of BSH. Vorwerk Vorwerk is a German company with more than  years of history. It is among the first batch of companies that registered for the third CIIE. Vorwerk will increase its exhibition area by nearly  percent yearonyear at the upcoming event. Product highlights at the third CIIE At the third CIIE, it will release new products developed based on insights into the Chinese market. Vorwerk will continue to bring quality to every Chinese family with better technology and products, and make contributions to the revitalization and development of Chinas economy. Shiseido Born as the first Westernstyle pharmacy in , Shiseido is now a global beauty giant with operations in  countries and regions. Shiseidos history and tradition is characterized by a long string of innovations which combine technology and aesthetics from both East and West. Product highlights at the third CIIE Shiseido will bring several new brands and products to the third CIIE. Ginza, the top luxury brand of the company, and Baum, a highend skin care brand launched in the first half of this year, will be displayed at the event. Miji Miji focuses on developing, manufacturing and selling high quality kitchen appliances. Currently, Miji is one of the largest manufacturers and suppliers of highquality radiant furnaces in China in terms of retail sales. Product highlights at the third CIIE Miji will showcase a new product namely Miji Star  FormatA at the  CIIE. It features strong power, uniform heating, precise temperature control and lowtemperature cooking. The second generation mobile cooking kitchen system known as Moving Table, will also be launched. Laurastar Laurastar is a leader in professional ironing care systems with presence in more than  countries and regions. Laurastar focuses on innovation and is committed to developing new technologies that subvert tradition. Product highlights at the third CIIE Laurastar will launch a new product, namely the IGGI handheld purification steam ironing machine, which can instantly disinfect clothes and household goods. ?