Australian travel bans lowered COVID cases by  pct study
2021/8/25 0:00
More children than ever have been treated for COVID in hospitals in the United States as the Delta variant hits communities. Hospitalizations for children with COVID have spiked and reached their highest levels last week, according to new data from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, which said the rate was  percent above the previous peak. More than , children tested positive for the coronavirus last week, a  percent increase in cases since the beginning of the month. Child cases have had a fourfold increase in the past month, rising from about , at the end of July to , the past week, according to the American Academy of Pediatrics. For the week ending Thursday, children accounted for . percent of new cases. While the US Food and Drug Administration granted full approval of the PfizerBioNTech COVID vaccine for people aged  and older on Monday, children under the ages of  are not yet eligible to be vaccinated. Vaccination rates for those between the age of  and  also remain relatively low. Pfizers vaccine was first approved for emergency use in December. It continues to be available under emergency use authorization for young people aged  to  and for the administration of a third booster shot for immunocompromised individuals. The full approval came as the Delta variant is driving up infection rates and COVID patients are filling hospitals across the country. According to the CDC, . percent of teenagers aged  and  have received one dose of the vaccine. Among those aged  to , that number is . percentthe lowest vaccination rate for any age group. As of Aug , hospitals were tending to an average of more than , children a day, twice the figure from the end of July and four times more from the start of July, according to an NBC News analysis based on data released by the Health and Human Services Department. Pediatric hospitalizations are the highest in Alabama, Florida, Delaware, Louisiana and Oklahoma. With the exception of Delaware, full vaccination rates in these states are below the average national rate. Childrens hospitals are facing more cases as schools reopen. Thousands of schoolage children were quarantined over the past week due to coronavirus outbreaks in schools. In Florida, nearly , students and school employees had to be quarantined after more than , coronavirus cases were identified among the states  largest school districts since the start of school. Childrens Hospital New Orleans has had as many as  children hospitalized for COVID at a time in the past three weeks, said Mark Kline, the hospitals physicianinchief, to The Wall Street Journal. Kline said the number never exceeded seven in . Delta infections About half of the children hospitalized recently did not have underlying conditions, he said, whereas before the Delta variant arrived, most children who were hospitalized for COVID had other health issues such as asthma or diabetes. Kline said he suspects the Delta variant likely does cause more severe disease in children than other variants. Pfizer plans to seek booster authorization as well as full approval of its vaccine for people aged  to . Moderna, whose vaccine under emergency use authorization adopts similar mRNA technology, is in the process of completing data submission for its request for full approval. Johnson Johnson plans to file for full approval later. Pfizer plans to market the vaccine under the name Comirnaty. It took the FDA less than four months to grant Pfizer the approval, though the normal time frame is about  months. Since the beginning of the pandemic, more than . million people in the US have been infected, and more than , have died from COVID, according to data from Johns Hopkins University. Contact the writer at minluzhangchinadailyusa.com. Pupils head home on Monday after their first day back at school in Miami. Schools in MiamiDade County opened the same day with a strict mask mandate. LYNNE SLADKYAP