New technologies aid epidemic prevention and control
2020/7/14 8:59
Outgoing Legislative Council President Andrew Leung Kwanyuen looks back at his fouryear tenure that resembles a rollercoaster ride during an interview that included China Daily on Monday. Calvin Ng  China Daily Andrew Leung Kwanyuen, the outgoing president of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Regions Legislative Council, said his four years at the helm were like riding a roller coaster. Leung, who has been a lawmaker since  and the Legislative Councils president since , has yet to decide whether he will run for another term at the helm of the legislature. In a joint media interview on Monday, including with China Daily, Leung said although there was a honeymoon period with the government when Chief Executive Carrie Lam Cheng Yuetngor took office, relations between the legislature and the executive have since then often been very strained. Relations hit an alltime low last year when the Legislative Council complex was trashed by masked radicals and the House Committee, a key body of the legislature, was paralyzed for about seven months owing to opposition filibustering. There were sad moments, particularly when I saw the LegCo complex and its chamber were in a shambles after it was sabotaged by violent rioters on July , , he said. Owing to the damage to the Legislative Council building and its facilities, meetings were suspended for several months, followed by the stagnation of the House Committee because the election of its chairperson was held up by filibustering for about seven months. Leung stressed that the duty of legislators is to serve Hong Kong people. They can choose the way they present their views. Yet the opposition camp hold placards, shout, filibuster at meetings and get expelled from meetings. They do not form a good impression in the minds of citizens, and they let citizens down, Leung said. In December , legislators initiated massive amendments to the Legislative Councils Rules of Procedure to minimize the possibility of disruptive filibustering. Asked if further amendments are to be expected, Leung said that the Legislative Council will decide this during its next term. It must be noted that the judgment of the Court of Final Appeal says legislators have no right to filibuster, while the meeting time belongs to the entire legislature, and not to an individual legislator. The Court of First Instance also rules that the powers of the president of the Legislative Council in presiding at the meetings by virtue of Article  of the Basic Law of the HKSAR include the power to adjourn the meeting at the right time and put matters to vote, he said. For the  budget, Leung had set aside more than  hours for debate but the opposition camp filibustered as usual to delay important measures related to peoples livelihoods. They did not use the time properly, using various tricks to delay and abort the meeting and also complaining there was not enough time. This made me wonder whether they did not have sufficient time or had too much time.