Sri Lanka holds first wedding exhibition since COVID outbreak
2020/7/14 0:00
DUBAI, United Arab EmiratesFrom French soccer jerseys to slick online campaigns, Dubai is trumpeting the fact that it reopened for tourism on July but what that means for this sheikhdom that relies on the dollars, pounds, rupees and yuan spent by travelers remains in question. With travel uncertain and the coronavirus still striking nations Dubai relies on for tourists, this citystate wants to begin coaxing people back to its beaches and its cavernous shopping malls. By instilling the idea that Dubai is safe, authorities likely hope to fuel interest in the sheikhdom ahead of its crucial winter months for tourism. But all that depends on controlling a virus that the United Arab Emirates as a whole continues to fight. Armed with thermometers, mandatory facemasks and hand sanitizer, Dubai is wagering it is ready. I think that will give people confidencewhen theyre ready to travelto come to Dubai, says Paul Bridger, the corporate director for operations at Dubaibased Rove Hotels. It will take time to come back ...We are expecting to be one of the first markets to be back because of the confidence that we can give to people who are traveling. That Dubai is a tourist destination at all is largely thanks to its ruler, Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, who used the stateowned longhaul carrier Emirates to put this onetime pearling post on the map. Attractions like the Burj Khalifa, the worlds tallest building, and the sailshaped Burj AlArab luxury hotel draw transit passengers out of Dubai International Airport, the worlds busiest for international travel. In  alone, Dubai welcomed . million international guests, up from . million the year before, according to the Dubai Department of Tourism and Commerce Marketing. The top seven inboundtourism source nations were India, Saudi Arabia, the United Kingdom, Oman, China, Russia and the United States. The citys  hotels saw around  percent occupancy for the year, with visitors staying on average . days. Those travelers also fuel Dubais vast restaurant, bar and nightlife scenes. Though drinking is illegal in the neighboring emirate of Sharjah and the nations of Iran, Kuwait and Saudi Arabia, alcohol sales remain a crucial part of Dubais economy. But even before the pandemic, lower global energy prices, a  percent drop in the citys real estate market value and trade war fears have led employers to shed staff. The virus outbreak accelerated those losses, especially as Dubai has postponed its Expo , or worlds fair, to next year over the pandemic. That makes reopening for tourism that much more important, even though Dubais top three touristsource countries remain hardhit by the virus, says Rabia Yasmeen, a consultant at the marketresearch firm Euromonitor International. Even retail sales are affected by tourism, with some  percent of all revenue coming from tourists, she says. Its good for them to go ahead and announce because there needs to be a call for the confidence to come back, Yasmeen says. Someone has to take that step first to show the world. And Dubai has, in typical headlinebaiting fashion, taken those steps. French soccer club Olympique Lyonnais, under a sponsorship with Emirates, wore Dubai Is Open jerseys at a recent match. Dubai passport controllers have begun putting stickers on foreigners passports reading in English and Arabic A warm welcome to your second home. But theres a risk, particularly in allowing more travel as the virus stalks other countries. Emirates stopped flying to Pakistan over virus fears. Across the seven sheikhdoms that form the United Arab Emirates, there have been over , confirmed cases of COVID among the  million people living here, with more than , recoveries and  deaths as of Monday. At Rove Hotels, a new budget chain run by statelinked firms Emaar and Meraas, thermometercarrying staffers check the temperature of everyone coming inside. Cleaners fog disinfectants over rooms and wipe down tables and chairs. Even a camel statue and an oversized stuffed animal wore a mask. The chain, like others in Dubai, also has sought outside certification over its cleaning routines on top of fulfilling government regulations. Its kind of the icing on the cake to give people comfort that were following those standards, Bridger says. There are still risks. In order to travel, tourists must take a COVID test within  hours of their flights and show the airline a negative result. Otherwise, they will be tested on arrival and required to isolate while awaiting the results, which travelers say typically takes a few hours. Travelers must also have health insurance covering COVID or sign a declaration agreeing to cover the costs of treatment and isolation. A key question comes in Is the traveler ready to come to Dubai? Yasmeen says. Thats a big question mark. AP People swim at a swimming pool in the Atlantis The Palm hotel in Dubai, United Arab Emirates, on July . REUTERS ? ? Children play at a swimming pool in the Atlantis The Palm hotel. REUTERS ? ?