SAR rolls out drastic distancing measures amid local case spike
2020/7/14 0:00
As the US surpassed . million cases of the novel coronavirus on Sunday, Admiral Brett Giroir, who coordinates the governments testing efforts, called on residents in virus hot spots to wear masks in public or we will not get control of the virus. Due to widespread transmission as states prematurely loosened lockdown measures, the United States has seen a new surge of COVID cases. People have frequently been seen gathering in crowds, no longer heeding antivirus guidelines such as social distancing or wearing masks. Florida reported on Sunday the largest daily increase in positive coronavirus cases in any state since the pandemic began,. The US reported more than , cases of the virus on Friday alone, marking a new high for a hour period, according to a Johns Hopkins University tally, and more than , deaths have been caused by the virus as of early Monday. When asked on ABCs This Week if more stringent lockdowns might be needed in Southern states where cases are multiplying, Giroir said, Everything should be on the table. For this to work, we have to have like  percent of people wearing a mask in public in the hot spot areas, he said. If we dont have that, we will not get control of the virus. Giroir made his mask comment one day after President Donald Trump wore a mask in public for the first time when he visited veterans at Walter Reed National Military Medical Center in Bethesda, Maryland. Ive never been against masks, Trump said, but I do believe they have a time and a place. Trump has frequently said that he doesnt need to wear a mask because he and his staff are regularly tested for the virus. First lady Melania Trump also posted a video on Sunday of herself wearing a mask during a public appearance last week, the first time in several weeks that the public saw the first lady wearing a mask. Nancy Pelosi, speaker of the House of Representatives, said on Sunday that Trumps decision to wear a mask at Walter Reed hospital amounted to an admission that masks can curb the spread of the virus. The US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention urges everyone to wear a cloth face cover when they have to go out in public, noting that masks are critical in areas where social distancing is difficult to maintain since the coronavirus can spread between asymptomatic people and through respiratory droplets. But maskwearing and social distancing guidelines have created divisions amid a broader cultural battle over government authority. Texas Governor Greg Abbott told Texans on Friday to wear masks because face coverings were the only way businesses could stay open. Its disappointing that some local officials are refusing to enforce the states mask order, Abbott said. If we do not all join together and unite in this one cause for a short period of time,  it will lead to the necessity of having to close Texas back down. In addition to Florida and Texas, South Carolina, Georgia and Arizona have been particularly hard hit. In May, Florida became one of the first states to begin reopening its economy. A month ago, less than  percent of tests came up positive on a daily average. Last week, the daily average exceeded  percent. Schools in Florida are to open in many areas in four weeks. Governor Ron DeSantis has ordered them to offer fivedaysperweek, inclassroom education. On Sunday, Education Secretary Betsy DeVos downplayed the possibility of children spreading the virus by returning to classrooms. She said on CNNs State of the Union that there is nothing to suggest that children returning to the classroom would endanger others. Agencies contributed to this story. aihepingchinadailyusa.com ?