Where challenge is a game
2020/7/13 14:17
? Children wearing protective face masks are seen in a cart at a supermarket amid concerns of the spread of the coronavirus disease COVID, in Sanaa, Yemen on May , .  LONDON  Some . million children worldwide could be forced out of school forever by the end of this year, as a result of increasing poverty and budget cuts incurred by the COVID pandemic, Londonheadquartered charity Save the Children warned Monday. In  countries, mainly in West and Central Africa but also including Yemen and Afghanistan, children are at extremely high risk of not going back to school after the lockdowns are lifted, while in another  countries, they are at high or moderate risk, the charity said in a report published on its website. Lockdown measures during the pandemic saw a peak of . billion children out of school globally, according to the report. Calling this an unprecedented education emergency, Inger Ashing, CEO of Save the Children, said We know the poorest, most marginalized children who were already the furthest behind have suffered the greatest loss. In a midrange budget scenario, some of the poorest countries in the world will see a shortfall of  billion in education spending during the next  months, while in those countries where governments use education spending to tackle COVID, the figure could soar to  billion dollars by the end of , the report said. Ashing expressed worries that the impending budget crunch let existing inequality grow even wider between the rich and the poor, and between boys and girls. Girls are at increased risk of genderbased violence, child marriage and teen pregnancy during school shutdown, the report said. To address this education emergency, Save the Children, which has  national members worldwide, urges governments and donors to increase funding of education, with  billion dollars to be made available by the World Bank. The agency also in its report calls on commercial creditors to suspend debt repayments by lowincome countries, which could free up  billion dollars for investment in education.