Televised reality show break the mold
2020/7/13 13:03
Here are some of the most striking images taken from around the world over the past week. Visitors wearing face masks look at the painting Mona Lisa at the Louvre Museum on its reopening day in Paris on July , . After three and a half months of closure, the Louvre, one of the most visited museums in the world, reopened on Monday to the public, without the lengthy queues it saw before the COVID pandemic.  A photo taken on July ,  shows a container train from Chinas Wuhan entering a railway station in Kiev, Ukraine. The first direct container train, which left the central Chinese city of Wuhan on June , arrived in Kiev Monday, opening up new opportunities for ChinaUkraine cooperation, Ukrainian officials said.  New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio, his wife Chirlane Irene McCray and Reverend Al Sharpton paint Black Lives Matter along th avenue with others outside Trump Tower in the Manhattan borough of New York City on July , .  A woman smells the flowers at a botanical garden in Minsk, Belarus on July , .  People mourn Seoul Mayor Park Wonsoon at Seoul National University Hospital on July , . The yearold mayor was found dead in the woods of Mount Bugak near his residence around midnight Friday local time. No sign of foul play was found, but police are investigating the exact cause of his death.  Overheated, a healthcare worker takes a break as people wait in their vehicles in long lines for coronavirus testing in Houston, Texas, US on July , .  Paolo Gentiloni, European Commissioner for Economy, attends a press conference on the Summer  Economic Forecast at the European Commission headquarters in Brussels, Belgium on July , . The European economy will face a deeper recession than previously predicted due to the prolonged containment measures against COVID, the European Commission said in its Summer  Economic Forecast on Tuesday.  Children play at a park in front of the That Luang Stupa as coronavirusrelated restrictions are eased in Vientiane, Laos on July , .  Brazils President Jair Bolsonaro confirms his positive coronavirus diagnosis as he speaks to the media in Brasilia, Brazil on July , .  A photo taken on July ,  shows a physical silver collector coin matched with the banks digital collector coin LBCOIN to be issued on July , in Vilnius, Lithuania. An eshop lbcoin.lb.lt has been launched on Thursday in Lithuania by the countrys central bank, giving the green light to register to purchase the worlds first blockchainbased digital collector coin LBCOIN.? A bird lover trains parrots during a parrottraining show in Mubarak AlKabeer Governorate, Kuwait on July , .  Members of Surya Kirana dance group wear face shields to practice Javanese traditional dance amid the COVID outbreak at Desa Seni in Beautiful Indonesia Miniature Park TMII, Jakarta, Indonesia on July , . Members of the dance group held weekly practices following health protocols after the TMII reopened to the public. 