Hurricane Henri bears down on US east coast
2021/8/23 17:24
A healthcare worker administers the Johnson and Johnson coronavirus disease COVID vaccination to a woman in Houghton, Johannesburg, South Africa, Aug , .  The number of COVID infection cases in Africa surpassed . million on Sunday  a , increase from the previous day  according to data from the Africa Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, while vaccination rollout is progressing at an accelerated rate in the continent. Death cases on the other hand, reached ,, an increase of  compared with the Saturdays figure. So far, eight countries C Ethiopia, Kenya, Egypt, Libya, Morocco, Tunisia, South Africa and Zambia  have reported more than , COVID infection cases. South Africa is the most affected country with over . million infection cases, followed by Morocco, Tunisia, Ethiopia and Libya. As of Sunday, South Africa had recorded the highest number of fatalities, having recorded ,. COVID variants, specifically the highly transmissible Delta variant, have been attributed to the increasing number of infections and death cases across Africa. However, while the total cumulative caseloads are increasing, the number of new cases has significantly been decreasing over the past two weeks. According to the World Health Organization, in the week ending Aug , Africa recorded over ,  new cases, translating to an  percent drop from the previous week and a second straight week of declining cases. On Thursday, the UN agency expressed concerns over the increasing number of COVID cases in the West African region, whose several countries are also grappling with Ebola, Cholera and Marburg virus disease outbreaks. The UN agency said the outbreaks threaten to further strain the already stretched emergency response capacity in the region. Cote dIvoire, Guinea and Nigeria are not only among the nine West Africa countries that are experiencing COVID resurgence, but are also grappling with other outbreaks. In total,  countries across Africa are experiencing COVID resurgence. In the previous four weeks, the COVID fatalities in West Africa increased by  percent from  to , in the week ending Aug . Despite the surging infection cases, the rollout of vaccines across Africa is impressive, even though vaccination rate in the continent is still low compared with other parts of the world. So far, . percent of Africas population have received the first dose of COVID vaccine while . percent of the total population have been fully vaccinated, according to Africa CDC. Of the . million COVID doses supplied to Africa, . million doses have been administered so far. During the first  days of August, the COVAX facility delivered almost  million doses of COVID vaccines in Africa, nine times what was delivered in the same period in July, according to WHO data. The African Union, on the other hand, has delivered . million doses to nine countries. The WHO said since June, the number of doses administered per  people in subSaharan Africa has almost tripled from . per  people to . per  people. Africa is expecting to receive  million doses of COVID vaccines via COVAX by the end of the year. With a range of available financing opportunities, Africa hopes to continue with its vaccination campaign to realize its target of vaccinating large percentage of its population to achieve herd immunity. On June , the World Bank committed to provide over  billion to purchase and deploy vaccines to  developing countries, of which  are in Africa. Gavi, the vaccine alliance, on the other hand approved a further  million to deliver vaccines to lowincome countries. Despite the impressive vaccine rollout across the continent, both the WHO Regional Office for Africa and Africa CDC have been urging Africans to continue observing health protocols of wearing masks, keeping a safe distance and washing hands with soap and water to curb the spread of COVID.