Shanghai introduces AI investment consortium
2020/7/13 9:24
Efforts by nongovernmental organizations in China and the US have helped alleviate the effects of the pandemic in the two countries and strengthened global collaboration in the fight against the novel coronavirus, a report says. The report, ChinaUS Nongovernmental Cooperation in Response to COVID, said China and the US have complementary strengths and are at different stages of fighting the epidemic and donations and assistance from the two countries nongovernmental organizations, including private enterprises, academia, charitable organizations, chambers of commerce and individuals, are vital in curbing the virus. The report was issued last week by the Center for China and Globalization, a think tank in Beijing, with the support of the Chinese Peoples Association for Friendship with Foreign Countries and China Friendship Foundation for Peace and Development. Chinese and US companies have taken advantage of being able to allocate funds and materials as well as to use technology, especially the supply of medical and personal protective equipment, to support the battle against COVID in both countries, the report said. Alan Beebe, president of AmCham China, said US businesses in China are deeply bonded with the country. We are part of Chinese society, and weve been here for decades, and we want to be here for the next hundred years. Its our duty to step up and contribute in any way we can. The Chinese Academy of Social Sciences says that by Feb ,  US companies had donated funds and materials with a total value of  million yuan, accounting for . percent of the total donations from foreign companies and ranking first among foreignfunded companies. In return, China had exported more than  billion masks to the US during the pandemic, equivalent to providing nearly  masks for each US citizen, said Chinese State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi at a news conference on May . Overseas Chinese and students and US people have voluntarily undertaken fundraising activities and donated protective materials, the report said. Online survey The report also referred to an online survey of public attitudes to SinoUS collaboration. In , valid questionnaires collected from China and the US, respondents showed great support for the SinoUS civilian collaboration in fighting the pandemic, with more than  percent saying countries should help each other with the pandemic. About . percent of respondents said they supported SinoUS nongovernmental collaboration. However, there have also been difficulties and obstacles, such as a trend to deglobalization, ups and downs in SinoUS relations, and limited communications channels between the two countries, the report said. It suggested that nongovernmental organizations in both countries could work together to improve SinoUS relations by further strengthening economic and trade ties, broadening peopletopeople exchanges and improving mutual trust.