AI must play role in pandemic fight, experts say
2020/7/13 9:01
Mercedes Lewis Hamilton wears a protective face mask as he celebrates winning the race on the podium on July , .  BEIJING  Mercedes driver Lewis Hamilton cruised to his first win of the  Formula  season in the inaugural Styrian Grand Prix on Sunday, leading his teammate Valtteri Bottas home for a dominant  finish as the two Ferraris collided. The irregular nature of the  season saw Formula  holding consecutive Grands Prix at the same circuit for the first time, with the Red Bull Ring once again being pressed into service after hosting last weekends Austrian Grand Prix. Fresh from a supremely dominant performance in Saturdays wet qualifying session, Hamilton led away from pole and was never truly threatened, seemingly having plenty in hand to keep Red Bulls Max Verstappen at bay. Starting from fourth on the grid, Bottas opted for a different tyre strategy and took advantage of fresher rubber towards the end of the race to catch and pass Verstappen for second with four laps to go. The Dutchman did his best to keep Bottas at bay but ultimately had to give best to the Finn and settle for third place, acknowledging after the race that the Mercedes were too quick this weekend. Verstappens teammate Alex Albon spent most of the race in a lonely fourth place, seemingly unable to keep pace with the leading trio, and came under threat from a charging Sergio Perez late in the race. The Mexican had progressed well through the field after some good tyre management, but blotted his copybook by snagging his front wing against Albons rightrear tyre during an attempted overtake, and slowed with the resulting damage. Perezs ill wind blew Lando Norris good, as the McLaren driver made up three places in the last two laps to finish in a fine fifth place, after a good battle with Perezs Racing Point teammate Lance Stroll and Renaults Daniel Ricciardo, who took seventh and eighth respectively as Perez limped home in sixth. Norris teammate Carlos Sainz took ninth, along with the bonus point for fastest lap, and Daniil Kvyat rounded out the top ten in his AlphaTauri. But it was a dismal day for Ferrari, with both Sebastian Vettel and Charles Leclerc having to retire very early on after colliding at turn three on lap one. For his part, Leclerc was contrite afterwards, noting that his attempted overtake had been too ambitious. Renaults Esteban Ocon also failed to see the chequered flag, retiring on lap  with a cooling issue. Following his win in last weekends Austrian Grand Prix, Bottas leads the drivers championship with  point, followed by Hamilton on  and Norris on . In the constructors standings, Mercedes have assumed their customary lead with  points, followed by a resurgent McLaren on  and Red Bull with . The third round of the  Formula  season takes place next weekend with the Hungarian Grand Prix.?