US state of Florida sets new record for daily coronavirus cases
2020/7/13 3:53
Guests wearing masks walk to the entrance of Walt Disney Worlds Magic Kingdom in Orlando, Florida, on July , . The theme park reopened at limited capacity during the COVID pandemic.  WASHINGTON  The US state of Florida reported , new coronavirus cases Sunday, shattering not only its own previous singleday records, but also those of any other state as the pandemic continued to rage in the country. The mindboggling number brought the total infections to , in the Sunshine State, with the death toll reaching ,, according to the Florida Department of Health. The recent surge was the result of increased testing and widespread transmission as the state prematurely loosened lockdown measures, as a result of which people were seen gathering in crowds, no longer heeding antivirus guidelines such as maintaining social distance or wearing face coverings. Out of the ,, tests conducted as of Sunday, , returned positive. Meanwhile, the number of hospitalizations is also rising at an eyepopping rate, registering , in total on Sunday. As for the positivity rate, another key parameter, the number ranged from . percent to . percent during the past two weeks, indicating that the virus is far from being brought under control. Commenting on the positivity rate, Florida Governor Ron DeSantis, a Republican, said during a Saturday press briefing that it is something were looking at very seriously, adding that if the rate gets into the single digits, thats something thats a lot more manageable. In the meantime, however, the governor doubled down on his call for reopening schools, echoing a similar demand from President Donald Trump. People say, kids may be the vectors then, in the community ... but its been found over and over again, as people have looked at this and studied this, particularly in Europe, that the school children arent vectors for this, for whatever reason, DeSantis said. They usually get infected by the parents. Theyre usually not infecting adults. Former Florida Governor Charlie Crist, a Democrat, told CNN in an interview Saturday that schools should give parents the option of continuing online education for their kids if they so desire, and that when to reopen schools should primarily be the parents decision. Despite the surge, the Walt Disney World Resort in Orlando opened its Magic Kingdom and Animal Kingdom sites Saturday, asking visitors to wear masks and adhere to other safety measures. Epcot and Disneys Hollywood Studios, also part of the amusement park complex, will reopen on July .