Global investors scaling back presence in Russia
2020/7/13 0:00
Global investors are withdrawing from Russian markets due to the negative impacts of the novel coronavirus pandemic, and the country continues to face a high degree of domestic consumer pessimism, experts said. Russia is gradually lifting its coronavirus restrictions. In Moscow, wearing masks on the streets will no longer be required as of Monday. Although lives are returning to normal, economically and socially, international investors are scaling back their presence in the Russian markets, experts said. In the week that ended on July , million had been pulled out of equity funds alone, and the same trend was noted in the bond market, which lost  million. Kommersant, a Russian daily business newspaper, said the recovery of the Russian market in the spring allowed investors to make a significant profit, but the general lack of stability worldwide due to the COVID pandemic has quelled investors appetite for risk. The situation is undermined by the possibility of new sanctions by the United States against Russia, Kommersant said. Data provided by Emerging Portfolio Fund Research showed a noticeable drop in interest in the Russian market by international investors. In the week ending on July , the  million that investors withdrew from equity funds, including global funds, that were invested in Russian shares was . times higher than the week before, according to Bank of America and BCS Global Markets, which rely on EPFRs data. In that same week, over  million was pulled out of the Russian bond market, compared with an influx of  million the previous week, said AlfaCapital portfolio manager Dmitry Dorofeev. Dorofeev said many investors fear a second wave of the pandemic and a possible return of anticoronavirus lockdown measures. Region Asset Managements head of assets Alexei Skaballanovich said a second wave of the virus was expected to hit developing countries where medicine is not that advanced and where a negative effect may be stronger. At the same time, market players note that Russia is in a special position, with the virus seemingly under control and enterprises allowed to resume operations, Skaballanovich said. However, Skaballanovich noted that new sanctions against Russia are under discussion by the US. Dmitry Kosmodemyansky of Otkritie Asset Management also was concerned about possible sanctions. Despite doubts that new sanctions would become a reality, concern over sanctions has nonetheless affected the profitability of Russias state bonds. Meanwhile, in domestic markets, Russia may not have a positive turnout in the second half of . The pandemic seems to be waning in the nation, but consumer pessimism remains high, a poll conducted by the Russian Presidential Academy of National Economy and Public Administration found. Russians who were surveyed said they were expecting the situation in the country to deteriorate in the near future, but they also were skeptical about their financial situation and prospects, so it was feared that the rise in consumer pessimism could cause a severe consumer crisis. Russian daily newspaper Nezavisimaya Gazeta said the RANEPA experts based their estimations on a fifth round of monitoring of the social situation and behavior of more than , people during the coronavirus pandemic. More than  percent of those surveyed thought the pandemic would significantly affect the countrys economy, while  percent thought the effect would be moderate. According to the poll, Russians were more worried about their financial prospects. Seventythree percent feared that their monetary circumstances would worsen significantly or moderately, while  percent thought they would not deteriorate significantly, and  percent saw no threat to their finances at all. The crisis, the coronavirus pandemic and the quarantine restrictions have had a negative effect on the populations outlook, and on their view of the current situation in Russia and around the world, and of their current situation, according to economists from the Center for Macroeconomic Analysis and ShortTerm Forecasting. Irina Komarova, deputy head of the economic theory department at Plekhanov Russian University of Economics, said the lifting of quarantine restrictions would help improve the situation, but positive changes would take a while. The reason is the publics exacerbated financial situation, Komarova said. This year, Russians have faced two shocksthe devaluation of the ruble and the quarantine that led to a rise in unemployment, said Alexander Razuvayev, head of the Alpari analytical center. We have not overcome those shocks, which affects consumer behavior. People spend less, thinking that tough times are ahead. renqichinadaily.com.cn ? Visitors rest at the Pushkin State Museum of Fine Arts in Moscow on Friday, when the museum reopened to the public after coronavirus restrictions. Though Russia is gradually lifting restrictions, global investors are withdrawing from its markets due to negative impacts of the pandemic. ALEXANDER ZEMLIANICHENKO JRXINHUA ? ? ? ?