Speech by H.E. Ambassador Liu Xiaoming at the Breakfast Meeting of the Walbrook Club Relations Built on Solid Mutual Trust Has A Bright Future
2020/7/11 9:50
The first multispan rigid frame continuous beam for the No  Bridge of Indonesias JakartaBandung High Speed Railway was successfully closed in May.Photo provided to China Daily The development of the Chinabuilt JakartaBandung highspeed railway HSR project is continuing to advance amid the COVID pandemic in Indonesia following changes in safety and health procedures at the construction sites. At all the HSRs project sites, everybody, particularly workers, must go through temperature checks regularly before entering the site. Polymerase chain reaction PCR tests are also being conducted onsite for the virus. Hilal Riselianto, a construction safety officer at the Tunnel No  located in Padalarang, a subdistrict in the West Bandung district, has not returned to his home in West Javas city of Sukabumi since the COVID outbreak in Indonesia in early March. At least  workers on the Tunnel No  project have been staying in dormitories after work to protect themselves from being infected by the virus. Workers who are not feeling well will immediately be taken for a health check, Riselianto told Xinhua in Padalarang. As for newly recruited workers, they are required to go through rapid tests and to selfquarantine for  days before starting to work, he added. Riselianto, who conducts a toolbox talk, an informal meeting focusing on safety topics every morning, never forgets to remind all workers of social distancing measures. Workers must keep a distance of at least one meter apart, he said, adding that they must also wash their hands with sanitizers before and after their shift. He added that every day each worker on the Tunnel No  project is provided with two masks and other materials to ensure their health and safety at work. The Tunnel No  project is a single ,meter long tunnel with double lanes undertaken by the China Railway Engineering Corporation CREC. Riselianto said construction has been making good progress despite the tighter health and safety protocols. The construction process is going smoothly despite COVID. The work schedule has not been disrupted, while workers are being kept healthy, he said. Latest data released by the Indonesian government showed the total cases of confirmed COVID in the worlds fourth most populous country increased to more than , on Thursday. The coronavirus has claimed some , lives across the country. Under the new health and safety measures implemented at the JakartaBandung HSR project, the HighSpeed Railway Contractor Consortium has completed several projects, including the meter Tunnel No  in March.Photo provided to China Daily Specifically, the number of COVID cases in West Java reached , with the death toll increasing to  on Thursday. Meanwhile, the number of cases in the capital city of Jakarta reached , with the death toll reaching  on Thursday. West Java recently announced that the province decided not to extend its largescale social restrictions PSBB, also known as a partial lockdown policy, after seeing the virus basic reproduction rate R remain under  over the past six weeks. The provinces governor Ridwan Kamil said authorities have been focusing more on conducting tests in areas prone to COVID outbreaks. Meanwhile, the Jakarta administration is still implementing transitional PSBB that serves as an early chapter of Jakartas new normal, in which the provinces governor Anies Baswedan said would only be applied to strategic sectors with manageable risks. Under the new health and safety measures implemented at the JakartaBandung HSR project, the HighSpeed Railway Contractor Consortium HSRCC has completed several projects during the first half of . They include the meterlong Tunnel No  bored through on April , as well as the meter Tunnel No  with its drilling completed on March . The construction projects have been advanced in a safe and orderly manner, reflecting the high standards and good image of the JakartaBandung High Speed Railway construction, HSRCCs project director Xiao Songxin told Xinhua. The JakartaBandung HSR has a total length of . km, comprising  tunnels, and trains will run at a designed speed of  km per hour. It is the first of its kind in Indonesia as well as in Southeast Asia. The traveling time from Jakarta to Bandung will be reduced from more than three hours to just half an hour, which will great help spur economic activities along the line between the two cities.