Shanghai airport publishes antiviral standards
2020/7/10 16:49
Passengers can access free liquid disinfection soap at every corner of the airports two terminals. Photo by Wang Yingchinadaily.com.cn Shanghai Hongqiao International Airport has become the nations first to publish its own standards on epidemic prevention and management to ensure the safety of its passengers. The measures to contain and prevent the spread of the novel coronavirus have helped boost domestic flights and passenger transportation volume at Shanghais Hongqiao International Airport. The number of daily flights via Hongqiao airport rose to about  by the end of June, about  percent of preepidemic levels. Meanwhile, passenger volume recovered to , per day, almost  percent of last years volume. Expecting a stable resumption of passenger flow, Hongqiao Airport announced its management standards for the normalization of epidemic prevention with regard to routine screening of the COVID cases, epidemic prevention and resources provision, disinfection of public space and waste disposal, disinfection of air conditioning, staff protection and health management. When passengers enter the airport, they will find a disinfection mat for their shoes. Public areas and seats have been sprayed with an antibacterial coating, and will be disinfected every six hours. Free liquid disinfection soap is also available at every corner of the airports two terminals, and a robot named Hongbao is moving around to disinfect up to , square meters of public space every day, said Xie Fang, deputy general manager in charge of operations at the Shanghai Airport Authority. Every trolley is disinfected each time before usage. Staff working at security checkpoints have also been instructed to disinfect their hands every  minutes. The airport has also made disposable face masks, disinfection mist and disinfection wipes available for purchase. A disinfection mat is placed at each of the airport entrance gates to help disinfect passengers shoes.?Photo by Wang Yingchinadaily.com.cn A robot named Hongbao moves around to disinfect up to , sqm of public space every day.?Photo by Wang Yingchinadaily.com.cn The airport has set aside an area for trolleys disinfection before usage.?Photo by Wang Yingchinadaily.com.cn