CMEC offers helping hand to ease housing crunch in Maldives
2020/7/10 9:55
A screenshot from?China Machinery Engineering Co Ltd. .com The Maldives, a popular tourist destination, is facing a severe housing shortage due to its limited space and growing population. Helping solve the problem is China Machinery Engineering Co Ltd, or CMEC, a Beijingbased Stateowned enterprise specializing in engineering contracting business, after the SOE completed construction on a thirdphase housing project involving , apartments on Hulhumale Island in late June. Hulhumale is the second largest island in the Maldives. It takes more than  minutes to reach by boat from the Maldives capital, Male. Hulhumale, with an area of  square kilometers, was reclaimed from the sea in . As a satellite island, Hulhumale has directly relieved the longterm overpopulation pressure of Malethe most densely packed capital in the world. Hulhumale has about , people on its . sq km of land, accounting for onethird of the Maldives population. Because the Maldives declared a state of emergency to minimize the impact caused by the COVID pandemic, the housing project had been temporarily suspended and all workers had to take training to prevent infections earlier this year, said Qian Haojun, deputy general manager of CMECs second complete plants division. Qian said the company resumed operations in early May after formulating emergency response plans and undergoing weeks of preparations. To prevent infections, all employees must wear surgical masks while working on its construction sites. CMEC to date has completed construction of the housing project in three phases, with a total of , units and a construction area of more than , square meters, said Qian, adding that it is one of the key livelihood projects of the Maldives government. The first and second phases of the housing projects built by CMEC were successfully delivered to its ownerthe Maldives governmentin  and , respectively. After all the thirdphase projects are completed, they will solve the housing headaches of more than , locals, or  percent of the Maldives residents, and will directly improve the crowded housing conditions in the country, particularly in the capital. Qian said the companys housing construction work has brought business opportunities to more than  local construction contractors, material and daily necessities suppliers, as well as job opportunities for nearly , locals. Because of the hot and humid climate, insufficient vegetable and fruit supplies, expensive living costs and homesickness, Qian described the Maldives as a paradise for tourists but a difficult place for his companys construction workers who nearly all come from China. However, it comforted him and compatriot colleagues when they saw locals move into the new homes CMEC had built for them. In addition to creating new jobs for locals, these housing projects will also generate fresh momentum for hundreds of local shops as well as small and mediumsized enterprises to create a new integrated economic model for local infrastructure, commercial services and tourism, said Wei Xiaoquan, a researcher specializing in regional economic development at the University of International Business and Economics in Beijing. Chinese companies, with their mature experiences and expertise in building bigticket infrastructure projects, have become tangible growth drivers of the Belt and Road Initiative, Wei said. Thanks to a string of measures taken to minimize the coronavirus impact, cooperation projects related to the BRI are generally running smoothly with no major delays in the first five months of , said the Ministry of Commerce. With more than three decades of experience in the engineering industry, CMECalso a subsidiary of China National Machinery Industry Corp, a centrally administrated SOEhas developed the capacity to provide onestop, customized, complete plant solutions spanning preliminary planning, EPC engineering, procurement, construction, financing, operation and maintenance. It has expanded its business presence to  countries and regions in Asia, Africa, Europe and South America, forming a project contracting network with electric power at its core and also covering transportation, telecommunications, waterworks, building materials and cement businesses.