Shenyang expands rail cargo links with Russia
2020/7/10 9:52
A container is loaded onto a ChinaEurope freight train at the Shenyang railway logistics center owned by Liaoning Port Group, a subsidiary of China Merchants Group, in Shenyang, Liaoning province, in July. Photo by?Ning YongFor China Daily With ChinaEurope freight train service witnessing steady growth in the first half of the year, the first freight train heading for the planned largest rail cargo terminal in Russia left Shenyang, capital of Liaoning province, earlier this month to further boost trade volume between Chinas northeastern region and Europe. The train is expected to arrive in Moscow within  to  days. It marks the first time the Berelast Logistics Center, which is located about  kilometers from Moscows Red Square, participates with China on twoway rail cargo operations between the two continents. The building of the overseas service terminal for ChinaEurope freight train services is significant and ensures a smooth flow along the railway logistics corridor between China and Russia, said Zhang Yi, general manager of Dalianbased Liaoning Port Group, a subsidiary of China Merchants Group, a centrally administrated Stateowned enterprise. The train was loaded with  containers transporting auto parts, chemicals and mechanical equipment along with surgical masks donated by the Department of Commerce of Liaoning province and a number of institutions of Shenyang. Zhang said the rail terminal of the Berelast Logistics Center, which was jointly built by Liaoning Port Group and Russian Railways beginning in , is the first major logistics infrastructure cooperation project between the two countries. The two sides plan to build it into the largest railway cargo terminal in Russia with a total investment of  billion yuan  million and an annual turnover capacity of , TEUs foot equivalent units. The first phase of the terminal was completed in the first half of this year. It launched its first freight train heading for China on June . Shilo Alexey Nikolaevich, deputy general director of Russian Railways, said it is proof of the efficient cooperation between China and Russia in line with the needs of the Belt and Road Initiative and the Eurasian Economic Union. Together with China Merchants Group and Liaoning Port Group, we will continue to fully support the infrastructure construction of the Berelast Logistics Center, accelerate the improvement of service functions and promote the growth of cargo volume, Nikolaevich said. As for construction of the Berelast Logistics Center, Song Yanlin, directorgeneral of the Liaoning commercial department, said the province will speed up construction of a green Customs clearance pilot project between China and Russia as well as the building of overseas warehouses and hub ports between Liaoning and Belyy Rast to promote trade between Northeast China and Russia. Liaoning Port Group signed strategic cooperation agreements with Liaoning branches of China Export and Credit Insurance Corp, China Development Bank and ExportImport Bank of China. The three financial institutions will support the group to implement its going global strategy, participate in BRI construction and foreign economic cooperation at a higher level and in a wider range, and actively promote the construction of an international shipping center and a major logistics center in Northeast Asia. This year, while effectively coping with the impact of the coronavirus pandemic, Liaoning Port Group launched new ChinaEurope freight train services on several routes, offering better services to its customers both at home and abroad. The ChinaEurope rail transport service was initiated in  and is considered a significant part of the BRI to stimulate trade between China and countries participating in the initiative. Amid the coronavirus pandemic, the service has remained a reliable transportation channel. The National Development and Reform Commission has allocated  million yuan from the central budget to support the construction of transportation hubs in five cities to improve ChinaEurope rail freight services, said Chinas top economic regulator earlier this week. The funds will be used to support the construction of demonstration projects in Zhengzhou, Chongqing, Chengdu, Xian and Urumqi to improve the efficiency of the transportation network of rail cargo services. The commission said it will step up coordination to guide local governments in the construction of transportation centers and offer strong support for the joint building of the BRI.