ChinaEurope freight train sends antiepidemic supplies to Poland
2020/7/10 7:57
The packaging of consumer products is meant to cause a psychological impact and influence purchase decisions. The texture of a box, the shape of a container, the colors on the label, the smell  all of these contribute to a products appeal in the mind of a potential buyer. Cracking the puzzle as to what drives a person to reach for his purse is perhaps the marketers Holy Grail. Data analysis shows packaging influences at least a third of a shoppers decisionmaking process. On average, it takes a potential buyer seven seconds to decide whether to get swayed by or remain indifferent to the packaging design of a product. However, in the time of a pandemic, designers do not have seven seconds at their disposal to convince a potential customer. Take the early days of the novel coronavirus outbreak in Hong Kong, when panic buying saw supermarket shelves wiped out of cleaning products overnight. When the focus is on grabbing the product before the stores run out of supply, the time taken for decisionmaking is cut down to a mere second or two. Packaging is a brands first touchpoint with the consumer. Even with the rise of ecommerce in the wake of COVID, the feelings stimulated by a products visual still come first, says Bryan Ng, senior program director, HKU Space Executive Academy Global. Rachel Hunt, design and product development consultant with Hong Kongbased global supply chain management company Li  Fung, sees potential opportunities in the coronavirus disaster that halted economy and hit production in most countries around the world in the last few months. Upandcoming brands can finally come into the spotlight, now that the big players are swept off the shelves, says Hunt. When they are stockpiling, consumers naturally pick up their known, trusted, familiar brands with distinctively recognizable packaging for comfort and control in unprecedented times. However, a high level of initial panic buying has created an opportunity for lesserknown brands to thrive and become trusted, particularly for newly indemand products such as hand sanitizer and medicated soap, she adds. While the sudden and overwhelming demand for hygiene and food products has subsided, design strategists around the world have been trying to work out ways of staying ahead of the game, should such a crisis resurface in our lives again. Hong Kong  a packaging design mecca in the s and home to some of the worlds finest design schools  is no exception. Keeping it simple The effect packaging design has on purchasing decisions vary, depending on the shoppers involvement level, time spent on studying the product, peer pressure as well as their culture, emotions, social class etc. However, research shows, at the end of the day, simplicity and clarity are key to enhancing the appeal of food labels as nobody is looking for poetry on a can of peas. According to associate fellow of the Hong Kong Psychological Society, Kelvin Chua, even before COVID struck,  percent consumers thought food and beverage packaging was overloaded with information. The literature on labels came across as complicated and untrustworthy to most buyers. Theres a movement to simplify label information, which is known to facilitate greater customer engagement, he says. Food safety is the baseline for consumers nowadays, and people want to know whether the product they are interested in is farmfed, sugarreduced and so on. So rather than giving scores of data that do not make much sense to people, just sticking no artificial flavoring on the label works already. This thirst for healthrelated information will carry on even after COVID, especially among the citys healthconscious young people and the growing number of cases with high cholesterol and diabetes. Hunt agrees, adding that shoppers today have no patience for confusing labels. Brands with a fresh and simple design with clear labeling of what it is facilitates a quick pickup. She also notes that consumers these days are reluctant to pick up something from the store shelf unless they are buying it, for fear of contamination. Hence simply stating a products uses in a few words might be the way to go. Is bright alright? The lessismore approach falls in line with presenting a clinical and hygienic image. Hunt says she has noticed a preference for natureinspired bright colors, detailing and fonts that evoke a sense of happiness, positivity, wellbeing and mental strength. Depending on the product, white with a muted pastel may work for a calming, comforting influence, says Hunt, adding pops of color against a white background can make a pharmacyinspired aesthetic less forbidding. This method can also help elevate practical items such as hand sanitizers to be counted among aspirational wellness products. Hande, an organic ethanolbased sanitizer brand, was launched in the UK within two weeks of coronavirus outbreak in the country. The company donates  percent of its products and a portion of its profits goes to organizations in need. The transparent glass bottles are wrapped in labels with creamy white and stone blue colors. A serif font conveys vibes of calm and cleanliness. Hong Kongs own Bathe to Basics, a hand sanitizer spray, hand soap, body oil and other bathroom toiletries brand since , has opted for transparent packaging to let the products natural color show while continuing the original line of black, white or silver monotone bottles. On the labels, product category, flavor and ingredients are listed in a spacedout, sansserif font. Ng notes a rise in demand especially for the color orange, for its symbolic vibrancy. Such an example is Hong Kongbased mask manufacturer MasHKer, whose peachcolored logo, resembling a smiling face, exudes a sense of happiness and hope. Brands can convey the idea of energy and life by using the color orange, he says, citing fast food chain Fairwood, cosmetics brand Mannings and a number of energy drinks who have opted for the color as their brand signature. However, the impact of color on consumer psyche diminishes at a time when people are buying only stuff they really need and staying in good health is their primary concern, Ng points out. So greens, whites or even wood colors will prevail in the future. At a time when retail markets around the world are close to bleeding out from the impact of COVID, brand designers and manufacturers need to enlist every bit of help they can get to promote their products. And while inyourface PR campaigns may be shunned during bleak times, a small tweaking of color, composition, and wording can make a difference by subtly pushing the consumer to reach for a product. ?