More switching off from COVID news in US
2020/7/9 14:37
? US President Donald Trump speaks during an event on reopening schools amid the coronavirus disease COVID pandemic in the East Room at the White House in Washington, US, July , .  WASHINGTON  The United States on Tuesday officially submitted its notification of withdrawal from the World Health Organization WHO to the United Nations secretarygeneral, which has been widely criticized by public health experts. As global COVID infections top  million, with a vaccine still not in sight, Washingtons decision was disastrous for national interests and the departure would weaken American influence on international health diplomacy, Lawrence O. Gostin, the director of the ONeill Institute for National and Global Health Law at Georgetown University, said in a statement. It will make Americans less safe during an unprecedented global health crisis, Gostin added. Dr. Ashish Jha, director of the Harvard Global Health Institute, considered it as an extraordinarily bad decision that will both harm global public health and harm the health of the American people. Its unclear to me how the American people benefit by not being at the table and not being able to shape those policies, the expert was quoted as saying by the New York Times. Washingtons blame on the WHO for not investigating the COVID outbreak in China is deeply disingenuous, Jha said. WHO cant push its way into China, any more than it can investigate why our outbreak is so bad in Arizona or why were botching the response as badly as we are. He also called on the White House to adhere to science, encourage people to wear masks and conduct social distancing as the country has reported more than  million COVID cases with over , deaths, which are far higher than those in any other country or region, according to the latest Johns Hopkins University tally. Theres been a lot of mixed messaging on masks and social distancing and so all of that has contributed to what I think is a perilous moment for our country, Jha said. Amanda Glassman, a public health expert and executive vice president of the Center for Global Development think tank, noted that the world doesnt just face todays threat of COVID but also the threat of future pandemics, which are more likely because of increased zoonotic transmission. Withdrawal is counterintuitive at best and dangerous to human life at worst, Glassman told USA Today. The US Congress should immediately explore what power it has to prevent this from happening. She noted that the probability of a high lethality strain of influenza in the next decade or so is also significant, adding that corrective measures at the WHO are needed and member states staying engaged is necessary. Gayle Smith, president and CEO of The ONE Campaign, an advocacy group focused on improving global health and eliminating poverty, suggested that the United States should use its influence to strengthen the WHO, not abandon it at a time when the world needs it most. US President Donald Trump and his administration repeatedly assailed the WHO for months and threatened to cut ties with the organization. Trump also announced in midApril that his administration would halt US funding to the WHO. The United States will leave the WHO on July , , and currently owes the organization more than  million?in assessed contributions, according to the WHO website.