US university leaders slam Trump policy on foreign students
2020/7/9 10:30
An employee loads packages for crossborder shipments onto a truck at a warehouse in Hekou, Yunnan province, on March .  News Service DHgate leverages diversified tools and strategies for growth amid headwinds Crossborder ecommerce is expected to play a bigger role in revitalizing foreign trade and accelerating the digitalization push of traditional small and mediumsized enterprises as the country steps up efforts to mitigate the COVID outbreaks effect on trade activities, industry insiders said. DHgate.com, a Chinese crossborder businesstobusiness ecommerce platform, said its gross merchandise value GMV increased by  to  percent in both April and May, compared with the same period last year, as the contagion is increasingly coming under control. The GMV from North America and Europe recorded robust growth. It is noteworthy that sales revenue in Latin America surged by  percent in April compared with March, the company said. Our business was affected by the COVID outbreak. During the pandemic, the international demand fluctuated and we experienced the ups and downs, but we have also seen the opportunities, said Diane Wang, founder and CEO of DHgate.com. Wang said that in January and February, factory production and logistics services were halted. As the virus ravaged globally, the international logistics time doubled since April, and the average delivery time in May was about  days. In April, the sales of sportswear, apparel and bags fell by  percent and  percent, respectively, compared with the day period before the Chinese Lunar New Year. However, masks and other emergency supplies showed explosive growth. Related sales in early April increased by  times compared with the same period in March, Wang noted. In addition, bath products rose by  times in April compared with the onemonth period before the Spring Festival. Products such as household tools, laptops, sports and fitness, and leisure games recorded over two times growth in sales. The th edition of the biannual China Import and Export Fair, better known as the Canton Fair, was held online from June  to  in Guangzhou, Guangdong province and brought precious opportunities for micro, small and mediumsized businesses to showcase their products. DHgate.com has also rolled out a series of livestreaming programs and recommendation activities targeting buyers from countries and regions involved in the Belt and Road Initiative. Products in the categories including healthcare and beauty, mobile phones and accessories, household and garden were favored by consumers during the virtual Canton Fair. Meanwhile, buyers from the United States, the United Kingdom and France contributed to the largest number of orders, Wang said. Founded in , DHgate.com has become one of the leading crossborder ecommerce marketplaces in China. In , it served more than  million registered buyers from over  countries and regions, connecting them to over . million suppliers in China and other countries, with over  million products. Chinas crossborder ecommerce sector has grown exponentially as the countrys middle and highincome shoppers demand increasingly diversified and personalized products and services. Market consultancy iiMedia Research said the size of the countrys crossborder online shopping has been expected to rise to . trillion yuan . trillion in . On April , China announced plans to establish new pilot zones for crossborder ecommerce. In addition to the  crossborder ecommerce pilot zones already set up, the country will establish  new ones and exempt retail export goods in all pilot zones from valueadded tax and consumption tax. Shen Yuliang, a researcher with the Institute of World Economics under the Shanghai Academy of Social Sciences, said the pandemic has had an impact on Chinas crossborder ecommerce, causing delayed logistics services in the short term. Chinese companies engaged in crossborder ecommerce sector should actively build a global supply chain and maintain flexible supply of goods, said Shen, adding more efforts are needed to support various foreign trade enterprises to cooperate with international ecommerce platforms. Zhang Li, director of the ecommerce research institute affiliated to the Ministry of Commerce, said crossborder ecommerce has become an important channel for Chinas foreign trade. The sector is playing a vital role in stabilizing and accelerating the innovative development of foreign trade.