Latest on the novel coronavirus outbreak
2020/7/9 10:00
Bubble tea is one of the most popular beverages in Dongguan, Guangdong province.?AN DONGFOR CHINA DAILY GUANGZHOUDespite the rain, customers formed a long line to buy bubble tea at Bliss Cake in Dongguan, a manufacturing hub in Guangdong province, on a recent afternoon. Having disappeared during the COVID outbreak, bubble tea lovers have started returning to the cafe in large numbers. The  tables were all occupied, and customers lined up to collect their purchases in the cafes takeout area. Our sales were depressed by COVID for two months. But now we see customers coming back as people gradually return to work and begin revenge buying to cure their cabin fever, said Wen Shiming, Bliss Cakes marketing manager. Surrounded by factories and office buildings, the bubble tea cafe is a gathering spot for young workers in the area. The increase in the cafes business offers a glimpse into the strength of the return to work after the novel coronavirus outbreak was largely brought under control. Dongguan has a sprawling manufacturing industry and is a major supplier of smartphones, toys, and highend footwear that is exported. In recent years, the city has witnessed a rise in hightech industries and bubble tea became a popular beverage with the younger workforce. Data shows there are three bubble tea stores for every , Dongguan residents, compared with one coffee business for every , people in Berkeley, California, which one study ranked as the United States city with the most coffee shops per capita. Jian Weizhe, manager of My Caffe Life, another bubble tea cafe, was worried COVID would deal a fatal blow to the business. As one of the largest bubble tea chains in Dongguan, My Caffe Life saw its sales plummet  percent yearonyear in March. Much to Jians relief, the chains business rebounded in April and was better in May than in the same month the previous year. The familiar long queues were coming back. The bump in bubble tea sales reflects a general economic recovery in Guangdong, Chinas manufacturing heartland. Official data showed economic activities in the province rebounded in April to the same level as last year, as businesses reopened and production picked up speed. In Dongguan, retail tax invoicing increased by . percent yearonyear in May, indicating a smooth recovery in the retail sector. Huang Yaode, operating director of bubble tea chain Teabucks Lab, said the revival of business was a vote of confidence from the public on how well COVID has been contained. Consumers will only come out and take off their masks for a cup of tea if the epidemic has been contained. The crowded bubble tea cafes are proof that everything is getting back on track, Huang said. Xu Bo, secretarygeneral of Dongguans chain restaurant development and promotion association, said bubble tea was a good way for people to socialize and part of everyday life for many Chinese. Behind the rising sales of bubble tea cafes is the rapid recovery of society and the economy, he said. Xinhua