White House pushes to reopen schools as US COVID cases top  mln
2020/7/9 9:30
? Boston Red Sox starting pitcher Eduardo Rodriguez  throws a pitch during the first inning against the New York Yankees at JetBlue Park in?Fort Myers, Florida, US, on Feb , .  As baseball nears the twoweek countdown to the start of its delayed season, the COVID pandemic continues to keep more players, including Boston Red Sox projected openingday starter Eduardo Rodriguez, off the field. On Tuesday, one day after Major League Baseball released its game schedule, there was continued evidence of the difficulties caused by the pandemic. The San Francisco Giants suspended workouts at Oracle Park as they awaited the results of weekend tests for the coronavirus. The Chicago Cubs workout was delayed. Oakland lefthander Jake Diekman, who has ulcerative colitis, an autoimmune condition, said teams having to call off workouts because of delays in test results just cant happen. I know theyre trying their hardest, but I dont know if thats good enough for right now, Diekman said. Its a little worrisome. Say we go on a day road trip and we only get results one time. Thats not very good with  or  people in a clubhouse at one time. Giants manager Gabe Kapler said one missed day wouldnt put his club behind. He said he expects the testing process to improve. I feel as confident today as I did yesterday, Kapler said. I understand that there are going to be hiccups along the way. ... I think more than anything I just maintain a level of empathy for everybody thats working really hard to get our camp up and running, but also across the league and for all the clubs that are working really hard to put their players in a position to have success. Nobody expected this to be easy. The Giants previously had prospect Hunter Bishop and pitcher Luis Madero test positive. Rodriguez and Red Sox prospect Bobby Dalbec tested positive for the virus. Rodriguez did not report to camp after informing the team that he had been around relatives who were ill. Dalbec also is home and is asymptomatic. Manager Ron Roenicke said it is just unfortunate the positive test could jeopardize Rodriguezs chances to start on opening day. The Kansas City Royals announced righthander Brad Keller and first baseman Ryan OHearn had positive tests. Keller, , said he has minor symptoms that remind me more of an allergy attack. The threat of an infection was enough for the Cleveland Indians to keep outfielder Franmil Reyes away from camp. Reyes was told to stay home after he was seen on social media attending a party without wearing a mask. Manager Terry Francona said Reyes would be retested when its appropriate. Francona said Reyes could have exposed himself and his teammates to the virus by not practicing social distancing or wearing a mask. He said Reyes has apologized. The Chicago Cubs Tuesday workout was delayed a few hours as the team awaited test results. On Monday, Cubs slugger Kris Bryant criticized the lack of frequency of the tests and delays in getting results. Manager David Ross said We cant just crush MLB because this is new to them too and the testing facility. The two teams from last years World Series, the champion Washington Nationals and the Houston Astros, resumed workouts after canceling practices on Monday because of testing delays. Washington general manager Mike Rizzo said two unidentified players tested positive for the coronavirus. Any players and staff who came into contact with the two players had to be retested. Braves manager Brian Snitker, on Tuesday embraced our first normalfeel day since weve been back. Four Atlanta players, including first baseman Freddie Freeman, have tested positive. Two veterans, Nick Markakis and Felix Hernandez, have decided to sit out the season citing infection fears. Associated Press