The beat still goes on in Africa despite outbreak
2020/7/9 0:00
Editors note This news column showcases stories from around the world that bring a touch of positivity to the fight against the deadly coronavirus. Musicians in Africa have had to become more inventive in countering the disruptions caused by the coronavirus, with the closure of most music and entertainment venues across the continent. Mbogi Genje, a Kenyan band featuring Antony Odhiambo, also known as Smady, Malaka Yuen, aka Militan, and Teddy Ochieng, who goes by the name Guzman, had just started taking over the airwaves before the pandemic struck. Last year was a good year for us and things were looking up for us because we were in high demand to perform for live shows and at events, Smady said. But with the coronavirus, we have had to cancel many shows that we depended on to make a living. For example, a concert called The NaiFest would have been a good platform for us to expand our fan base and meet other artists including international ones, but it was canceled and we were supposed to perform there. Guzman said This pandemic might be here for a while longer and as artists, we cannot depend on government aid, which might not arrive in the long run. That is why we have to develop our own means of surviving during the pandemic. That approach has seen the group get on with recording more songs and sharing them with their fans on online platforms and other channels. Smady said that, even though they havent been able to hold concerts amid the pandemic restrictions, they have kept busy. We have managed to continue recording and shooting videos for our music, but we ensure that we maintain social distancing, wear masks and sanitize ourselves as frequently as possible, Smady said. We have also collaborated with people in our community and donated masks and sanitizers because our fans also look up to us. Militan said that, as artists, the band members have no option but to work around the constraints imposed by the virus, adding that musicians are far from alone in having to manage the impacts of the pandemic. Our art is interactive in nature because we perform at gatherings and our fans always want to interact with us, Militan said. As artists, we want to encourage people not to give up and to maintain hard work, especially during these times. We should always maintain a positive attitude and things will work out for the better. Despite the challenges, the groups members believe that the tough times will pass one day. And, before that happens, they will continue developing their music. I believe everybody can make it and I would like to encourage up and coming artists who have been hit hardest by the pandemic not to give up, Militan said. Everything in life takes sacrifices and this is a period when we are all called on to make sacrifices to beat the pandemic. otiatochinadaily.com.cn Kenyan music group Mbogi Genje members Malaka Yuen aka Militan left, Teddy Ochieng aka Guzman and Antony Odhiambo aka Smady. CHINA DAILY