It would be nice to put a lid on COVID jargon
2020/7/8 23:33
 Covid is now the word of the year. Global Language Monitor GLM, an Austin, Texas, dataresearch company that tracks trends in language usage worldwide, announced Friday in a midyear update that Covid is the Top Word of . Its no surprise that covid has risen to the top of the rankings, said Paul JJ Payack, president and chief word analyst at GLM. However, covid has received the highest number of citations ever recorded in our global survey. In fact, covid has outranked all previous Words of the Year in the st century by a factor of , or more. Covid is a rather nastylooking acronym, which is appropriate for a virulent disease. As you likely know, it stands for coronavirus disease, which is the deadly stage of the illness after a person has been infected. The Latin root  coronavirus crown virus  is much more mellifluous, whereas Covid looks like the name of a failed Chevrolet sports car. Im not thinking of the troubled Corvair, which had something of an early s cool allure, even though it had to live in the shadow of Chevys Corvette and Fords Mustang. Or maybe its a better name for an obsolete video format. I got rid of my Covid player when streaming became popular. Curiously, Covid outpaced its seemingly more prevalent cousin, Covid  the number representing the year  that the dread disease emerged  which registered as the No.  word of the year. GLM describes Covid as the official name of the virus caused by the SARS CoV virus, so named in WHOs International Classification of Diseases. Not surprisingly, five of GLMs top  words are related to the pandemic regular coronavirus was third, followed by corona at fourth. At No.  was face mask, the oftmaligned bane of outdoorbar patrons across the country. Social distancing weighed in at No. . Now even the floor of the main aisle at St. Patricks Cathedral in New York City has stickers every  feet  meters prompting parishioners to keep their distance. Incidentally, who came up with the clinicalsounding term that has permeated our lives since March? Apparently, social distancing jumped in usage in , around the time of the SARS sudden acute respiratory syndrome epidemic, according to Google data. But some citations list its use as far back as the s, in the field of sociology. Speaking of the WHO, the World Health Organization, the United Nations health agency, announced at a March  news conference that it was moving away from the term social distancing. Weve been saying physical distancing because its important to remain physically separate but socially connected, said Maria Van Kerkhove, an infectious diseases epidemiologist with the WHO. She said that people should nurture their mental health and that of their loved ones during the pandemic. Theres no lockdown on laughter, she said. Theres no lockdown on talking to your family and finding ways to connect. Social distancing also shares an adjective with social media, the source of much of the discord in our current culture. But its likely too late to distance ourselves from the term. My main concern is that this switch in terminology  in the midst of the crisis violates one of the key principles of effective risk communication, which is to ensure that there is clarity and consistency in messaging, Lori Peek, a sociology professor at the University of Colorado at Boulder, wrote in an email to CNN in April. Pandemicrelated terms also populate the second half of the GLM list. Flatten the curve  which GLM describes as during a pandemic, the ability to manage the number of cases so as to not overwhelm the hospital system  registered at No. . It was followed by lockdown at No. . Zoom meeting was No. , a nod to the popular videoconferencing app that has exploded in popularity during the pandemic, sometimes with embarrassing moments for its athome participants. Quarantine rated th, with symptoms and outbreak completing the lineup at Nos.  and , respectively. I would be remiss if I didnt mention No.  trade war. GLM describes it as a colossal struggle between the US and China with worldwide repercussions. GLM began recording the Top Words of the Year in  to document the history of the st century through the English language, which as of January  counted more than . billion speakers. The company uses technology that it calls NarrativeTracker, which analyzes the internet, blogosphere, and the top , print and electronic global media as well as new social media sources as they emerge. Contact the writer at williamhennellychinadailyusa.com