Parents, teachers cheer on gaokao takers
2020/7/8 14:00
The gaokao kicked off on July . On the first day of the makeorbreak event, parents and teachers came up with creative ways to wish good luck to their children and pupils. A parent wearing a mask reading succeed in the gaokao waits outside a test site at Yuhuatai High School in Nanjing, Jiangsu province. .com.cn A parent holds a sunflower to cheer for her child at a test site in Huaibei city, Anhui province. The sunflower became a popular symbol among the parents this year, as the sunflower is also called xiangrikui in Chinese. This is a partial homophone with the expression yi ju duo kui, which means triumph in one go.  Parents wearing traditional qipao garments cheer for their children outside a test site at Chongqing Nankai Middle School. Qipao shares a character with the Chinese phrase qi kai de sheng which literally means success at first attempt. .com Two parents wearing traditional qipao carry a xiangqi Chinese chess board and a banner that reads Life is like playing chess, changing with each move outside a test site in Zhengzhou, Henan province. .com.cn A teacher ties a red rope on a students wrist to wish her good luck at the entrance of a test site at Guangzhou Nanwu Middle School in Guangdong province. .com.cn Examinees walk through Zhuangyuan Gate, after finishing the Chinese language test at Nanjing No  Middle School in Jiangsu province. The gate is named for the top scorer in ancient Chinese imperial examinations. .com A teacher wearing a red Tshirt holds a red banner to cheer for his students outside a test site in Shanghai. .com.cn A teacher holding a Buddhas hand fruit, a symbol of good fortune, waits outside a test site at Shanghai QiBao High School. .com.cn A parent puts her palms together to pray for good luck for her child outside a test site at Fuzhou Pingdong Middle School in Fujian province. .com.cn A parent holding a bunch of flowers waits outside a test site at Urumqi Senior High School in the Xinjiang Uygur autonomous region. .com.cn Parents give the sign for victory to cheer for their children outside a test site at Shanghai Nanyang High School. .com.cn ? ?