Schools partially reopen in Sri Lanka as COVID restrictions ease
2020/7/7 17:26
An officer sprays disinfectants inside a class room at a school as the Sri Lankas government expects to reopen schools after almost two months of lock down amid concerns about the spread of coronavirus disease COVID, in Colombo, Sri Lanka June , .  COLOMBO  Schools across Sri Lanka were partially reopened on Monday after being shut for nearly three months, as the spread of COVID has been put under control in the island country, local media reported Tuesday. According to the Education Ministry, schools were reopened for grades ,  and , leading to nearly , students returning back to school across the country. Strict health guidelines were followed as students were subjected to temperature checks, frequent washing of hands and wearing face masks. Chairs and desks were kept one meter apart in each class room and students were informed to speak to each other from a distance. All arrangements were made by the school management and staff as principals, teachers, and nonacademic staff were informed to report to work on June . The Education Ministry said that under the third phase, schools would reopen for grades  and  students on July , and under the fourth stage from July , schools would reopen for the rest except for grades  and . All sports activities and tests however have been canceled until further notice, the Education Ministry said. Sri Lanka has to date reported , positive COVID patients but has seen an over  percent recovery rate with , patients out of the total detected been successfully treated and discharged. Active patients are now down to , official statistics from the Health Ministry showed. Sri Lankas capital Colombo resumed economic operations at the end of May after being shut for nearly two months to prevent a further spread of the virus, and since then the country has seen the gradual reopening of several sectors. However, authorities have urged people to abide by all health guidelines such as wearing masks, maintaining social distancing and keeping hand hygiene.