Foreign airlines to resume passenger flights to China
2020/7/7 12:07
Teachers and parents watch as students enter Gezhi Middle School in Huangpu district in Shanghai on Tuesday to take their college entrance examination. Photos by Gao Erqiang  chinadaily.com.cn Around , students in Shanghai are undergoing this years national college entrance examination, also known as the gaokao, that will last from Tuesday to Thursday. At the gate of a test site at Shanghai Jincai High School, some teachers and school leaders from the Shanghai Experimental School wore red Tshirts  a color that represents good luck and prosperity in China C to show their support to the students. The senior year at high school is filled with challenges, and it is more stressful this year as the exam is delayed due to the COVID epidemic. Weve been focused on psychological counseling for students, and so far, they are in a stable mood, said a teacher surnamed Shi from the Shanghai Experimental School to local media. At the test site at the Yichuan High School, some candidates from Shanghai Cao Yang No.  High School were wearing red masks with Chinese characters feng kao bi sheng, meaning passing every exam on them. The masks were given by the teachers. This is a special year where wearing masks is the norm, and these gifts show teachers care and encouragement to students, Qian Meili, a teacher from the school, told local media. Teachers and parents watch as students enter Gezhi Middle School in Huangpu district in Shanghai on Tuesday to take their college entrance examination. Photos by Gao Erqiang  chinadaily.com.cn Around , students in Shanghai are undergoing this years national college entrance examination. Photos by Gao Erqiang  chinadaily.com.cn At the gate of a test site at Shanghai Jincai High School, some teachers and school leaders from the Shanghai Experimental School wore red Tshirts  a color that represents good luck and prosperity in China C to show their support to the students.Photos by Gao Erqiang  chinadaily.com.cn