Universities at risk of insolvency
2020/7/7 11:18
? Shoppers walk inside the Westfield Santa Anita mall during the outbreak of the coronavirus disease COVID, in Arcadia, California, US, June , .  Americans are being urged to resist confusing reopening with returning to normalcy and their president is being pressed to acknowledge that COVID is a major problem, as the death toll from the pandemic exceeded , on Monday. Two days after US President Donald Trump asserted without providing data that  percent of US novel coronavirus cases were totally harmless, three leading US health organizations issued an open letter, asking people to help stop the worst public health crisis in generations by wearing masks, social distancing and washing hands. COVID is not behind us and we must resist confusing reopening with returning to normalcy, officials of the American Medical Association, American Nurses Association and American Hospital Association said in the plea. Doing so will escalate this crisis and result in more suffering and death, they said. The health groups said that in the weeks since states began reopening, some of the steps taken early on that were critical to the progress in declined infection and deaths were too quickly abandoned. As a result, we are now watching in realtime as a dramatic uptick in COVID cases is erasing our hardwon gains. We are not powerless in this public health crisis, and we can defeat it in the same way we defeated previous threats to public health  by allowing science and evidence to shape our decisions and inform our actions, they said. Confirmed cases are on the rise in  out of  states plus the District of Columbia, and the percentage of tests coming back positive for the virus is increasing in  states, The Associated Press reported Monday. In California, new coronavirus cases soared over the July Fourth weekend. At least , residents tested positive in the past  hours, according to state records. New York Governor Andrew Cuomo, whose state is cautiously proceeding with a phased reopening, said, The virus goes up, stock market goes down and now the states are saying we have to close again. At a news briefing Monday, the Democratic governor said the Republican president was enabling the virus if he failed to address the severity of the situation. Dont be a coconspirator of COVID, do one simple thing acknowledge to the American people that COVID exists it is a major problem its going to continue until we admit it and each of us stands up to do our part, Cuomo said. He again urged the president wear a mask, saying that New York initiated a mask policy on April , first state in the nation to do so, which has made a difference. Trump has averted to wearing a mask in public but said last week he would use one in a tight situation with people. Jim Justice, the Republican governor of West Virginia, which has seen the number of confirmed COVID cases rise by  percent over the past two weeks, issued a mandatory mask order Monday, requiring everyone age  and above to wear face coverings inside buildings when social distancing isnt possible. White House chief of staff Mark Meadows said Monday that a national mandate requiring Americans to wear masks was not in order and the decision to require masks is a statetostate issue.