Writer calls COVID Trumps plague
2020/7/7 11:17
Attendees are seen as US President Donald Trump and first lady Melania Trump attend South Dakotas US Independence Day Mount Rushmore fireworks celebrations at Mt. Rushmore in Keystone, South Dakota, US, July , .  US President Donald Trump has repeatedly referred to the COVID pandemic as the China virus, but a former speechwriter for George W. Bush argued in a recent magazine article that this is Trumps plague now, charging that he has mishandled the response to the outbreak. Staff writer David Frum, author of Trumpocalyse Restoring American Democracy  and a speechwriter for Bush in , said that Trumps push for reopening and his contempt for maskwearing are contributing to the current surge of the novel coronavirus in the United States. Frum listed the trajectory of COVID infections in the US the virus peaked on April  with , new cases. By midMay, the country had reduced the rate of infection by nearly half, to , on May . On June , the country suffered almost , new infections  nearly , more in one day than on the worst day in April. All of the sacrifices of the past weeks have been thrown away, Frum wrote. Among a series of Twitter posts on Monday, the Republican president defended the administrations handling of the virus and went after the media, his Democratic presidential rival Joe Biden and the Democratic Party. Why does the Lamestream Fake News Media REFUSE to say that China Virus deaths are down , and that we now have the lowest Fatality Mortality Rate in the World. They just cant stand that we are doing so well for our Country! The Democrats would not have BANNED travel from heavily infected China, especially so early, therefore, far more people would have died. Corrupt Joe Biden now admits this!!! Biden also took to Twitter on Monday to criticize Trumps response to the pandemic. With COVID surging across the nation, Donald Trump should be doing everything in his power to increase access to testing. Instead, hes doing the opposite. Its despicable, Biden wrote. In an earlier tweet Monday, the former vicepresident said It didnt have to be this bad. But Donald Trump failed to do his job  and were all paying the price. Frum wrote that the pandemic was first aggravated by what he called Trumps negligence and indifference. He had dismantled the countrys pandemic preparedness. He denied the disease for two months. Then Trump pushed for a quick reopening in April which led to the ongoing surge of infections, Frum said. Georgia reopened on April . Texas followed on May  and Florida on May . The COVID news from midMay on would be almost all bad, Frum wrote. The disease is spiking in places precisely where state governments hastened to reopen bars, casinos, restaurants, shopping malls, and other indoor places of entertainment. Phoenix, Houston, and other southern cities are suddenly reporting caseloads that look like New York City at its worst. As of  pm on Tuesday, there were more than . million coronavirus cases in the US, with approximately , deaths, according to data compiled by Reuters. New York, with nearly , deaths, and New Jersey, with more than ,, far exceed the death tolls in other states. They are followed by Massachusetts, with more than , deaths, and Illinois, with more than ,. Alaska and Hawaii each have fewer than  COVID deaths. On the US mainland, Wyoming  and Montana  have the lowest fatality rates. Frum wrote that early reopening could only have worked if stringent safety measures, including the use of face masks and social distancing, were incorporated. Yet the president sabotaged the reopening he himself had forced, Frum wrote. Throughout his presidency, Trump has subordinated rational policy in order to provoke virulent culture wars. And the mask has become a rallying symbol for his supporters. Frum pointed out that Trump never wears a mask in public and mocked Biden for wearing one. I see Biden. Its like his whole face is covered. Its like he put a knapsack over his face. He probably likes it that way, Frum quoted Trump in a May  report by The Wall Street Journal. Those who supported Trump helped to turn the issue of masks into a political one, Frum said. For example, commentator Rush Limbaugh mocked the mask as a symbol of fear. The conservative web publication The Federalist posted a piece headlined, Mandatory Masks Arent About Safety, Theyre About Social Control. And a local official in Arizona used George Floyds dying words, I cant breathe, to mock maskwearing. Sebastian Gorka, a former Trump adviser, has called masks the COVID burqas, equating maskwearing to an act of submission. In advance of Trumps rally in Tulsa, Oklahoma, on June , city employees affixed do not sit here please stickers to every other seat in the stadium venue. Trump campaign workers were captured on video removing the stickers so that the president could seat attendees closer together. Trumps elevation of the needs of his own ego over the wellbeing of even his strongest supporters is profoundly implicated in the viruss powerful June comeback, wrote Frum. Frum said that millions of citizens obeyed the cues from Trump, the rightwing media, and the medical crackpots who predominate Facebook. In the face of this worsening crisis, Trump is not taking action hes instead shifting the goalposts Dont pay attention to the case rate, he now argues. Look at the death rate, Frum wrote, quoting Trumps tweet. Frum predicted that the US will see an increase in the COVID death toll in late July, due to the current surge in cases. Across the rest of the developed world, COVID has been ebbing. As a result, borders are reopening, and economies are reviving. Here in the US, however, Americans are suffering a new disease peak worse than the worst of April. How lethal will this new peak be? We will learn that the way we seem to learn everything in this era of Trump the hard way, Frum concluded.