Growing infections put shadow on Trump event
2020/7/7 10:39
A member of Central Industrial Security Force CISF personnel stands guard inside the empty premises of the historic Taj Mahal during a nationwide lockdown to slow the spread of COVID, in Agra, India, April , .  NEW DELHITaj Mahal, Indias top tourist attraction, will stay closed as the country on Monday became the thirdhardesthit nation in the global pandemic with nearly , coronavirus cases. Data from the Indian Health Ministry on Monday showed , new cases had been reported in the previous  hours, down slightly from Sundays record increase of almost ,. The increase has made India the worlds thirdworstaffected country, behind only the United States and Brazil. But Indias tally is not expected to peak for several more weeks and experts predict the  million figure will be passed this month. Globally, more than ,, confirmed cases have been recorded with more than , deaths, according to a tally by Johns Hopkins University in the US. Indias major cities have been worst hit by the pandemic. New Delhi and Mumbai each has about , cases, with , dead in the capital and nearly , in Mumbai. In the capital, medical staff started treating patients at a spiritual center converted into a sprawling isolation facility and hospital with , beds, many made of cardboard and chemically coated to make them waterproof. About the size of  soccer fields, the facility on the outskirts of the city will treat mild coronavirus cases. Local government officials fear Delhi, home to nearly  million people, could record more than halfamillion cases by the end of the month. Meanwhile, other cities are also tightening restrictions on movement to head off a new surge in cases. The Kerala states capital, Thiruvananthapuram, imposed a new lockdown from Monday with public transport shut and only pharmacies allowed to open. The clampdown came after hundreds of new cases were reported across the state, which had been praised for its action to curtail the pandemic. In another development, local authorities in the northern city of Agra said Taj Mahal, one of the New Seven Wonders of the World, would remain closed to visitors even though the national government said it had permission to reopen on Monday. Previously, Indias Culture Ministry had decided to reopen all monuments across the country on Monday after more than three months with a cap on the number of visitors and mandatory wearing of face masks. The shining marble mausoleum has been closed since midMarch as part of measures to try to combat the pandemic. Agencies Via Xinhua