Increase in infections worldwide hits record
2020/7/7 9:30
Vehicles run through a waterlogged section of road in Wuhan, Central Chinas Hubei province after torrential rain hit the city on July . Photo by Ke Haochinadaily.com.cn Authorities have taken precautions to ensure test can proceed normally Over , students in Wuhan, Hubei provincethe city hit hardest by the coronavirus in Chinawill take the national college entrance exam, or gaokao, on Tuesday. Local authorities from various departments have taken detailed measures to ensure a safe exam despite the hot weather and possible torrential rain that may seriously affect the traffic and the English listening test. Unlike Beijing, where all students have been required to wear masks during the whole examination, students in Wuhan are only required to wear masks when entering the examination rooms and can choose to take them off during the exam. The citys Admission and Examination Office has prepared special masks printed with the words Wuhan Gaokao for each student. All the classrooms at  examination sites spreading over the citys  districts have been disinfected. Students can enter the sites after having their temperatures checked. Tang Renmao, deputy director of the Wuhan Meteorological Service, said that heavy rains, thunderstorms and gales might hit the city during the twoday examination. The city will face a severe drainage challenge and we will provide a detailed weather forecast twice a day to inform the education and traffic departments about the possible disastrous weather, Tang said. Wuhan had a recordbreaking accumulated rainfall of . centimeters on Sundaythe previous biggest rainfall was . centimeters. About , workers with the flood prevention department have been dispatched. The students can take buses and subways for free during the exam after showing their exam permit. Some local companies will provide free rides for the students. Feng Nong, director of the Wuhan Admission and Examination Office, said that all examination rooms have airconditioners and emergency power backup. The English listening test will be suspended if a thunderstorm hits during that portion of the exam, Feng said. The students may do the writing part of the English exam first and then take the listening exam, or the English test may be prolonged until the thunderstorm stops. The examination sites will also open in advance for the students to shelter from the rain, and they can stay in the rooms when the exam finishes if the heavy rain continues, according to Feng. Zhu Yuejiu, a th grader at Hubei Experimental Middle School, said that he has full confidence in the upcoming exam despite the possible thunderstorm and the past COVID outbreak. Youll get high scores if you study hard and learn well, he said. The pandemic and weather dont affect me much, and Ive learned to ignore them. Anyway, Ill leave home one hour earlier tomorrow morning to better prepare for the exam. Lu Haiwen, a parent whose daughter is a graduating student at Shuiguohu Senior High School said that she hopes the exam will end as quickly as possible. Its been a tough and unforgettable experience for my daughter and my family to prepare for the exam during this special year, she said. I told her that she just needs to do her best. Theres no need to worry or panic. Zhou Lihua in Wuhan contributed to this story.