Intensifying tensions not good for India China Daily editorial
2020/7/7 9:16
Joey Chestnut poses after winning the Nathans Famous Fourth of July International Hot Dog Eating Contest with a world record  hot dogs consumed in Brooklyn, in New York City, on July , .  Joey gobbles up the competition with world record When it comes to man vs dog, Joey Jaws Chestnut stands alone as an unstoppable force. The yearold former construction foreman, who tips the scales at  kilograms  pounds, won , and his th Mustard Belt at Nathans Famous July Fourth hot dogeating contest on Saturday in New York, downing a worldrecord  dogs and buns in  minutes. En route to passing the ,hot dog milestone in competitive eating, Chestnut defeated runnerup and fellow American Darron Breedon by  dogs and buns. Officially sanctioned by Major League Eating MLE, the Nathans contest has been a staple of Americas Independence Day celebrations for decades. It was telecast live on ESPN to an estimated  million viewers in the US and Canada, who tuned in to watch the championship field go headtohead mouthtomouth? in a spectatorfree indoor venue on Coney Island. To conform to coronavirus safety measures, the venue featured a ninemeterlong table with just five competitors, compared to the typical . All the eaters wore face masks right up to their first bite. Chestnut chomped his way into the world of competitive eating in  while he was a university student in California. His first major victory came that spring when he wolfed down three kilograms of fried asparagus in  minutes and  seconds. He qualified for his first Nathans hot dogeating contest two months later and ate  dogs. By , Chestnut had become such a force on the competitive eating circuit that he was able to quit his job in construction management and focus fulltime on training, perfecting the unique technique in which he punctuates his torrid chewing with short gulps of water. Over the past decade Chestnut has cemented his status as the greatest competitive eater of all time, claiming  records officially recognized by MLE. Among them are  hardboiled eggs in eight minutes and  Twinkies creamfilled cakes in six minutes. ? Mens champion Joey Chestnut and womens champion Miki Sudo pose together after winning the Nathans Famous Fourth of July International Hot Dog Eating Contest in Brooklyn, in New York City, on July , .  According to CelebrityNetWorth.com, since  Chestnut has earned roughly . million for his eating prowess, including sponsorships. He recently launched Joey Chestnut Select, a line of condiments that includes Chestnuts Firecracker Mustard, Boardwalk Coney Sauce and DeliStyle Mustard. Profits from online sales of the condiments have benefitted Hidden Heroes, a charitable program for assisting wounded US soldiers. Nobody gets real rich in competitive eating, but you can earn a pretty comfortable living doing this, Chestnut said in an interview with ESPN ahead of Saturdays contest. My ultimate goal, to be honest, is to win enough money to build and outfit a new cafeteria for my old elementary school. Thats kind of where I first discovered I had a talent for eating, so Id like to give something back. As for what it takes to always be on when the bell rings, Chestnut said his biggest rush comes from the roar of the crowd. I love the competition and the crowds. Its a real rush to go out there and have to defend a title or try for a new one  but its a much different vibe this year, with no fans in the stands and nobody cheering. I miss the people, but Im not gonna let that affect the way I compete. True to his word, he was able to adjust. I didnt consciously start to miss the crowd until the sixth minute  then I hit a wall, Chestnut said after being presented with the Mustard Belt. Being inside helped. I knew I was on track for the record I got my rhythm early and never looked back.