Trending toward travel
2020/7/7 7:30
Tourists boat on the West Lake in Zhejiang provinces Hangzhou. Photo by Long WeiFor China Daily Domestic tourism is recovering as the epidemic comes under control in China, but outbound numbers seem unlikely to rebound until next year, industry insiders say. Beijings Wtown resort has continued offering sanitation kits containing disinfecting wipes and hand sanitizers since it reopened in late April. The water towns visitor numbers rebounded by up to  percent in May. A lot of people have called to ask about safety, says Wang Zuoquan, an official with the attraction. Although the recent COVID flareup in the capital has put a damper on travel enthusiasm, Wang believes things will return to normal soon, as Beijing brings the outbreak under control. Well continue to offer sanitation services and packages in the long run, even when the domestic epidemic situation is completely over, Wang says. Such safety measures as hygiene and social distancing are expected to be standard practices in the tourism industry until a vaccine is available, says a report on trends that will shape postepidemic domestic travel by Mailman X, a Shanghaibased China travelandlifestyle marketing agency. These rules, along with general controls like ensuring traveler numbers dont exceed  percent of the maximum capacity, reduce the risk of new outbreaks, the report says. Chinese tourists increasingly place a premium on hygiene. The Wtown resort is a hot destination in Beijings suburban Miyun district.?Photo provided to China Daily I continue to wear my mask, even though restrictions have lifted, because I want to feel hygienic and protected wherever I go, says Pan Siyang, a traveler from Zhejiang province. I want this to be the case in other countries, too. A big data report by Baidu and People.cn reveals that, from Jan  to , over  billion people searched for information about COVID, including best practices to maintain clean environments. As more Chinese people begin to fly again, there will be a stronger focus on the risks of travel and understanding the status of COVID in the destination, Mailman X business director Michael Lin says. Chinas Center for Disease Control and Prevention offers a searchable COVID risk assessment coupled with a QRcode system created by Ant Financial, which classifies individuals status using red, yellow and green color codes. These measures will reassure Chinese travelers of safety and sanitation when they venture back into public spaces and mitigate risks at venues, the report says. Shanghai Disneyland reopened in May, with visitor numbers capped at  percent. Guests are required to wear facemasks at all times, and only those with a green QR status can enter. The domestic tourism market continued to recover over the recent Dragon Boat Festival holiday. The country recorded over . million tourist visits over the threeday holiday, the Ministry of Culture and Tourism reports. Tourism revenue reached . billion yuan . billion. Bookings for attractions in China increased by  percent at the beginning of May compared with the TombSweeping Day holiday in early April. People are clearly itching to get out and about, making the importance of these controls crucial to public and individual safety, Lin says. As Chinas economy emerges from viruscontainment measures, the rebound in leisure travel has so far been conservative, with most people choosing to stay close to home. Visitors aboard a highway train in Yantai, Shandong province. Photo by Tang KeFor China Daily Independent travel in open spaces is favored since it allows for social distancing, the Mailman X report says. Crowded transportation options are less popular with  percent of travelers, who opt to drive themselves. Nearly  percent prefer highspeed trains, according to the report. A McKinsey survey of , travelers in eight Chinese cities found  percent are planning trips between September and October, around the weeklong National Day holiday that starts on Oct . And  percent are waiting on announcements from experts or the reopening of schools. About half are opting for domestic travel only. Between  and  percent of respondents feel that travel was not safe at all in early April. But this attitude is changing. Car rentals increased by  percent during the May Day holiday of  compared with the same period in . Shanghai, Hainan and Chengdu were the most popular destinations, the Mailman X report says. This shows that, as restrictions are lifted and we see a rise in public confidence, the numbers grow immensely, Lin says. While China is showing positive signs of recovery, domestic travelers have reduced spending on nonessential purchases like luxury items. A report on COVIDs impact on luxury sales from consulting firm Boston Consulting Group says luxury brands should expect a sales decline of  billion to  billion in . This will come as no surprise, since  percent of the surveyed Chinese participants say theyd work harder to earn more, but only  percent are willing to shop more, Lin says. The BCGs bestcase scenario estimates that sales will still be down by at least  percent by December compared with . The Bosten Lake in the Xinjiang Uygur autonomous regions Bayingolin Mongol autonomous prefecture attracts tourists with its natural scenery. Photo by Nian LeiFor China Daily While Chinese believe therell be a steady increase in household incomes, savings and spending as restrictions ease, current purchases for such categories as apparel are  to  percent lower than the preCOVID figures, Lin says. Cities across the country, most notably Wuhan, Hubei provincethe city hit hardest by the outbreakare distributing coupons to boost retail spending. Shanghai issued  billion yuan worth of coupons during the May Day holiday. Other trends the Mailman X report mentions are decreased outbound travel interest due to rising xenophobia and increased desire for domestic travel. Stories of Chinese people involved in racial incidents have gone viral, causing fear. This is affecting tourism because people refrain from traveling to countries in which these undesirable incidents have taken place, Lin says. China has been the largest source of outbound travel for years and spent . billion on overseas trips in . Concerns about xenophobia will have serious negative effects on such popular destinations as the United Kingdom and the United States, Lin says. Junlyu, the countrys first allelectric passenger ship, runs sightseeing trips on the Yangtze River in Wuhan on June . Photo by Li ChanglinFor China Daily Trip.com reports that younger people have been the main travel force, with people born after  accounting for over half of bookings. Chinese will largely be restricted to domestic travel for the rest of , which means that the opening of international borders in  will see a boom in people hungry for overseas travel, the Mailman X report says. Lin predicts that  could see some of the biggest tourist numbers on record. China has entered the recovery stage and is putting an end to months of lockdown, Lin says. Business as usual has resumed for many, as the country looks to reignite its economy, and the travel industry in particular. Consumer attitudes have changed during COVID, Lin says. Travel companies and operators will need to adjust to the new normal.