Quarantine dreams or too much time on ones hands?
2020/7/7 7:05
The coronavirus recently reappeared in the capital, but once again seems to be on the wane. Today, dear reader, I have a special treat for you. As you know, COVID dreams are a thing, many of us have found. And they dont typically involve being awarded the Nobel Prize in biochemistry for being the first to invent a workable curevaccine to the contagion. Nothing so simple, or feel good. So Ill soon describe a recent dream I hadconsider it the subconscious getting the kinks out amid social distancing and quarantines. As an added bonus, I will offer my dream analysis at the end. No peeking please. That being said, everything eventually has the potential to become a thing if you give it enough time and opportunity. After all, if youre a multiuniversalist, you believe theres another carbon copy of yourself roaming a galaxy on the periphery of the visible universe, also disliking mosquitoes and the Red Sox with an unhealthy passion. If this grand . billionyearold universe we inhabit is just one of, say,  to the power of  wish I could type raised numerals, then its a statistical certainty that someone with your exact genome or at least the ones that make executive, phenotypical decisions is roaming another cosmos. Heck, he even has the same name as you. And we all know about the Infinite Monkey Theorem in which a primate randomly banging away on a typewriter they still use typewriters? for an infinite amount of time will almost surely type the complete works of Shakespeare. Hope Koko the gorilla is compensated for carpal tunnel. But back to the COVID dreams. Psychology Today recently said two such reveries are making the REM rounds. The first involves encountering people who appear to be clean but are in fact infected. Think the final scene from Invasion of the Body Snatchers where Donald Sutherlands tonsils are prominently on display. Another variety involve dreams of the pandemic months before the first cases were documented. Too bad these alphastate prophets didnt have the temerity a year ago to warn the National Health Commission, the World Health Organization or the Centers for Disease Control. Their names would be household by now if they had. I for one havent had any of the above reveries. But one recently stood out, and was definitely COVIDrelated. All these months of shutdowns, temp checks, selfisolation and masks sometimes mask deeper anxieties that come unmasked if we were, perchance, to dream. Such was the case when I found myself deserted on a tropical island with zero chance of rescue. However, I was given three choices, not sure by whom. Perhaps the Milky Way municipal authorities? The New York state government in Albany? Regardless, they were  Have access on the island to a library containing all the books ever published up until that point, without the Bloom County librarian chasing down overdues with the battle axe this suggests dreamer is sentimental for days gone by.  Have a solarpowered radio dreamer is curious about the future, afraid of drowning in own thoughts and voice.  Have a pet dog dreamer is an optimist, well read, and will make a luxury treehouse with pups wagging tail as applause. A few conditions were provided. The library included all books in every language ever composed, but no music CDs on lend. The radio was a receiver only, and could not be jerryrigged to transmit my voice to the outer world. The dog was guaranteed to outlive me, if only by a day, and was immune to mishaps and maladies, including COVID of course. Other details were provided. I would be guaranteed a healthy life of  years on the island, and would remain fixed at an age of my choosing. My first inclination was to choose No . After all, I could always patrol the rain forest and find myself a nice, chatty African gray parrot to keep me company. No, the dream voice said ... The islands forest has nothing but fruit, honeybees to pollinate the flora, and earthworms to bait my hooks. And No, dolphins or lost seals would not be in the shallows to befriend me. OK, so unless I found a way to converse with bees or night crawlers, I better choose No  if I wanted intelligent conversations. But then, I got to thinking... With the radio, I could hear other human voicestalk shows, hourly news, baseballat will. But ... If I hear of a killer quake hitting my hometown, would I want to hear such tidings, knowing I could not communicate with loved ones or survivors? After much rumination, I was still undecided. Would I spend all my time listening to baseball while trying to build the perfect Kon Tiki raft, even though I was told rescue was impossible? Or would I more likely stay sane taking walks on the beach with a fourlegged friend, who would have to get used to my singing and reciting snippets of poems recalled from my college days? If I did choose No , I would make sure it was a sturdy retriever, or even a Great Dane. After all, I want someone to help me drag palms and reeds out of the undergrowth to my Heyerdahlinspired workshop.