Louvre museum reopens after week virus shutdown
2020/7/6 14:45
? Media people, wearing protective face masks, stand in front of the painting Mona Lisa La Joconde by Leonardo Da Vinci at the Louvre museum in Paris as the museum prepares to reopen its doors to the public following the coronavirus disease COVID outbreak in France, June , .  PARIS  The Louvre, the worlds most visited museum, reopens after its coronavirus closure Monday, but with nearly a third of its galleries still shut. The vast former palace of Frances kings has lost more than  million euros  million in ticket sales during the nearfourmonth lockdown, and director JeanLuc Martinez admitted it could have a few more lean years ahead as the world adapts to the virus. Although most of the museums most popular draws, like the Mona Lisa and its vast antiquities collection will be accessible, other galleries where social distancing is more difficult will remain closed. Nor will there be any crowding in front of Leonardo da Vincis masterpiece for a selfie, with visitors warned that they will have to stick to standing on welldistanced spots marked on the floor. To avoid bottlenecks, arrows will guide visitors through the labyrinth of galleries, with doubling back banned, the museum said. Some  percent of the Louvres . million visitors last year were from overseas, and with tourism at a standstill, Martinez told AFP that numbers could drop sharply. We are losing  percent of our public, he said. We are going to be at best  to  percent down on last summer  between , and , visitors a day, he estimated. The museum hopes to attract more French visitors to fill the gap as it embarks on a campaign to shake off its elitist image before the Paris Olympics in four years time. Martinez, who comes from a workingclass background, said he wanted to build on the outreach success of the Louvres outpost museum in Lens, a poor former mining town in northern France. He said sometimes the Louvre can intimidate certain demographics and the museum needs to reassure people that its collections are also for them with improved presentation, labelling and curation. AFP