The world in photos June   July
2020/7/6 14:42
Here are some of the most striking images taken from around the world over the past week. An artist is seen with his artworks at Green Path, a hub of openair art shows, in Colombo, capital of Sri Lanka, on July , . Openair art shows at Green Path disappeared temporarily due to a nationwide curfew imposed by the Sri Lankan government to prevent the spread of COVID since March . After the curfew was lifted on June , artists gradually returned here to display their artworks.  Professor Albert Bosch from the Faculty of Biology of the University of Barcelona works in the office. He confirmed on June  that a study he had coordinated detected the presence of the novel coronavirus in waste water samples collected in Barcelona on March , .  An aerial view shows the words Rice, Water, SOS spelled out on the ground in the floodravaged Kuma village, Kumamoto prefecture, southern Japan, in this photo taken by Kyodo July , .  A woman pays attention to the situation at the explosion site in Teheran, June , . At least  people were killed in an explosion at a clinic in the northern district of Irans capital Tehran on Tuesday, said Jalal Maleki, spokesman for the Firefighting Organization of Tehran.  People visit the Sagrada Familia basilica on the day of its reopening in Barcelona, Spain on July , . One of Spains most famous landmarks, Sagrada Familia opened its doors to visitors last Saturday for the first time since Spain was placed under lockdown on March  due to the coronavirus pandemic.  Edouard Philippe left and Jean Castex right attend the handover ceremony in the courtyard of the Hotel Matignon in Paris, Franc, on July , . Jean Castex, a yearold top civil servant not known to the French general public, was appointed new prime minister by President Emmanuel Macron to replace Edouard Philippe, the French presidential palace announced last Friday.  People visit the Flea Market in Frankfurt, Germany on July , . The market, which trades secondhand goods, reopened here last Saturday with strict COVID prevention measures.  Students wearing masks and shields participate in a college entrance exam in Sale, Morocco on July , .  A formation of planes flies over Washington DC area during an air show to celebrate US Independence Day on July , .  People ski at Whakapapa ski field in New Zealands North Island on July , . The ski field opened a small portion at a lower elevation to the public last Friday.  A man shows desert locusts he caught in Sanaa, Yemen on July , . Desert locusts swarmed through the Yemeni Houthiheld capital Sanaa last Friday, invading crops and leaving farmers of the wartorn country in despair.  The audience watches Beethovens Fidelio in separate boxes during the Film Festival at Viennas Rathausplatz, Austria on July , . This years Film Festival at Viennas Rathausplatz opened last Saturday.  Workers set up a care centre converted from an indoor stadium as the numbers of COVID cases rise in New Delhi, India, on June , .  A health worker takes a throat swab sample of a passerby for COVID testing in Kigali, capital of Rwanda, July , . Rwandas Ministry of Health on Thursday launched a COVID street testing survey in Kigali to probe the COVID situation in the city.  Rescuers carry the body of a victim after the landslides at a jade mining site in Hpakant, Kachin State, Myanmar on July , .  ? A relative makes a phone call near a fireworks factory where an explosion happened in Sakarya province, Turkey, July , . Turkish ministers on Friday said the death toll in an explosion at a fireworks factory in Turkeys northwestern province of Sakarya rose to four and the number of wounded people to . 