Coronavirus nudges US hospitals to brink
2020/7/6 14:42
Hospital staff work at the United Memorial Medical Centers coronavirus disease COVID intensive care unit in Houston, Texas, US, June , .  WASHINGTON  After lockdown measures were eased in some states, the United States is struggling to respond to the devastation wrought by COVID even harder. Although President Donald Trump, without scientific ground, claimed that  percent of the cases in his country were totally harmless during his Independence Day speech, officials have warned that hospitals were in danger of being overwhelmed, particularly after seeing the possibility of a further spike in infections caused by the holiday celebrations. The latest Johns Hopkins University tally showed that the death toll in the United States has hit nearly , and the number of confirmed cases reached . million. In the first four days of July alone, at least  states have reported record increases in new cases of COVID, according to a Reuters report. Texas is one of these states, with , new cases on Saturday. The number of COVID patients currently hospitalized rose to a record , on Saturday, compared with , just two weeks ago. At least two counties in south Texas  Starr and Hidalgo  said even before the holiday weekend that they have hospitals already at full capacity. Our hospitals here in Harris County, Houston, and  other cities ... theyre into surge capacities. So their operational beds are taken up, said Lina Hidalgo, chief executive of Harris County, which includes Houston. What we need right now is to do what works, which is a stayhome order, she said in ABCs This Week on Sunday. We dont have room to experiment. We dont have room for incrementalism, when were seeing these kinds of numbers, she added. Steve Adler, mayor of Austin, Texas, also expressed concern that the healthcare system could buckle as the disease spreads rapidly. If we dont change the trajectory, then I am within two weeks of having our hospitals overrun. And in our ICUs, I could be  days away from that, he told CNNs State of the Union on Sunday. Houston Mayor Sylvester Turner echoed Adlers concerns. The number of people who are getting sick and going to the hospitals has exponentially increased. The number of people in our ICU beds has exponentially increased, he said on CBS Newss Face the Nation on Sunday. In fact, if we dont get our hands around this virus quickly, in about two weeks, our hospital system could be in serious, serious trouble, Turner said. Demand for testing has also outstripped the citys capacity, he added, and the positivity rate has soared from  percent a month ago to  percent recently. In Phoenix, capital and the most populous city of Arizona, people gathered on Saturday without masks or social distancing to listen to a speaker at a rally against restrictions to prevent the spread of the virus. We opened way too early in Arizona, said Phoenix city Mayor Kate Gallego, who also joined Sundays This Week program, suggesting that a new stayathome order should be issued. The state of Arizona reported , new COVID cases on Sunday, and has reportedly seen about  percent of its ICU beds taken. California reported , new cases on Sunday, and coronavirusrelated hospitalizations in Los Angeles County have increased by  percent in three weeks as the number of daily cases trends upward, the government website showed.