Independiente hopeful of Biglia deal
2020/7/6 9:58
A shopper wearing a protective mask is seen at a retail store following the outbreak of the coronavirus disease COVID, in New York, US, July , .  Some nations may need to reintroduce lockdown curbs, WHO official warns GENEVAA record increase in the number of novel coronavirus cases was marked on Saturday, ,, according to the World Health Organization, with the United States, Brazil and India leading with the largest increases. The previous record reported by the WHO was , on June . About , people continue to die each day. Worldwide, there are nearly  million confirmed cases, the WHO said. The virus has spread around the world with the epicenter shifting from East Asia to Europe and then to the Americas. The biggest increase reported on Saturday occurred in North and South America, in which there were almost , new cases in the latest  hours, taking the total in the region to nearly . million. In the US, Johns Hopkins University counted , new infections on Saturday after three days in which the daily count reached as high as , new cases. Brazil reported , new cases on Saturday for a total of nearly . million confirmed cases and nearly , deaths. India followed with nearly , new cases on Saturday for a total of nearly , with more than , deaths. Europe had a total of . million cases, the Eastern Mediterranean . million, Southeast Asia nearly ,, Africa more than , and the Western Pacific nearly ,, the WHO said. In a report, the WHO said factors such as case detection, definitions, testing strategies, reporting and lag times differ between countries, territories and areas. A WHO official warned last week that some countries may have to reintroduce lockdown measures as they struggle to contain the virus. Not too late to act fast Some countries which have had success in suppressing transmission which are opening up now may have a setback, may have to implement interventions again, may have to implement these socalled lockdowns again, said Maria van Kerkhove, head of the WHOs emerging diseases unit, at a news briefing in Geneva. We hope not. We hope that we wont have to go into widespread lockdown again. So its not too late to act fast. In midJune the WHO said coronavirus cases reaching record numbers globally were not just the result of more countries testing. Mike Ryan, executive director of the WHOs emergencies program, said on June  that hospital admissions and deaths were also rising. Although the global figures of COVID show no signs of falling, many countries are slowly easing their prevention measures to restart their economies. The United Kingdom took its biggest step toward a return to normal on Saturday when it allowed pubs, barbers and movie theaters to reopen. Lets not blow it now, Prime Minister Boris Johnson urged compatriots as they headed out for a pint or a haircut. As other countries have emerged from lockdowns, authorities have been working to quash virus clusters as they have popped up. Authorities in northeastern Spain ordered a lockdown of El Segria county around the city of Lleida, home to more than , people, after health officials recorded a jump of  cases in  hours. The outbreaks are linked to agricultural workers in the rural area. Tokyo confirmed  new cases, exceeding  for the third day in a row and hitting a new twomonth high, prompting Governor Yuriko Koike to ask residents to avoid nonessential outoftown visits. Concerns are rising about a resurgence of infections as Japan is now nearly back to business as usual after its state of emergency was lifted in May. France said it was sending medics to its South American territory of French Guiana, where , new infections were confirmed over the past week according to the health authorities. Xinhua  Agencies