Strict protocols required to minimize risk of future COVID outbreaks
2020/7/6 8:45
Understandably, the primary focus of the authorities in the early stages of the COVID outbreak was to identify cases, then isolate victims so that the healthcare system could provide the medical support required and thereby reduce and eventually stop the spread of the virus. The ultimate goal in the early days was complete eradication, but as pandemic proportions developed, that prospect became much less likely anytime soon. Over the months we have continued to witness a massive escalation around the world, with the United States reporting the most infections and deaths. Protocols for response and control often seem to be driven by an array of government agendas and a general malaise, rather than basing actions or solutions on solid scientific advice. Some of this may have been a little sketchy in the very early days as many within the scientific community were working hard to grasp the true horror and devastation being unleashed. Similar weaknesses have been more prevalent in most countries. The rapid increase in infections bears testimony to many governments being reluctant to enforce strong regulation and people in those countries being unwilling to endure the harsh, shortterm measures needed to mitigate the damage to the community at large. Reports suggest that lessprivileged communities around the world have paid the highest price in terms of contagion and loss of life. The underlying reasons are pretty evident and need no further explanation. However in so many cases too little is being done, often too late with directives underpinned by a blind belief that things will somehow get better. This will not be the case. The easing of travel restrictions for example in Europe and indeed elsewhere is likely to result in further contagion, which, as we have already learned, has a tendency to spread quickly. In the case of Hong Kong, systemic weaknesses became apparent in the early stages of the outbreak, ranging from inadequate supplies of personal protective equipment for frontline workers, a shortage of masks for the elderly and lowincome families, or inadequate isolation of victims and possible carriers. Of greater concern has been the concept that all individuals are responsible enough or have the capacity, financial or otherwise, to selfisolate in line with directives. Violations, inadequate monitoring and tracking measures further increased the risk and reflected an unacceptable level of disregard for the safety of others. Overall, the situation in the SAR has been managed pretty well, and as a result Hong Kong is in a strong position with most indicators and indeed commentators acknowledging that the transmission of the virus has been contained and is currently under control. Almost all recent cases have been imported. Thankfully, the willingness by the vast majority of the general public to wear face masks from the outset is in all likelihood the decisive reason for containing the spread of the infection. So where that leaves Hong Kong, as travel restrictions are eased and borders reopen as we take the next steps toward some sense of normality in our lives, and what the new normal may be, remain unclear. In the meantime, there are some very serious issues that need to be properly addressed to avoid or reduce the likelihood of future problems that will impact the community and the economy in the event of another outbreak. The authorities have had five months to reflect on errors that may have been made or systemic weaknesses that exist alongside lessons learned, both at home and abroad, so that we should be adequately prepared if or when another outbreak occurs. But action is required. One of the first areas that should be addressed is accurate identification of potential carriers at an early stage. There is much evidence of temperature checks in office and commercial spaces across the city, but the potential for error remains unnecessarily high due to the reliance on security or general staff, computer aided or otherwise. Informed technical opinion suggests that most of the systems in use are inadequate and lack the ability to identify, report and alert in real time, , and often technical problems are unnoticed. This is simply not good enough. One hopes that the border entry points are using appropriate technology as a primary tool for managing, measuring and ensuring that early identification is as good as it possibly can be and that technology fit for the purpose is being deployed to ensure the safety of staff, customers and the public at large. Adequate quarantine facilities must also be high on the agenda of protective measures readily available. Selfisolation should only occur in preapproved locations supported by realtime monitoring to ensure that all regulations are being strictly adhered to and appropriate action is taken for breaches. Singapore recently withdrew work permits and has established fines of up to S, ,, or up to six months in prison or both for breaches of the regulations. This is a compelling deterrent. Another area that should be considered integral in controlling a possible major outbreak is social distancing. Consistently weak enforcement of regulations has been very evident over the past five months. It is important to remember that the harsh but welladvised closures of many businesses and services to reduce social contact have undoubtedly helped the containment, but it seems that while many were adhering to the rules and regulations, many were not. Most modes of public transport remained agnostic to the issue. In rush hour or indeed seemingly at any other time of day, socialdistancing measures have never been applied. Is being in an office, restaurant or bar with colleagues or friends observing good personal hygiene a greater risk than standing cheek to jowl on the MTR or a public bus for an extended time? Moving forward, it is more important than ever that the government develops a framework of protocols that can be mobilized at short notice to mitigate the risk of a future outbreak and reduce the need for more drastic actions that could cause further damage to residents and the economy alike. Perhaps other governments would be wise to follow some of the examples and protocols that have helped contain the spread of COVID in the Hong Kong SAR. The views do not necessarily reflect those of China Daily. ?