Latest on the novel coronavirus outbreak
2020/7/5 20:13
GREENVILLE?  A shooting at a nightclub early Sunday left two people dead and eight wounded in South Carolina, a sheriffs official said. Two Greenville County sheriffs deputies noticed a disturbance at Lavish Lounge just before  am, and saw a large crowd running out of the building, Sheriff Hobart Lewis said at a press conference. There was active gunfire from inside the building, Lt. Jimmy Bolt said in an initial statement, and Lewis said all the shots were fired inside. Both Lewis and Bolt initially said  people had been wounded  with at least four in critical condition, Lewis said  but Bolt told The Associated Press that two victims were likely counted twice in the confusion at the hospital. No one was immediately taken into custody. Bolt told the AP that the sheriffs office was looking for two suspects, but couldnt provide names or descriptions. We dont really have a person of interest that we can name, Lewis said at the press conference, later adding that authorities werent sure what led to the gunfire. Lewis said a very large crowd was at the nightclub for some type of concert. A post on Lavish Lounges Facebook page advertised a July  performance by trap rapper Foogiano. An Instagram direct message from the AP wasnt immediately returned, but a bookings representative told the AP via text message that Foogiano was fine and his team was safe. Coronavirus cases in South Carolina have risen swiftly and the states rate of positive tests is three times the recommended level. In late June, the Upstate city of Greenville  which has experienced some of the states highest COVID rates  became the first city to mandate face coverings in South Carolina, where Gov. Henry McMaster has refused to implement a statewide mask requirement. McMaster reminded South Carolinians last week that he hadnt lifted restrictions on large crowds, and that those operating nightclubs illegally or holding concerts against his orders dont have to be caught in the act to face criminal charges, but instead could be charged weeks later if COVID cases are traced back. Lewis said at the press conference that he didnt know whether the club had sought an exemption to the governors order or secured a permit for Saturday nights event, but said it was clear that the clubs patrons werent  feet  meters apart. Its certainly not the best situation to stop the spread of this virus, the sheriff said. A phone call and an Instagram direct message from the AP to Lavish Lounge werent immediately returned, but the club posted on Facebook just before  am that events have been postponed until further notice. Lewis said the victims, whose names were not immediately released, were taken to the Prisma Health hospital in Greenville, some via private vehicle. Bolt said that of the eight wounded, some had nonlifethreatening injuries and others were in critical condition, but he didnt have a tally of the latter. Prisma Health spokesperson Tammie Epps could not immediately comment when reached by telephone. Associated Press journalist Mallika Sen contributed to this report from Los Angeles. ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ?AP