WHO reports record singleday surge in global COVID cases
2020/7/5 9:20
Employees make masks used for Tibetan opera at a workshop in the business incubator dedicated to poverty alleviation in Nangqian county of Yushu Tibetan autonomous prefecture in Northwest Chinas Qinghai province on July , . Photo by Zhang Wenfangchinadaily.com.cn A business incubator dedicated to poverty alleviation is bearing fruits in Nangqian county of Yushu Tibetan autonomous prefecture in Northwest Chinas Qinghai province. Since being launched in November , the incubator has attracted and supported  rural cooperatives from across the county and benefited  impoverished households, or , people, directly and indirectly. The businesses settled in the park show strong local features as they produce Tibetan incense, carvings, highland barley wine, traditional Tibetan clothing, felt products and thangka. More than  employees working there earn around , yuan  a month and everyone was lifted out of poverty by . The cooperatives enjoy larger working space and low rent at five yuan per square meter per month. In addition, aggregation increases their profile in the county and beyond and helps them attract more business opportunities. Packed Tibetan incenses are displayed at the business incubator dedicated to poverty alleviation in Nangqian county of Yushu Tibetan autonomous prefecture in Northwest Chinas?Qinghai province on July , . Photo by Zhang Wenfangchinadaily.com.cn Employees paint thangka at a workshop in the business incubator dedicated to poverty alleviation in Nangqian county of Yushu Tibetan autonomous prefecture in Northwest Chinas Qinghai province on July , . Photo by Zhang Wenfangchinadaily.com.cn Tibetan black pottery items are displayed at the business incubator dedicated to poverty alleviation in Nangqian county of Yushu Tibetan autonomous prefecture in Northwest Chinas Qinghai province on July , . Photo by Zhang Wenfangchinadaily.com.cn A variety of felt products are on display at a workshop in the business incubator dedicated to poverty alleviation in Nangqian county of Yushu Tibetan autonomous prefecture in Northwest Chinas Qinghai province on July , . Photo by Zhang Wenfangchinadaily.com.cn The business incubator dedicated to poverty alleviation in Nangqian county of Yushu Tibetan autonomous prefecture in Northwest Chinas Qinghai province on July , . Photo by Zhang Wenfangchinadaily.com.cn A craftsman colors a mask used for Tibetan opera at a workshop in the business incubator dedicated to poverty alleviation in Nangqian county of Yushu Tibetan autonomous prefecture in Northwest Chinas Qinghai province on July , . Photo by Zhang Wenfangchinadaily.com.cn Employees make traditional Tibetan clothing at a workshop in the business incubator dedicated to poverty alleviation in Nangqian county of Yushu Tibetan autonomous prefecture in Northwest Chinas Qinghai province on July , . Photo by Zhang Wenfangchinadaily.com.cn Employees make Tibetan incense at a workshop in the business incubator dedicated to poverty alleviation in Nangqian county of Yushu Tibetan autonomous prefecture in Northwest Chinas Qinghai province on July , . Photo by Zhang Wenfangchinadaily.com.cn