National Gallery among first London museums to reopen after coronavirus closure
2020/7/3 15:03
An Iranian man and his son wearing a protective face mask walk in a street, following the outbreak of the coronavirus disease COVID, in Tehran, Iran, June , .  BEIJING  The raging coronavirus pandemic has continued to take a heavy toll on the world, especially on Middle East and Latin American countries, while European nations suffering economic losses due to the pandemic have been pushing for recovery. GRIM SITUATION The COVID situation still looks grim in the Middle East, with many governments strengthening measures to curb the diseases spread. Iran, the hardesthit country in the region, saw total fatalities from COVID surge to , on Thursday. With , new cases of infection, the countrys total confirmed cases have reached ,. Turkey on Thursday reported , new COVID cases, taking its tally to ,. The death toll has risen to ,, Turkish Health Minister Fahrettin Koca tweeted. Egypt confirmed on Thursday , new COVID infections, taking the total to ,. Daily infections in the country have been exceeding , cases since May . In Israel, the number of active coronavirus cases has reached ,, the highest since April , the health ministry said Thursday. The ministry also reported  new cases, bringing the caseload to ,. Earlier in the day, the Israeli government decided to limit gatherings in event halls, bars, nightclubs and places of worship to a maximum of  people, while the number of participants for other indoor gatherings was limited to . People walk at a popular shopping street, as the city eases restrictions and allows commerce to open, amid the coronavirus disease COVID outbreak in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, June , .  The infection data is clear, leaving us no choice. We must return to restrictions in order to flatten the curve, said Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu. Omani Minister of Health Ahmed AlSaidi on Thursday urged stricter implementation of antipandemic measures, saying it is time to increase the severity of punishment and tighten control. During the first four months of the virus presence in the country, the number of cases was only ,, while in the last month alone, , cases were reported, AlSaidi said. In Latin America, Brazil remains the worsthit in the region and a country with the second worst outbreak in the world after the United States. According to the latest data compiled by Johns Hopkins University, Brazil has registered ,, cases and , deaths. The country has reported the largest number of daily deaths globally over the past week, and both the numbers of daily cases and deaths have shown no signs of abating. Chile on Thursday reported a total of , COVID cases, with , deaths. Its lockdown measures remain in place, including a nighttime curfew enforced by military troops and police officers, closed borders, suspended schools and closed nonessential businesses. A visitor wears a face mask on a weekly market, amid the coronavirus disease COVID outbreak, in Kleinmachnow near Berlin, Germany, April , .  EUROPES RECOVERY ? As European countries have been reopening their borders and easing restrictions, stimulating the impacted economy has become a priority. Due to the lockdown measures to contain the spread of the coronavirus, the unemployment rate in the member Euro area hit . percent  a new high  in May, according to Eurostat on Thursday. The European Union EU unemployment rate was . percent in May, higher than one month before, said Eurostat, the statistical office of the EU. The tourism industry is a vital economic driver for many countries on the European continent, such as Italy and Spain. Many countries are trying to attract foreign visitors after reopening, as the number of tourists plummeted due to lockdown measures over the past months. German Chancellor Angela Merkel and President of the European Commission Ursula von der Leyen on Thursday pushed for an agreement on the multibillioneuro recovery fund to cope with the economic difficulties caused by the coronavirus pandemic. A large part of the fund, deemed vital for Europes economic stability, would be in grants for EU member states. The billioneuro over  billion rescue package proposed by the European Commission has prompted divisions among EU governments as the Netherlands, Austria, Sweden and Denmark insist the recovery fund be only based on loans that need to be paid back later. In a joint press conference after talking via video link with von der Leyen, Merkel reiterated the urgency for a scheme, warning that Europe is facing a difficult time and the impact of the pandemic on the economy has not yet faded. Merkels talk with von der Leyen was interpreted as the second vital step to rally support for the money to cushion the economic pains caused by COVID. On Monday, Merkel met with French President Emmanuel Macron and announced together their backing for a strong and efficient recovery fund. According to the German Press Agency, an EU summit on July  is set to decide on the recovery fund.