Walmart tries limiting interaction to fight virus
2020/7/3 11:33
Shoppers wearing face masks are pictured in the parking of a Walmart Superstore during the outbreak of the coronavirus disease COVID, in Rosemead, California, US, June , .  Walmart is launching a store in Arkansas without cashiers to stave off the novel coronavirus, as retailers try new initiatives to keep customers and staff safe. The retail giant announced in June that it would cut cashiers and checkout conveyor belts from its Fayetteville store to limit human interaction and to see if checkout times are faster. Staff still will be on hand to assist customers. In April, health officials closed a Walmart store in Denver after three people died from COVID and six staffers got ill. Selfservice checkouts already are in many Walmart stores nationwide, but the Arkansas pilot program will be the only store where human cashiers arent available. If the pilot program works, it will be implemented in more stores. Bob Phibbs, a retail expert with more than  years experience and the CEO of New Yorkbased Retail Doctor, said customer response to the change will be crucial. Retailers have tried to get rid of human interaction for decades, but every time you see someone saying this is a new course and this is the future, six months later we read they were all ripped out and you hear that they found shoppers didnt like them. Thats probably why theyre only doing it in one market, he told China Daily. In March, Walmart installed a touchfree payment system to prevent the spread of the coronavirus. It allows customers to add a credit or debit card to their Walmart app and hold their phones to a wireless portal at the checkout. There are  million employees in the retail sector, according to the National Retail Federation, making it the countrys largest privatesector employer. It contributes . trillion to annual GDP. In the first  days of the pandemic, the United Food and Commercial Workers International UFCW union said  workers died and , of its members were infected or exposed to the coronavirus. The Washingtonbased union has . million members. Target, Kroger, Costco, Albertsons, Whole Foods, Sams Club stores and Walmart have installed various safety measures, including Plexiglas sneeze guards, to protect staff. Some stores began using more automated robots to clean floors. Traditional brickandmortar stores have undergone a raft of changes to reduce the number of cashiers. Amazon Gos cashless stores accept only electronic payments. In March, Amazon began offering its technology dubbed just walk out to other major retailers, suggesting it could become a widely adopted way to shop after the pandemic. The technology detects what products shoppers take from or return to shelves and keeps track of them in a virtual cart. When done shopping, customers just walk out, and their cards are charged for the items. But Phibbs said that may not work for the nations largest retailers. Amazon Go is a convenience store. In Walmart, people are going and buying car seats, and TVs, and exponentially thats different to picking up aspirin, or a fresh sandwich or a Coke, he said.