Top  most valuable retail brands in
2020/7/3 10:49
Many scenic spots in?Egypt have resumed operation. The second half of  began on Wednesday, as tourism returned with further opening of economies. International travel has resumed as airports reopened months after strict aviation restrictions were imposed to stem the spread of COVID. Close to  tourists on board two flights from Ukraine on Wednesday landed in Egypts Red Sea resort cities of Hurghada and Sharm elSheikh. Upon arrival at Hurghada Airport, the passengers were greeted with flowers, souvenirs, and folk music and dancing. Egypt reported on Wednesday , new cases of COVID, taking its total tally since midFebruary to ,, with , deaths. Meanwhile, Lebanons Beirut airport also resumed operation after four months of being closed, with measures taken to detect suspected infections in place. At Istanbul Airport, Turkeys largest airport, the first COVID test center for international passengers was opened, with test results to be delivered within two hours at a cost of around  U.S. dollars. The Turkish government has been gradually relaxing COVID restrictions, with internet cafes and gaming halls across the country reopening alongside precautionary measures, such as regular regular disinfection, mandatory wearing of masks, and social distancing measures. On Wednesday, Turkey reported , new cases and  more deaths, taking its total infections and deaths to , and ,, respectively. In Europe, the first tourist train from the Czech Republic in months arrived in Croatias coastal city of Rijeka on Wednesday morning. The  passengers were greeted by Croatian Tourism Minister Gari Capelli and Rijeka Mayor Vojko Obersnel. Other European countries in which the coronavirus pandemic has slowed down are also expected to see a rebound in tourism. In Italy, a government policy intended to revive tourism took effect on Wednesday. According to a promotional program put in place until the end of this year, low and mediumincome households, couples, and individuals who spend holidays at Italian tourist facilities can benefit from a financial bonus of up to  euros . In Finland, a largescale openair market and dining area located on Helsinkis iconic ,squaremeter Senate Square opened to the public on Wednesday, in a move to encourage the catering and tourism industries. With  seats in total, a diverse selection of food and drinks, including breakfast, lunch, fine dining, cocktails and craft beers from local microbreweries, are to be served daily on a Super Terrace through the end of August. After more than three months of closure, cinemas reopened in Belgium ,as it entered Phase  of its deconfinement measures on July . Cultural and leisure events in the country have been allowed to resume, with up to  people allowed indoors and  people outdoors, provided that health and safety rules are followed.