Internet companies ramping up efforts to provide more flexible positions
2020/7/3 10:37
A commuter enters the bus through the rear door while wearing a face mask, during the outbreak of the coronavirus disease COVID in, San Diego, California, US, July , .? Community advocates see dangerous times in US with China scapegoating When Donalene Ferrer, an AsianAmerican nurse in San Diego, California, walked with her daughter and mother in their neighborhood, a car drove by and the couple inside it yelled You started the corona! They continued yelling obscenities after they parked in front of a house only three doors from Ferrers mothers. It was pretty disheartening. I cried when the commanderinchief, or whatever you want to call him, said China virus and kung flu. I kind of knew something was happening, said Ferrer, while recounting her encounter that happened three months ago. Her experience was one of the more than  incidents that took place in California and were selfreported on Stop AAPI Hate, a website that tracks coronavirusrelated racist acts, over the past three months. Averaging  cases per day, these reports reveal a consistent, pervasive pattern of antiAsianAmerican hate throughout California, and they also indicate that the racist rhetoric coming from the highest office in the land is creating a dangerous environment for Asian Americans, said Cynthia Choi, coexecutive director of Chinese for Affirmative Action, at a webinar on Wednesday. Those incidents, including verbal harassment and physical assault, are happening at workplaces, in retail and online, permeating all aspects of daily life, said Choi. These two white ladies were moving toward me, but as they passed by me and saidGo back to China with your dirty diseases, a respondent in Verdugo City, California, was cited as saying in the report released by Stop AAPI Hate on Wednesday. Someone threw a glass bottle at my friend while she was putting her baby in the car and yelled, Go home, chink, said another respondent in San Francisco. Critics said the harassment against Asian Americans has been further stoked by US President Donald Trumps repeated use of the terms like Chinese virus and kung flu in his recent rallies and Twitter posts to scapegoat China for his handling of the pandemic. The connection between antiChina rhetoric and the antiAsian hate has been confirmed by the data weve collected through our reporting center, said Choi. Nationwide, the Stop AAPI Hate site has received more than , reports of discrimination against Asian Americans since the early stages of the coronavirus pandemic in March. Of those incidents, more than  were reported to involve the use of the terms China or Chinese. Our reports reveal that consistent parroting of Trumps languagehow animus is tied to beliefs about Chinese and the source of the spread of the coronavirus, and pervasive use of Orientalist stereotypes about Chinese diet and hygiene, Choi said. We condemn the racist, seditious and violent rhetoric coming from the president and political leaders at the very top, who racialize tragedies to score political points and distract from their own mishandling of the pandemic. Main themes Mae Ngai, professor of history at Columbia University, noted that during the pandemic, there were instances of harassment and some violence against Chinese in the United Kingdom but it didnt continue for long. Part of the reason that nativism in the UK and on the European continent didnt have the same kind of traction as it has in the US is the political leadership in those countries opposed racism and didnt encourage it as Trump and his Republican allies did in the US, said Ngai. In the United States, the president led the racist attacks against Chinese and China. This is no surprise to us since racism and nativism have been the main themes of his administration, and indeed his entire political career, she said. California Assembly Member David Chiu echoed her comments, saying theres also a pandemic of racism being perpetrated by the commanderinchief of the US. Choi also pointed out that Trumps words alone arent the problem, but an entire policy agenda thats built on punishing immigrants and protecting white supremacy. In addition to unrelenting attacks on those who are undocumented, these anti immigrant policies include bans and restrictions on asylumseekers, Chinese students, highskilled workers, green card holders and so many others, she said.