Diplomacy in time of virus cements ties
2020/7/3 6:53
President Xi Jinping meets with President of the European Council Charles Michel and President of the European Commission Ursula von der Leyen via video link in Beijing, on June , .  Presidents efforts further enhance Chinas relations with rest of the world The COVID pandemic may have pressed the pause button on interaction between countries, but Chinas diplomacy led by President Xi Jinping, in the form of phone calls, correspondence and videoconferences, has helped to further enhance the countrys relations with the rest of the world amid the pandemic, officials and experts said. The intensive interactions between Xi and other world leaders in the first half of this year have contributed to jointly working out ways to effectively respond to the public health crisis and offset the impact of the pandemic on the world economy, they said. Since the start of the outbreak, Xi has engaged with more than  foreign leaders and heads of international organizations through phone calls and meetings, and advanced international cooperation in fighting the novel coronavirus. On June , he met with the European Unions new leadershipEuropean Council President Charles Michel and European Commission President Ursula von der Leyenvia video link to strengthen ChinaEU cooperation. He also attended a series of virtual multilateral events, including the Extraordinary G Leaders Summit and the opening of the rd World Health Assembly, and hosted the Extraordinary ChinaAfrica Summit on Solidarity Against COVID via video link. In addition, Xi sent letters to foreign leaders to extend his sympathy to the people of epidemicaffected countries, express Chinas support to them for their efforts in curbing the virus and strengthen bilateral ties. Speaking at a news conference on the sidelines of the annual session of the National Peoples Congress, the nations top legislature, on May , State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi said that in all of Xis diplomatic engagements in what was called cloud diplomacy, in the form of phone calls, correspondence and video conferences, the president underscored Chinas unequivocal commitment to global solidarity and cooperation against COVID. More than  foreign leaders, plus heads of international and regional organizations and more than  political parties or organizations have expressed their sympathy over the outbreak and their support for Chinas efforts to curb the virus through phone calls, letters or making statements, the Foreign Ministry said. China has also provided aid in medical supplies and expertise to other countries while sharing information and antiepidemic experience with them. By the end of May, China had exported antiepidemic materials such as masks and protective clothing to over  countries and regions, the ministry said. ViceForeign Minister Ma Zhaoxu said at a news conference last month that Chinas relations with the majority of countries have been improved and strengthened amid the epidemic and its circle of friends has been expanded. Chinas cooperation with the international community in the fight against the virus has significantly enhanced its ties with other countries and promoted pragmatic cooperation with them, Ma said. Addressing the Extraordinary G Leaders Summit, Xi called on the international community to be resolute in fighting a global war against COVID, make a collective response for control and treatment at the international level, leverage and coordinate international macro policies to counteract the negative impact of the contagion and prevent the world economy from falling into recession. In a written message to the ChinaArab States Political Parties Dialogue Extraordinary Meeting held via video link last week, Syrian President Bashar alAssad, who is also the general secretary of the Baath Party in Syria, praised Chinas active efforts in upholding cooperation with the international community in the fight against the disease. He said that China has played a significant role in responding to the pandemic, and he expressed hope that China will play a bigger role in the field of international politics. Xi announced at the opening of the rd World Health Assembly that China will provide  billion over two years to help with COVID response and with economic and social development in affected countries. He said that a COVID vaccine developed in China, when available, will be made a global public good. While hosting the Extraordinary ChinaAfrica Summit on Solidarity Against COVID on June , Xi announced an array of measures to support African countries in curbing the epidemic and promoting socioeconomic development, including cancellation of the debt of relevant African countries in the form of interestfree government loans that are due to mature by the end of  within the framework of the Forum on ChinaAfrica Cooperation. Matteo Giovannini, a finance professional at the Industrial and Commercial Bank of China in Beijing and a member of the China Task Force at the Italian Ministry of Economic Development, said that Chinas decision represents an act of generosity toward countries facing a difficult time by voluntarily deciding to cancel part of the pending debt. China is showing real economic responsibility through actions that speak much louder than other nations words in the past, and by doing this it is demonstrating that the country is ready to assume a prominent role at a time when global leadership is more than needed, Giovannini said in an opinion piece published on the website of the China Global Television Network. Observers said that Chinas cloud diplomacy amid COVID has boosted international efforts in joint response to the unprecedented global public health crisis, and also injected confidence into the world economic recovery. Ruan Zongze, executive vicepresident of the China Institute of International Studies, said cloud diplomacy was developed at a time when the pandemic dramatically affected diplomatic activities due to travel restrictions, but through it, China has enhanced understanding and support with the rest of the world during such a trying time. ?