Top  worlds most valuable brands
2020/7/3 6:40
The worlds top  most valuable brands have seen their total value rise . percent to  trillion this year despite the impact of the COVID epidemic, according to the  BrandZ Top  Most Valuable Global Brands ranking by global communication services provider WPP and Kantar. A record  Chinese brands joined the list this year. Chinas ecommerce giant Alibaba took sixth on the list with . billion in brand valuation, up  percent yearonyear. Internet heavyweight Tencent came in seventh, with a brand value of . billion yuan. Amazon maintained its position as the worlds most valuable brand, with its value increasing  percent to . billion. Lets take a look at the worlds top  most valuable brands. No  MasterCard Brand value . billion A MasterCard logo is seen on a credit card.  No  McDonalds Brand value . billion Delivery couriers practice social distancing while waiting for orders at a McDonalds following the implementation of stricter social distancing and selfisolation rules to limit the spread of the coronavirus in Sydney, Australia on April , .  No  Facebook Brand value . billion The Facebook logo is displayed on a mobile phone.  No  Tencent Brand value . billion A Tencent sign is seen in Nanjing, East Chinas Jiangsu province, on Nov , .  No  Alibaba Brand value . billion The logo of Alibaba Group is seen during Alibaba Groups . Singles Day global shopping festival at the companys headquarters in Hangzhou, Zhejiang province on Nov , .  No  Visa Brand value . billion File photo of a Visa credit card.  No  Google Brand value . billion The Google logo is seen at an event in Paris on May , .  No  Microsoft Brand value . billion The Microsoft logo is seen in front of its office building in Shanghai on June , .  No  Apple Brand value . billion People wearing protective face masks are seen in an Apple store in Sydney, Australia on July , .  No  Amazon Brand value . billion An Amazon worker delivers packages in Denver, Colorado, US on April , . 