Onus on local decisionmakers to act promptly
2020/7/3 0:00
In Beijing, despite an apparent drop in daily infections, and the downgraded risk levels of more areas, there is no sign the municipal authorities are ready to lift the reinstated restrictions to contain the latest spike in locally transmitted COVID cases. Meanwhile, several states in the United States are toggling back their reopening and reimposing social distancing requirements as infections have rebounded. Elsewhere from Australia to Germany, India, Portugal and the United Kingdom, more and more countries have reportedly modified plans for reopening local economies and social life amid fresh COVID resurgences and concerns about its largescale comeback. Judging from conditions at home and abroad, there can be no underestimating the potential of the novel coronavirus to make a comeback, and there is no cause for being overly optimistic about our capacity for its containment. But the de facto freeze of socioeconomic activities adopted at the peak of the outbreak is obviously unsustainable. It was actually the unbearable financial cost of that enforced hibernation that has driven governments around the world to allow reopening. The continuously stern warning from the World Health Organizationthat the spread of the pandemic keeps accelerating globally, and the worst is yet to comemay sound more or less irrelevant to some countries that have accomplished general control over largescale local transmission. But as more and more countries and regions itch to return to normalcy, especially as crossborder travels resume, the fragility of the present success of individual countries and regions may become even more conspicuous. Accordingly, in step with a possible second wave, reimposed regional lockdowns may be inevitable. Although scientists worldwide are racing against time and each other trying to find effective therapeutics and vaccines, the only response that has proven effective so far is physical distancing. So the common dilemma facing decisionmakers around the world is to balance local needs for reopening and safety guarantees. Before proven therapeutics and vaccines become available, as the WHO observed, we can only stick to the basics and make full use of currently available tools. Social distancing is the essential strategy for the control of any infectious diseases, especially respiratory diseases, along with good hygiene habits such as handwashing and maskwearing, and screening, tracing and isolating. Just as the WHO said, all countries and communities that followed such basic protocol have achieved effective control over local infections. This is also the single most important lesson from this countrys own experience over the past months. Nationwide complete lockdowns cant be sustained for long. But decisive, timely, targeted responses can make a substantial difference in cutting chains of transmission. Whether this is achievable at proper levels, however, hinges ultimately on whether decisionmakers compare the pain of prompt actions that result in immediate, regional economic losses with the longerlasting pain on a larger scale that will come from delaying. ?