The beat goes on in Africa despite pandemic
2020/7/2 16:52
Kenyan music group Mbogi Genje. From left to right are Malaka Yuen aka Militan, Teddy Ochieng aka Guzman and Antony Odhiambo aka Smady. Photo provided to China Daily The coronavirus pandemic has had significant effects on the art market across the African continent among both established and emerging artists. Most artists in the music industry have now found themselves without commercial outlets for their work, since restrictions introduced by most African governments to curb the spread of the virus have left most music venues and art fairs closed. Mbogi Genje, a music group in Kenya made up of Antony Odhiambo aka Smady, Malaka Yuen aka Militan and Teddy Ochieng aka Guzman, is an emerging outfit that had just started taking over the Kenyan airwaves before the coronavirus pandemic struck. Last year was a good year for us, and things were looking up for us because we were on high demand to perform in live shows and during events.But with the coronavirus, we have had to cancel many shows which we depend on to make a living, Smady said. For example, a concert like NaiFest is a good platform for us to expand our fanbase and meet other artists, including international ones, but it was cancelled. Among its measures to help fight the virus, Kenyas government created a fund to alleviate the strain of the pandemic on the countrys artists. Through the Ministry of Sports, Culture and Heritage, the government announced it will avail more than , from its Sports Fund to artists, actors and musicians during the pandemic so they may continue to entertain through TV, radio and the internet. However, most artists feel left out and have not benefitted from the fund. We heard the announcement about the money that was supposed to be given to artists, but we have not received even a cent. Since the pandemic started, we have been on our own and surviving through our own means, Guzman said. This pandemic might be here for longer and as artists, we cannot depend on government aid which might not arrive in the long run. That is why we have to develop our own means of surviving during the pandemic, he added. According to Smady, the group is hopeful it will survive the pandemic. They have been recording their songs and sharing them through online platforms and other channels despite the fact they cannot hold concerts. We have managed to continue recording and shooting videos for our music but we ensure we maintain social distancing, we wear masks and we sanitize as frequently as possible. We have also collaborated with people in our community and donated masks and sanitizers because our fans also look up to us, Smady said. Militan said as artists they have no option but brave the virus, because it has affected almost every aspect of life  not just musicians alone. Our art is interactive in nature because we perform at gatherings and our fans always want to interact with us. As artists, we want to encourage people not to give up and to maintain hard work, especially during these times. We should always maintain a positive attitude and things will work out for the better, Militan said. Despite the challenges, the group believes tough times will to pass. Before that happens, they have to continue working towards developing their music. I believe everybody can make it and I would like to encourage upcoming artists who have been hit hardest by the pandemic not to give up. Everything in life takes sacrifice, and this is a period when we are all called to sacrifice to beat the pandemic, Militan said.