Top brands boost value in spite of pandemic
2020/7/2 15:58
Safety guidelines for customers remain posted outside a shuttered bar along Sunset Boulevard amid the COVID pandemic in Los Angeles, California, on June , .  LOS ANGELES  In the face of an alarming spike in COVID cases in California, the fastapproaching Independence Day holiday weekend has become a crucial test for citizens ability to guard themselves against the deadly virus. California, the most populous state in the United States, reported , new cases on Wednesday, raising the total confirmed cases to ,, and  new COVIDrelated deaths, among the states highest daily counts, taking the death toll since the start of the pandemic to ,, according to the California Department of Public Health. Over the past week, California has seen over , new cases per day for the third time in eight days. Los Angeles County soared past , infections to , with , deaths to date. The soaring in patient counts has caused concern that new cases will overwhelm the local healthcare systems. California is seeing the virus spreading at alarming rates in many parts of the state, and we are taking immediate action to slow the spread of the virus in those areas, said Governor Gavin Newsom in a statement Wednesday. Newsom has announced some stricter restrictions amid the spike of new cases and hospitalizations, ordering restaurants, wineries, movie theaters, family entertainment centers, zoos, museums and cardrooms in Los Angeles and other  counties to close indoor operations for a minimum of three weeks. Thanks to its swift moves, California had been successful in curbing the spread of COVID and had entered phased reopening of its businesses after two months of lockdown. However, surprise inspections of restaurants and bars in the Los Angeles area revealed that safety protocols had repeatedly been breached, particularly amongst young people who felt less at risk from a virus that hits the elderly the hardest, resulting in more infections among young adults. Were still getting some very sick older patients, but were also seeing more young people, Dr. Otto Yang, a professor of medicine and the associate chief of infectious diseases at the David Geffen School of Medicine at University of California, Los Angeles UCLA, told the Los Angeles Times. In all, Los Angeles County Health Department officials attributed the spike to unsafe practices in socializing at reopened businesses, and unprotected private and public gatherings. This shouldnt surprise anybody watching  as you reopen the economy ... youre going to see people mixing that were not mixing in the past, said Newsom. Particularly alarmed by a positive case rate in Imperial County that has shot up to  percent and is filling up their hospitals  compared with Los Angeless rate of . percen, the governor threatened to reinstate the stayathome order in their county if local officials could not curb the spread. The framework for us is this If youre not going to stay home, and youre not going to wear masks in public, we have to enforce, and we will, he said. Health officials warned that a failure to wear masks and unsafe mixing with people from other households this holiday weekend could be an unmitigated disaster. Traditionally, the Fourth of July has been such a time for large gatherings and beach going. If those same practices occurred, we could be back with even a further spike upon our spike that were having now, Dr. Robert KimFarley, medical epidemiologist and infectious diseases expert at the UCLA Fielding School of Public Health told the Los Angeles Times. Director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases Dr. Anthony Fauci warned on Tuesday that the US COVID strategy is going in the wrong direction, and new cases nationwide could climb to , a day if American behaviors do not change.