Center studies philanthropic impact of China
2020/7/2 15:41
Honeywell manufacturing workers create protective face masks on an assembly line during President Donald Trumps visit to a facility making masks for the coronavirus disease COVID outbreak in Phoenix, Arizona, US, May , .  WASHINGTON  Economic activity in the US manufacturing sector rebounded in June, after three months of contraction amid mounting COVID fallout, the Institute for Supply Management ISM reported Wednesday. The Purchasing Managers Index PMI stood at . percent in June, up . percentage points from the May reading. Any reading below  percent indicates the manufacturing sector is generally contracting. As predicted, the growth cycle has returned after three straight months of COVID disruptions, Timothy Fiore, chair of the ISMs manufacturing business survey committee, said in a statement. Among the six biggest industry sectors, food, beverage  tobacco products remains the best performing industry sector, and computer  electronic products, and chemical products returned to respectable growth, Fiore said. Transportation equipment and fabricated metal products continue to contract, but at much softer levels, according to the statement. Todays report is clearly positive news for the factory sector, but the jump may just reflect the relief about reopening rather than signal a full rebound for a sector that still faces major headwinds, Tim Quinlan and Sarah House, economists at Wells Fargo Securities, wrote in an analysis. Orders surged from a low base and while factories arent firing people, theyre not yet hiring either, they noted. According to the minutes of the Federal Reserves June policy meeting released Wednesday, Fed officials discussed the risks of additional waves of COVID outbreaks on the US economy as states continued reopening efforts. A number of participants judged that there was a substantial likelihood of additional waves of outbreaks, which, in some scenarios, could result in further economic disruptions and possibly a protracted period of reduced economic activity, said the minutes of the Feds meeting held on June .