Chinese among citizens of  nations in the frame for travel to Europe
2020/7/2 6:40
Chinese financial media outlet China Business Network released its  ranking of Chinese cities based on their business attractiveness in May, with Chengdu topping the list of new firsttier cities, followed by Chongqing, Hangzhou, Wuhan and Xian. The  cities, comprised of an overwhelming number of southern Chinese metropolises, were evaluated on five dimensions C concentration of commercial resources, the city as a hub, urban residential activity, lifestyle diversity and future potential. Chengdu, with its GDP surging . percent yearonyear to . trillion yuan in , has won the first spot for six consecutive years since . In recent years, the city sees an increasing number of CBDs, offline stores, transportation infrastructure facilities and entertainment spots. Among the  Chinese cities surveyed, traditional firsttier cities remain unchanged, including Beijing, Shanghai, Guangzhou and Shenzhen, but the list of new firsttier cities witnessed two newcomers, Hefei in Anhui province and Foshan in Guangdong province. However, Kunming in Yunnan province and Ningbo in Zhejiang province were overtaken, falling into the second tier. Lets see the top  new firsttier cities in China. No  Changsha People wearing face masks read at Lezhi bookshop in Tianxin District of Changsha, Central Chinas Hunan province, on Feb , .  No  Zhengzhou Couples pose for wedding photos in a field of pink grass at Longhu wetland park in Zhengzhou, Central Chinas Henan province, on Oct , .? No  Nanjing People visit the imperial Xiaoling Mausoleum, the burial site of the Ming Dynastys  founding emperor Zhu Yuanzhang, in Nanjing, capital of East Chinas Jiangsu province, on Nov , .? No  Suzhou Visitors view lotus flowers at the Humble Administrators Garden in Suzhou, East Chinas Jiangsu province, on June , .? No  Tianjin A man flies a kite in the Xiqing district of Tianjin on April , .? No  Xian A view of a commercial street near the Giant Wild Goose Pagoda scenic spot in Xian, Northwest Chinas Shaanxi province on April , .? No  Wuhan The lighted Yellow Crane Tower, or Huanghelou, a landmark in Wuhan, Central Chinas Hubei province on April , .? No  Hangzhou People visit intangible cultural heritage museums at Pingyao ancient street in Hangzhou, capital of East Chinas Zhejiang province, on June , .? No  Chongqing A view of Southwest Chinas Chongqing on May , .? No  Chengdu People shop at a night market in Chengdu, Southwest Chinas Sichuan province, on June , .?