Countries alerted to coronavirus resurgence amid easing lockdowns
2020/7/1 16:05
? People walk past the historic Frolic Room bar which is shuttered along Hollywood Boulevard amid the COVID pandemic in Los Angeles, California,?on June , .  BEIJING  Countries are alerted to a resurgence of the novel coronavirus pandemic while gradually easing lockdowns and phasing in economic recovery. Anthony Fauci, the US governments top infectiousdiseases expert, said on Tuesday the United States is not in total control of the COVID pandemic, giving a dire warning that infection cases could go up to , per day. We are now having plus thousand new cases a day. I would not be surprised if we go up to , a day if this does not turn around, Fauci, director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, told senators at a hearing held by the Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee. His comments came as the US daily number of reported new cases is outpacing that of April, bringing the total tally to more than . million, with over , fatalities as of Tuesday afternoon, showed data from Johns Hopkins University. Fauci warned that some states are skipping over checkpoints in the federal reopening guidelines and that this is leading to new hotspots in states like Texas, Florida and Arizona. The outbreaks in various parts of the country put the entire country at risk and clearly we dont have this under control, Fauci added. In the United States, many states have either paused or partially reversed their staged reopenings over the resurgence of COVID cases nationwide, while mandating maskwearing in public places. Governor Ron DeSantis of southeastern state Florida on Friday ordered to close bars immediately as a record , new COVID cases were reported in a single day. The previous record of , was set just two days before. It is increasingly clear that many governors reopened their states too quickly, reigniting the virus and hurting their economies, Mark Zandi, chief economist of Moodys Analytics, wrote Monday in an analysis, citing the states of Arizona, California, Florida and Texas. On Tuesday, Federal Reserve Chairman Jerome Powell warned that a second outbreak of the coronavirus could force governments and people to withdraw again from economic activity. In Britain, Prime Minister Boris Johnson on Tuesday announced a billionpound about . billion plan to fuel economic recovery, saying the government is wholly committed not just to defeating coronavirus, but to using this crisis finally to tackle this countrys great unresolved challenges of the last three decades. An earlier planned easing of lockdown restrictions from July  is expected to bring the hardhit tourism industry to a rebound, with a phased resumption of operation. Out of the over  sites that English Heritage cares for, only six sites are currently open. On July ,  sites are set to be open and a similar amount from Aug , with some sites remaining closed possibly until next year. In the last few weeks, businesses in Turkey are wary of a second wave of coronavirus contagion following the government decision to relax lockdown restrictions since June . In the last  days, Turkey recorded between , and , new daily cases, compared with between  and  daily infections during the strict lockdown period. The economy cannot survive another round of business shutdowns. We are facing this massive threat because people are not taking necessary precautions, Machinery Exporters Association Chairman Adnan Dalgakiran said during a television interview, referring to citizens who are reluctant to wear masks and disrespect distancing rules. After revising down its forecast for the global output last week, the International Monetary Fund IMF on Tuesday also revised down its forecast for the Asian economy amid the mounting COVID fallout, projecting a .percent contraction in  and warning of clouds on the horizon. Projections for  have been revised down for most of the countries in the Asian region due to weaker global conditions and more protracted containment measures in several emerging economies, Chang Yong Rhee, director of the IMFs Asia and Pacific Department, wrote in a blog post. The projection came as COVID continued to spread in the AsiaPacific region while the World Health Organization WHO warned that the worst was yet to come in the pandemic as global cases and death tolls climbed. In Canada, the government on Tuesday extended the current ban on international travellers until July , according to the Canada Border Services Agency CBSA. The Government of Canada remains committed to protecting the health and safety of Canadians and reducing the spread of COVID in Canada, said the CBSA in a news release. Last week, Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau dismissed a proposal to relax the ban on international travellers, saying that moving too quickly could spark a second wave of the coronavirus in Canada.