Solidarity sows a bright future
2020/7/1 8:28
LI MINCHINA DAILY ChinaNepal friendship has been tested by difficult times before and each time it has emerged stronger, as it will after the pandemic This year marks the th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between China and Nepal. The two countries are geographically connected through the towering Himalayas with everlasting friendship. Over the past  years, China and Nepal have forged ahead with evergrowing political mutual trust, fruitful achievements under the framework of the Belt and Road Initiative and increasingly enhanced peopletopeople exchanges. The two sides have been supporting each other on issues involving their respective core interests, becoming models of cooperation based on equality and friendship for mutual benefits between countries. During Chinese President Xi Jinpings state visit to Nepal on Oct  and  last year, the two countries agreed to a strategic partnership of cooperation featuring everlasting friendship for development and prosperity. Since that historic visit, relations between the two countries have entered a new era and embraced new opportunities for development. Looking back on the history of ChinaNepal relations, the two sides have continually strengthened their political mutual trust and friendship. The Nepalese government and people made donations proactively to support China when Wenchuan in Southwest Chinas Sichuan province was hit by a devastating earthquake in . After the earthquake in Nepal in , the Chinese government and people also implemented largescale rescue operations in the shortest possible time. The life of the Nepalese people became even harder due to the blockade of the main border crossings between Nepal and India shortly after the earthquake, for which China sent supplies including muchneeded oil and gas to Nepal despite the difficult conditions and frequent secondary disasters and supported the latter in reconstruction. Just as fire can test how genuine gold is, the genuineness of the friendship between China and Nepal has been proved by such testing times. After the outbreak of the novel coronavirus, China and Nepal have worked together to form a ChinaNepal community with a shared future in the antipandemic battle. During the period when the pandemic situation was the severest in China, Nepalese leaders including President Bidya Devi Bhandari and Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli sent letters to their Chinese counterparts expressing their firm support for Chinas antipandemic measures. Civil organizations and students in Nepal also sent videos, poems and paintings created by them to express their confidence in China winning its battle against the virus. Although most of Nepals antipandemic supplies are imported, as the countrys production capacity is limited, the Nepalese government still donated , medical masks to China in the initial period of the pandemic outbreak. While the pandemic has now been effectively controlled in China, the situation in Nepal has become increasingly severe with rising confirmed cases and a great insufficiency of antipandemic supplies. Nepal also lacks medical treatment capabilities and experience to fight against COVID. As an ancient Chinese poem goes, Fear not the want of armor, for mine is also yours to wear. On April , President Xi stressed in a phone conversation with President Bhandari that China has been following the pandemic situation in Nepal and will continue to provide firm support for Nepal in its fight against the pandemic. Amid the great pressure of preventing domestic reemergence and curbing imported cases as well as the shortage of medical resources, China has proactively implemented the consensus reached by leaders of the two countries as various groups have provided assistance to Nepal through multiple channels and approaches. The Chinese government and the Chinese Peoples Liberation Army assisted Nepal with several batches of the most urgently needed antipandemic supplies including test kits, masks, protective suits and forehead thermometers, which have played an important role in supporting antipandemic efforts on the frontline in Nepal. Domestic regions including Sichuan and Yunnan provinces and Tibet autonomous region, as well as social welfare organizations, Chinesefunded enterprises in Nepal and overseas Chinese have also provided support as their capacities allow. The Chinese embassy in Nepal has assisted in holding four ChinaNepal videoconferences for exchanges between health experts of the two countries on combating the pandemic. The experts had full and indepth conversations on experience and practices in pandemic prevention and control as well as clinical treatment. China has also coordinated domestic and international resources to facilitate Nepal on purchasing medical supplies in China. With measures for pandemic prevention and control in place, China has resumed the freight transport at the ChinaNepal border port to ensure antipandemic and daily supplies for Nepal. The year is the starting year for the launch of the proposals President Xi made during his state visit to Nepal. The two countries have implemented the key consensus reached by leaders of both sides and connected the Belt and Road Initiative with Nepals policy of developing itself from a landlocked country to a landlinked country. ChinaNepal cooperation in promoting interconnectivity and infrastructure has seen fruitful achievements and made substantial progress. The TransHimalayan MultiDimensional Connectivity Network is gradually taking shape and the construction of a community of shared future between China and Nepal in the new era has seen new progress. Although the sudden outbreak of the novel coronavirus has inevitably affected ChinaNepal exchanges and cooperation in various fields, it will not exert fundamental impacts on longterm cooperation between China and Nepal. The solidarity demonstrated by the two countries in their antipandemic efforts will inject new impetus into the development of ChinaNepal relations. While ensuring pandemic prevention and control, China is willing to work with Nepal to steadily promote the resumption of production in the latter, improve connectivity, and boost bilateral economic and trade cooperation and peopletopeople exchanges. China will create a new landscape in the changing situation and turn impacts of the pandemic into opportunities for development by exploring new avenues for the growth of ChinaNepal cooperation in public health and online communication and shopping to benefit the people of both countries. The pandemic will end while ChinaNepal friendship will last. Both sides will be able to jointly push the strategic partnership of cooperation featuring everlasting friendship for development and prosperity to a new height. The author is the Chinese ambassador to Nepal. The author contributed this article to China Watch, a think tank powered by China Daily. The views do not necessarily reflect those of China Daily. ?