Tokyo reports over , new COVID cases, with record high of , nationwide
2021/8/20 6:40
Corgis are seen competing in a fun contest in North Chinas Tianjin, on Aug .  A couple has their marriage registered at a civil affairs bureau in Shanghai, on Aug , which is also the day of the Qixi Festival, often known as Chinese Valentines Day.  Children learn speedskating techniques at a park in Huaian, Jiangsu province, on Aug . Many children choose to build up their bodies and minds by doing sports during the summer vacation, which runs through the end of August. ZHOU CHANGGUOFOR CHINA DAILY People with face masks worship at a temple, as Taiwan has seen a reduction of local infections and deaths after weeks of combating a serious outbreak, in Taipei, Taiwan, on Aug , .  Fishing boats set out from Yangjiang, Guangdong province, after a threeandahalf month fishing moratorium in the South China Sea ended on Aug . A ceremony to mark the start of the fishing season was held by the Yangjiang city government and the provincial Department of Agriculture and Rural Affairs. XIAO XIONGFOR CHINA DAILY An aerial view of the sea of flowers near Fuxian Lake in Yuxi city, Southwest Chinas Yunnan province, Aug , .  A panda statue is seen with a mask on its face, as a reminder that the COVID pandemic is not over, in Chengdu, Southwest Chinas Sichuan province, on Aug .  A man collects lotus leaves and seedpods for people who place orders online at West Lake in Hangzhou, Zhejiang province, on Aug . Designated personnel are doing the harvesting work to prevent people from congregating in the area during the COVID pandemic. CHEN ZHONGQIUFOR CHINA DAILY A family of herders catches one of the sheep to trade for yaks with other herders in Zoige, Sichuan province, on Aug . After a family trades  sheep for  yaks with herders who operate on a larger grassland area, the meadow the family usually uses for herding livestock will face lighter grazing, as yaks, unlike sheep, normally leave the final few centimeters of grass uneaten. The province has been guiding herders to adjust their livestock to ease the burden on meadows. JIANG HONGJINGXINHUA Bailuzhou Water Conservancy Scenic Area in Badu town, Ningde, East Chinas Fujian province, integrates hydraulic engineering with tourism, with its dams featuring the unique shape of fish scales, creating intricate and eyepopping scenes from a distance. Photo by Liu Minggefor chinadaily.com.cn