Party forges ahead by putting people first
2020/7/1 8:14
Workers unclog a drain in Yichang, Hubei province, after the city was hit by a heavy rain on Saturday. LIU SHUSONGFOR CHINA DAILY Close bonds with the public provide crucial connection Boasting a membership of more than  million and governing the worlds most populous country, the Communist Party of China is celebrating its th birthday on Wednesday. Over the past seven decades, the CPC has transformed China from a povertystricken and backward country into the secondlargest economy globally. The biggest political party in the world is also leading the country in eliminating absolute poverty nationwide and building China into a moderately prosperous society in all respects by the time the CPC marks its centenary next year. According to observers, the secret of the Partys governance success is that it adopts a peoplecentered philosophy internally and continues to improve wellbeing. Externally, it upholds peaceful development and winwin cooperation and remains committed to advancing the building of a community with a shared future for mankind. Liu Haitao, a professor at the National Academy of Governance specializing in scientific socialism, said the CPC has represented the fundamental interests of the Chinese people since it was founded in , and has secured broad social support for its longterm governance. The Party has continued such governance of the country through its close bonds with the public, Liu said. These connections enable it to implement its policies, decisions and development strategies to promote national progress and improve peoples livelihoods. Serving the people wholeheartedly is the fundamental purpose of the CPC, as laid down in the Party Constitution and upheld by generations of its leadership. Breakfast is distributed on Monday to floodhit villagers in Mianning county, Sichuan province. The Communist Party of China has always made serving the people its priority. LI JIEYIXINHUA Strong leadership Xi Jinping, general secretary of the CPC Central Committee, has made people a keyword in his work since becoming the top Party chief in . On a number of occasions he has said, The peoples desire for a better life is the goal we strive to realize. When the coronavirus outbreak hit the country this year, Xi acted as commanderinchief in the war against the contagion, urging officials to put people first and give top priority to the publics health and lives. Under the strong leadership of the CPC Central Committee with Xi at its core, China has put in place an efficient system to coordinate pandemic control and socioeconomic development. The central authorities exercise overall command. Local jurisdictions and all sectors follow the leadership and instructions of the central authorities, perform their respective duties and cooperate with each other. A white paper on Chinas fight against COVID, released by the State Council Information Office on June , said this highly efficient system has made it possible for China to win its allout peoples war against the virus. On May , Xi said the fundamental goal for the Party to unite and lead the people in revolution, development and reform is to ensure they have a better life, adding that the CPC will never waver in pursuing such a goal. He made the comments at the annual session of the National Peoples Congress, the nations top legislature, during deliberations with deputies from Inner Mongolia autonomous region. Faced with the spread of COVID, the Party, from the start, stated clearly that top priority should be given to peoples lives and health. What is people first? Xi asked in discussions with the deputies, before answering the question. So many people worked together to save a single patient. This, in essence, embodies doing whatever it takes to save lives, he said, adding, We are willing to protect peoples lives and health at all costs. Xi was referring to a story told by Luo Jie, a doctor from Hubei province, which has been severely affected by COVID. Luo told reporters how medical workers at his hospital spent  days saving an yearold infected with the disease. About  of them took care of the patient. During the pandemic, the most sophisticated medical resources have been used worldwide to treat elderly patients, the group most at risk from COVID. In China, however, all patients have received equal treatment, irrespective of their age or financial status. In Hubei alone, more than , patients age  or older have recovered from the disease. In the provincial capital Wuhan, seven centenarians have been cured. Xi has said on various occasions that the strong leadership of the CPC Central Committee, the advantages of socialism with Chinese characteristics and the countrys strong mobilization capabilities would see China win the fight against the pandemic and maintain momentum for socioeconomic development. Robert Lawrence Kuhn, a public intellectual and international corporate strategist, said he took it seriously when the Standing Committee of the Political Bureau of the CPC Central Committee, Chinas highest authority, described the pandemic as a major test of Chinas system and capacity for governance. In an opinion piece published on the China Global Television Network website, Kuhn said he could not recall an event of similar significance in the plus years he has been observing China. He said the wholeofgovernment, wholeofsociety approach adopted by the CPC in responding to the unprecedented public health crisis operates efficiently, because it relates to how the Party system works. Kuhn said such commitment and mobilization have been used by the Party to win the battle against poverty since around . These efforts have involved lifting  million people out of absolute poverty and coordinating Party leadership and organizations at central government and five levels of local governmentprovincial, municipal, county, township and village. He added that there are striking structural similarities between Chinas war on the coronavirus and its fight against poverty. The CPC has made it clear to the world that it is a political party that not only strives to seek happiness for the Chinese people, but also aims to advance humanity. Speaking at the CPC in Dialogue with World Political Parties HighLevel Meeting, held in Beijing in , Xi said the Party has been striving to improve Chinese peoples wellbeing, pursue national rejuvenation and seek peace and development for mankind. As a result, when COVID spread globally, the Party called on the international community to respond to the contagion, advance cooperation in the fight against the pandemic, and build a global community of health for all. According to the Foreign Ministry, more than  overseas leaders, plus heads of international and regional organizations, and more than  political parties or organizations have expressed sympathy over the outbreak and voiced their support for Chinas efforts to curb the virus. The country has provided medical supplies and expertise to other nations while sharing information and antiepidemic experiences with them. By the end of May, China had exported equipment, including face masks and protective clothing, to more than  countries and regions, the ministry said. In April, the CPC and more than  political parties from plus countries issued an open letter concerning international cooperation in the fight against COVID. The letter urged all countries to put peoples lives and health above everything else and to take resolute and forceful measures to contain the virus. A nucleic acid test is performed by a Chinese doctor in Baghdad, Iraq, in April. XINHUA To promote international teamwork, Xi announced at the opening of the rd World Health Assembly in May that China would provide  billion over two years to help with the response to COVID and with economic and social development in countries affected by the pandemic. He said COVID vaccine development in China would, when available, be made a global public good. During intensive interactions with foreign leaders through videoconferences, phone calls and correspondence in recent months, Xi stressed that China upholds the vision of a community with a shared future for mankind in the fight against COVID. He called on countries to work together to prevail against the disease, reduce fallout from the pandemic, and contribute to the stability of global industrial and supply chains and the recovery of the world economy. Moroccan Prime Minister Saad Eddine ElOthmani, who is also general secretary of the Islamist Justice and Development Party, said that faced with the challenges of COVID, political parties in Arab states want to develop exchanges and cooperation with the CPC relating to antiepidemic experiences. In a video message sent to the ChinaArab States Political Parties Dialogue Extraordinary Meeting last week, the Moroccan leader said he greatly appreciates China attaching importance to SouthSouth cooperation, particularly with Arab countries. Faced with a complicated international landscape, China is striving to tackle the substantial threats posed by unilateralism, protectionism, and especially the global economic recession resulting from COVID. The CPC has a number of responsibilities, including forestalling and defusing major risks, preventing and treating pollution, and poverty alleviation. Police evacuate residents in Chongqing last month.?CHEN XINGYUFOR CHINA DAILY Selfreform efforts The CPC is committed to building itself into a vibrant Marxist governing party that keeps abreast of the times, enjoys the peoples wholehearted support and has the courage to reform and be able to withstand all challenges. Noting some negative factors, dangers and challenges ahead, Xi has said the Partys selfreform faces arduous and longterm tasks, and no thoughts of pausing or resting should be entertained. Problems and obstacles that could shake the Partys foundations must be eradicated through selfreform, and members should listen to the people and voluntarily accept public oversight, he said at a group study session of the Political Bureau of the CPC Central Committee in June last year. Khun, the corporate strategist, said Chinas readiness to change and improve is a critical part of its governance system. When I discuss the primary reasons for Chinas remarkable development over the past four decades, I always include the Partys willingness, albeit out of necessity, to admit and correct errors, he said. In October, the fourth plenary session of the th CPC Central Committee adopted a landmark decision, urging the Party to uphold and improve the system of socialism with Chinese characteristics and advance the modernization of Chinas system and capacity for governance. Salah Adly, general secretary of the Egyptian Communist Party, said the CPC has made a breakthrough in promoting Chinas industrialization and opening up to the world, while managing to overcome all difficulties and challenges in making progress and development. Chinese medical experts join efforts to contain COVID in Brazzaville, Republic of Congo, last month. XINHUA A Chinese doctor gives acupuncture treatment in Prague, Czech Republic, during a visit in November to promote traditional Chinese medicine through the Belt and Road Initiative. XINHUA A birdseye view of the Port of Piraeus in Greece, which has been helped to develop by the Belt and Road Initiative.?HU LUXINHUA ?