Chinas first COVID mRNA vaccine approved for clinical trials
2020/6/30 16:44
A mother wearing a mask to avoid the spread of the coronavirus disease COVID checks a document as her children wait for her at Gimpo international airport in Seoul, South Korea, May , .  SEOUL  South Korea has the worlds lowest birth rate, according to a United Nations report released on Tuesday, as women in Asias fourthlargest economy struggle to achieve a balance between work and other life demands. The annual report by the UN Population Fund UNFPA found the fertility rate per woman in South Korea was only ., the lowest among  countries surveyed. Even as women have gained equality in access to education and work, decisions on having more children are constrained by their second shift in taking care of children and managing households, said Won Doyeon, chief of the UNFPAs Seoul office, in an email interview with Reuters. Reversing the decline in fertility will require wider institutional reform consisting of policies to empower women, as well as the greater involvement and support of men, he said. The UN report, which looked at practices that harm women and girls and undermine equality, featured a group of South Korean female activists who fought to curb a deeprooted preference for son in the s. In , . boys were born in the country for every  girls, but the ratio has dropped to ., around a natural level, it said. However, women in the country still face more domestic responsibilities, a glass ceiling at workplaces and new forms of genderbased violence including online sexual abuse, the report said. Crimes involving dating violence and spy cams have led thousands of women in South Korea to protest in recent years, calling for stricter penalties and enforcement of laws. A strong civil society and womens groups are critical to addressing the emerging forms of violence, Won said. Other countries with a low birth rate included Bosnia and Herzegovina and Singapore at ., and Cyprus, Greece, Italy and Portugal at .. Reuters