Wuhans Zhongnan Hospital ranks nd in COVID research
2020/6/30 13:44
A man looks at his phone as he walks in Times Square, wearing a mask during the coronavirus disease COVID outbreak, in New York City, the US.  Many leaders in the United States, along with the directors of the private Federal Reserve Bank, argue giving large New York banks a bailout of  trillion will not only save the banks but also revive the US economy. Whats wrong with this thinking? A little over  years ago, a Western economist persuasively wrote that giving handouts to elites at the top of the food chain in the form of new money creation will always fail to work its way down to benefit consumers  who are the ones that drive the economy. It was in  that FrenchIrish merchant banker Richard Cantillon explained in a groundbreaking essay it takes time for newly created money bestowed upon wealthy elites at the top of the food chain to make its way down to the average family or consumer. At each stage  going from elite bankers to the largest corporations, to the white collar workers, and all the way down to the blue collar worker and ultimately to the governmentsupported underclass  the distribution of money takes time. By the time it reaches the bottom rung, inflation will have eaten away much of the value of any new money originally created. Referred to today as The Cantillon Effect, this concept explains why it has been so futile for a private central bank like the Federal Reserve to print hundreds of trillions of new US dollars over the past  years while claiming this largesse will make its way to the average US consumer. How does this make the average American feel? I am reminded of a brief moment of total emotional breakdown I experienced early in my own professional career, which might shed some light on what it feels like to be an American today. This happened on a warm summers day on the outskirts of Cambridge, Massachusetts. I was a junior officer working at the Harvard Business School and had been invited along with other staff members of the administration to go to the deans country farmhouse. Out of some  people attending, I was the only person who wasnt white. And here is where it gets strange. As we began to eat lunch, the dean asked all of us to sit in a circle so we could talk about how the year went for all of us and what we had learned. I dont know why, but I was the first person he asked to speak. And suddenly I froze. Many of the others in the room were close associates with whom I had worked during the past year, but somehow I could not speak. I was known for being garrulous and outspoken. But as I look back on that event today, I cant help but feel my inability to say a word was linked to the mismatch between my humble upbringing in a small but adequate house in southern California  one that stood literally four doors down from the railroad tracks  and this wellappointed cabin of a wealthy New Englander. It seems I had temporarily been locked into the socioeconomic divide that stood between my upbringing and the elite and unfamiliar surroundings in which I found myself. Never mind that I had earned an MBA from Harvard. At this moment, I was overcome by the gap between rich and poora gap made even worse today, I might add, by an unemployment rate of  percent if calculated with the unemployment formula of earlier decades. And so today as I see the many Americans who find themselves in a shutdown economy  it strikes me there is an underreported inability of the rich in America to know what the middle and working classes are experiencing today, just like my dean had been at a complete loss at seeing me unable to speak. There is a wide gulf between the lives of the wealthy and the rest of US society today, which could be perhaps more aptly described by the word incommensurability. The term was coined by postcolonial writer Gayatri Spivak, who wrote powerfully about the inability of colonizers from England to understand the colonized people of India. So at a time when the private Federal Reserve Bank and its elite backers continue to print trillions and trillions to give back to themselves through purchase of toxic bonds and mortgages from those same banks, we would all do well to remember what Richard Cantillon once taught us about the value of newly created money, and what Spivak implores us to remember about the inability of the rich to understand the plight of those who arent. And while megabank executives are paying themselves hundreds of millions of dollars in bonuses, the US government was only able to muster a onetime , handout to help the average taxpayer survive in this brokendown economy. We still havent learned the lesson taught to us by Richard Cantillon. We remain colonized. Gregory K. Tanaka is a foreign correspondent, an anthropologist and the author of Systemic Collapse and Renewal. The opinions expressed here are those of the writer and do not represent the views of China Daily and China Daily website.