Beijing keeps gaokao dates as scheduled
2020/6/30 0:00
Around , students in Beijing will go back to campus to sit for their college entrance examinations next week with strict coronavirus prevention measures in place, a senior official announced on Monday. Beijing Municipal Education Commission spokesman Li Yi told a news conference on Monday that the timetable for the examsknown as the gaokaoin Beijing will stay unchanged, occurring from July  to  as scheduled. All the students will be required to wear masks the whole time during the examination, he said. All the staff for the exams will get nucleic acid tests, but students are not required to do so in order to reduce crossinfection risks. According to the commission, , students in their final year of senior high school will participate in the exam at , examination rooms in  schools. Each room will hold no more than  students in order to reduce density, and spare rooms are prepared for emergency use. For students who are in centralized quarantine for medical observation, they will take the exams alone in rooms. Local governments will provide private transportation for those students to prevent infection. Beijing reported seven new local cases on Sunday, half the number of new cases that were reported on Saturday. The total confirmed patients reported in Beijing rose to  since the first newly confirmed case was reported on June , according to the Beijing Center for Disease Control and Prevention. Pang Xinghuo, deputy head of the center, said on Monday that people who have completed days of centralized quarantine and received negative nucleic acid testing results should undergo another  days of centralized quarantine for medical observation before returning to their communities. According to Pang,  cases reported on Friday and Saturday were all confirmed at the hotels designated for centralized quarantine in Fengtai district. Most of them are workers at the meattrading hall at Xinfadi wholesale market. Based on analysis of the cases reported recently, most of them are among the people who were isolated in the designated quarantine hotels, and very few cases were found during the mass testing screening, Wu Zunyou, chief epidemiologist at the Chinese Center for Disease Control and Prevention, was quoted by China News Service. He said he expected that Beijing will see no new cases in about one week. A local COVID patient surnamed He, , was discharged from Beijing Ditan Hospital on Monday morning, the first recovered case among the new cluster of novel coronavirus infections in Beijing. According to a report by Beijing Daily, the patient went to Xinfadi market on June  and started feeling weak and began experiencing a headache on June . He went to the hospital on June  when his body temperature rose to  C and was confirmed as a COVID case on the same day. He is a bus driver for the Beijing Capital International Airport but was on leave because airport shuttle buses have been suspended. The patients body temperature returned to normal on June  and his clinical symptoms, imaging and laboratory indicators gradually improved, said doctor Xu Yanli, adding that Hes nucleic acid test results on June  and  were both negative. All COVID patients have been receiving treatment at Beijing Ditan. A total of  medics from other Beijing hospitals have come to the hospital to help treat the patients. dujuanchinadaily.com.cn A patient surnamed He is discharged from Beijing Ditan Hospital on Monday. He is the first recovered case among the new cluster of novel coronavirus infections in the capital. YAN TONGFOR CHINA DAILY