MLS is Back Tournament draw
2020/6/29 11:34
Here are some of the most striking images taken from around the world over the past week. A Russian serviceman marches during the Victory Day Parade in Red Square in Moscow, June , . The parade, marking the th anniversary of the victory over Nazi Germany in World War II, was scheduled for May  but was postponed due to the outbreak of COVID.  A waitress wearing a protective mask and gloves amid the COVID outbreak cleans glasses at Setouchi Lemon Shokudo in Tokyo, June , .  A priest wearing personal protective equipment prays over the coffin of a person who died from COVID during a funeral at a cemetery in Mumbai, India, June , . The number of COVID cases in India surpassed , by June .  Illegal drugs are destroyed in Phnom Penh, Cambodia, June , . June  is the International Day Against Drug Abuse and Illicit Trafficking.  Soldiers patrol in front of the Eiffel tower as part of Frances national security alert system called Sentinelle during a warm and sunny day in Paris as a heat wave hit France, June , . Eiffel Tower reopened on June  after closing for more than three months due to COVID.  A worker sanitizes a traffic light in Regent Street, amid the spread of the COVID in London, June , . The number of coronavirus cases in the UK surpassed , by June .  Jamil jumps onto a barricade with graffiti reading Cop free zone as his parents stand nearby at the CHOP area as people continue to occupy space and protest against racial inequality in the aftermath of the death in Minneapolis police custody of George Floyd, in Seattle, Washington, June , .  The signs reminding people of maintaining social distance are shown at the Time Square in New York on June , . The number of COVID cases in the US surpassed . million on June .  Police stand guard as protesters gather to support asylum seekers detained at the Kangaroo Point Central Hotel in Brisbane, Australia, June , .  Buses are seen as stranded commuters wait for transportation at a bus terminal during a protest by taxi operators over the governments financial relief for the taxi industry, amid the COVID lockdown, in Soweto, South Africa, June , . 