With increasing infections, Mideast states strive to stave off COVID resurgence
2020/6/29 8:59
An Iranian man and his son wearing a protective face mask walks in a street, following the outbreak of the coronavirus disease COVID, in Tehran, Iran, June , .  CAIRO  The death toll from the novel coronavirus in Iran hit , on Sunday after the registration of  more fatalities, while Saudi Arabia reported , new infections, raising the total number in the kingdom to ,. In Iran, the hardest hit country in the Middle East, the overall number of the COVID cases has grown to , after , new infections were added, according to Sima Sadat Lari, spokeswoman for Irans Ministry of Health and Medical Education. So far, , patients have recovered from the virus and , remain in critical condition, said Lari. In order to curb the increasing infections and fatalities after the partial lift of lockdown, Iranian President Hassan Rouhani said on Sunday that wearing face masks in public places will be made mandatory from July  for two weeks. With no tangible sign of slowdown in the pandemic, Saudi Arabia on Sunday confirmed  more deaths and , new recovered cases, increasing the death toll to , and the total recoveries to ,. The Saudi health ministry revealed that the number of daily tests for COVID has jumped from about , at the beginning of the outbreak to ,, as more than . million coronavirus tests have been conducted so far. Amid the normalization process away from the restrictions against the spread of COVID, Turkey reported , new cases in the past  hours, raising the total number in the country to ,. Turkish Health Minister Fahrettin Koca announced that  more patients died from coronavirus, taking the death toll to ,, while , patients recovered in the past  hours, raising the total number of recoveries to ,. Qatars Health Ministry on Sunday announced  new infections of COVID, raising the total number of confirmed cases in the Gulf state to ,. Egypt reported on Sunday , new COVID infections, bringing the total cases registered in the country since midFebruary to ,, said the health ministry. Meanwhile,  COVID patients died from the coronavirus, raising the death toll to ,, while  more patients were completely cured, increasing the total recoveries in the North African country to ,, Health Ministry spokesman Khaled Megahed said in a statement. Daily infections in Egypt have been surpassing , cases since May , with a record , infections on June . The Egyptian government has decided to resume air traffic at all airports from July  after more than three months of international flight suspension over the coronavirus concerns. As the first among the Gulf countries to report COVID cases, the United Arab Emirates UAE on Sunday announced  new COVID cases, bringing the total confirmed cases in the country to ,. The UAE health ministry also confirmed two more fatalities from the virus, pushing up the countrys death toll to . In Kuwait,  new COVID cases and four more deaths were reported on Sunday, raising the tally of infections to , and the death toll to , two days before the Gulf country will start its threeweek second phase of returning to normal life. In the second phase, public and private sectors in Kuwait will resume no more than  percent of their capacity, while shopping malls, financial institutions, retail shops and parks will reopen. Iraq reported , new coronavirus cases in the past  hours, bringing the total number of infections to ,. The Omani health ministry announced on Sunday , new confirmed cases of COVID, bringing the total number in the country to ,. Israel reported on Sunday  new coronavirus cases, bringing the total number in the country to , including , active cases, the highest since May . The Israeli government announced on Sunday that the eligibility for unemployment benefits for people on unpaid leave would be extended until midAugust amid a second wave of the coronavirus outbreak. Eligibility for the grants to the yearolds and above who have not yet returned to work will also be extended, according to the government. In addition, Israel will reduce the time period between detecting a new patient and bringing all contacts to home quarantine from at least five days to a maximum of  hours to curb the recent rise in the COVID morbidity, the prime ministers office said in a statement on Sunday. The number of COVID cases registered in Palestine has reached ,, including  recoveries and seven deaths, after  new infections were added on Sunday. Hebron, the largest district in the West Bank, has become the epicenter of the new coronavirus outbreak that hit the region in midJune, where  new cases were reported on Sunday. In Iraq, the head of the Iraqi Medical Association called on Sunday for reimposing full curfew to contain the increasing daily infections with coronavirus. Otherwise, we must accept huge loss of life, as well as the possibility of the collapse in health system and the subsequent chaos, AbdulAmir alShimmary warned. Algeria on Sunday reported  new cases of COVID, the highest singleday increase in the North African country, raising the total number of infections to ,, including  deaths and , recoveries. A total of  new COVID cases were confirmed in Morocco on Sunday, bringing the total number of coronavirus cases in the North African country to ,. In Lebanon and Jordan, the number of COVID cases on Sunday rose by  and  to respectively to , and ,. Wartorn Yemen recorded on Sunday  new confirmed COVID cases in the provinces controlled by the government, bringing the total number to ,, including  fatalities.