Voters deliver verdict on Macron in local elections
2020/6/29 0:00
PARISVoters in France donned face masks to cast their ballots on Sunday in a delayed second round of countrywide municipal elections, a midterm test for French President Emmanuel Macron and his ruling party that he could fail. The first round controversially went ahead on March  just as the coronavirus outbreak was gaining deadly momentum, but the second phase scheduled for March  was put off to June  after France went into lockdown. Sundays voting took place in , municipalities, as well as in the districts of Paris, Lyon and Marseille, where the councils were not elected in the first round. For the voting, the French Interior Ministry recommended voters should keep a safe distance from each other, wear a mask at polling stations and bring their own pens to sign off their vote. Analysts forecast that the election would underline the failure of Macrons centrist Republic on the Move, or LREM partyfounded by the president before his  election winto gain a strong foothold at a local level. Socialist Mayor Anne Hidalgo is predicted to hold on to the key battleground of Paris, with LREM candidate and former health minister Agnes Buzyn well behind after Macrons original choice pulled out in a sexting scandal. With a death toll fast approaching ,, France has been badly hit by the coronavirus pandemic. While most restrictions have now been eased, there is widespread anger at the government over shortages of protective equipment in the early stages of the pandemic. Paris is now buzzing with speculation that if a poor showing by the LREM is confirmed, Macron will take the chance to announce a major cabinet reshuffle. This could include the post of Prime Minister Edouard Philippe, who in an oddity of French politics is also campaigning to be mayor of the Normandy port city of Le Havre. During the pandemic, the popularity of Philippe, a technocratic and unshowy figure, has risen to a level much higher than that of the presidents low ratings, raising speculation Macron may prefer to see him work fulltime in his Norman fiefdom. No anchor A poll by Harris Interactive Epoka published on Friday showed that  percent of respondents had a favorable opinion of Macron but  percent were positive on Philippe, a jump of  points for the premier since the start of the epidemic. There will not be any significant conquests for LREM, said Emmanuel Riviere, a pollster who is president of the Kantar Centre on the Future of Europe. This will deprive the ruling party of a territorial anchor that it could have depended on in future elections. Frances next presidential poll will be in  in which analysts expect the main challenger for Macron to be farright leader Marine Le Pen of the National Rally, or RN party. Despite their abysmal performance in the last presidential elections, the Socialists were expected to keep key regional centers. There will also be close attention on performance of the green Europe Ecology, or the EELV party which seeks to keep the Alpine hub of Grenoble and also has its eyes on taking Strasbourg and Lyon. In Marseille, left wing candidate Michele Rubirola wants to cause a major sensation by taking Frances second city from the right after a quarter of a century of control. Agencies  Xinhua ?