Irans number of cases rises Turkey imposes curfew
2020/6/29 0:00
CAIROThe number of confirmed COVID cases surpassed , in Iran on Saturday Turkeys infections approached ,, and it imposed a partial curfew as nationwide university entrance exams were held. Iran reemerged as the hardesthit country by the pandemic in the Middle East, reporting , new cases, taking its total number to , on Sunday. The country also reported  new deaths, raising the death toll to ,. However, a total of , patients have recovered, and , are in critical condition. The total number of coronavirus cases in Turkey rose to , after , new infections were reported on Saturday, Turkish Health Minister Fahrettin Koca said. The death toll from the virus rose to ,, and , patients recovered, raising the total number of recoveries to ,. On the same day, about . million Turkish high school graduates took the university entrance exam under a partial curfew imposed for this weekend to limit the social interaction on streets over concerns about the spread of the virus. Local authorities in each province also announced a series of measures against the pandemic, reminding parents and students to strictly follow social distancing rules and wear masks. Students were also provided with hand sanitizers and extra masks at the exam centers. Istanbul municipality said public transport would be operational at full capacity and would be free for students and teachers. Indias confirmed cases crossed half a million on Saturday, with another record daily jump of , infections. The health ministry reported  new deaths, raising the total to ,. With more than , cases, New Delhi has been hit harder than any other Indian city. Infections were initially projected to rise to half a million by the end of July in Delhi, the territory that includes the capital. But with the rate of infections slowing, the number has been revised to ,, and Acting Health Minister Manish Sisodia said he was hopeful that it could be less. But we cant be under any illusions, he said on Saturday. The availability of medical staff is a big challenge that other states need to address as well, he added. The surge also prompted authorities in the northeastern state of Assam to impose a twoweek lockdown in the state capital of Gauhati. About  new cases were reported there in just four days. The states health minister said the rest of Assam will be placed under a curfew and weekend lockdowns. He also urged people to store essential goods and signaled a tighter lockdown in which even grocery stores would be closed. Highest daily increase In Africa, South Africa on Saturday reported , new cases, the highest daily rise since the disease broke out in early March. With the new cases, the total number in the country has risen to ,, the countrys health department said in its daily report. The country recorded  new deaths, taking the death toll to ,, the department said. South Africas Western Cape remained the epicenter of the pandemic with , cases, followed by Gauteng with , and the Eastern Cape with ,. The pandemic also took its toll on schools following the phased reopening of grade  and grade  classes on June . According to the education department,  schools across the country had to close at some stage following infections among teachers and pupils. More than  pupils and , staff members have tested positive since schools reopened three weeks ago, the education department said, adding that the Eastern Cape has the highest number of pupils who have contracted the virus, with  testing positive. Despite growing calls for the government to cancel its school reopening program, Minister of Basic Education Angie Motshekga said her department would go ahead with the plan for a phased reopening. Xinhua  Agencies ? A student shows her documents as she arrives at the main campus of Istanbul University to take the national university entrance exams in Turkey on Saturday. MURAD SEZERREUTERS ? ?