US lableak probe seeks predestined result
2021/8/19 9:57
A child is pictured in Luweero district, Uganda, on July , .  Ugandas Ministry of Health has reported a polio outbreak in the country, following confirmation of positive laboratory tests from environmental samples in the capital Kampala. The samples were collected from sewage plants in Bugolobi and Lbigi, which are two of the sentinel environmental surveillance sites in Kampala. In a statement on Tuesday, the ministry said results from the tests carried out at the Uganda Virus Research Institute confirmed a circulating vaccinederived poliovirus type , also known as cVDPV. According to a Xinhua News Agency report citing government data, more than . million children in the country are at risk since they have no protection against this type  virus. The detected virus has a genetic linkage with a circulating vaccinederived poliovirus type  strain reported in Sudan. The virus affects children in communities with low immunity levels. The ministry attributed the resurgence of polio to the reduced routine immunization and polio immunization rates in the country during the COVID pandemic. It also warned that incessant crossborder movement among neighboring countries and the countries from the Horn of Africa region currently affected by cVDPV outbreaks pose a risk of further polio importations. In the past  months, more than  African countries have declared cVDPV outbreaks, including three countries bordering Ugandathe Democratic Republic of the Congo, South Sudan and Kenya. Polio does not respect borders and is spreading fast in the East African region putting children, particularly those aged  and below, at the risk of contracting this incurable disease yet vaccine preventable disease, the ministry said. The ministry has heightened surveillance of polio in the country by intensifying the search for cases in all health facilities by reporting and investigating all children under the age of  with sudden onset of paralysis or weakness in the arms or legs, and expanding environmental surveillance. Plans are also underway to conduct a nationwide housetohouse polio immunization campaign between October and December, targeting children aged  and below. All healthcare workers participating in the campaign will be required to wear face masks and strictly observe COVID standard operating procedures, so as to ensure children are safely vaccinated, according to the ministry. Uganda was certified free of all polioviruses in . Polio is a viral disease that is transmitted from person to person, mainly through a fecaloral route. It can spread through contaminated water or food.