Just off the speedin track
2020/6/28 7:22
Since the COVID outbreak, the freight trains have been playing a crucial role in supporting Europes antiepidemic fight by opening green passages for the transport of important supplies and raw materials. Beyond the contributions to underpinning antipandemic actions, the rail connection between China and Europe, since the restoration of its regular operation, has also brought an impetus to economic resumption in the Eurasian continent amid the pandemic by stabilizing trade and supply chains. Amid efforts to expand common interests in ChinaEU cooperation, the ChinaEurope rail transport service, which was initiated in , is widely expected to play an increasingly important role in the postpandemic era. Policemen checks an outbound ChinaEurope freight train at Horgos Pass in northwest Chinas Xinjiang Uygur autonomous region, April , . FRANKFURT  Departing from Nanchang, the capital of Chinas Jiangxi Province, a cargo train loaded with medical materials against COVID arrived in Paris Tuesday morning, vividly reflecting the sustained pragmatic antipandemic cooperation between China and Europe. Among many ChinaEurope express operations for transport of muchneeded medical supplies since the COVID outbreak, this train had run over , km through seven countries before delivering some  million surgical masks and gloves, watersoluble bags, contactless gel dispensers and other resources, which marked the first dedicated rail transport of protective materials directly from China to France amid the pandemic. In the meantime, two additional ChinaEurope freight trains carrying anticoronavirus supplies are on their way to Duisburg, Germany, and Madrid, Spain respectively, expected to arrive on Saturday and Monday. Aerial photo taken on April ,  shows a logistic station of the Erenhot Port in north Chinas Inner Mongolia autonomous region. The port has handled  ChinaEurope freight trains in the first quarter of this year.? ANTIPANDEMIC GREEN PASSAGE Since the COVID outbreak, the freight trains have been playing a crucial role in supporting Europes antiepidemic fight by opening green passages for the transport of important supplies and raw materials. From January to May, a total of , tonnes of antiepidemic materials were sent from China to European countries by train. Lyazid Benhami, vicepresident of the Paris Association of FrenchChinese Friendship, was delighted to witness the arrival of the medical train from China. In this period of health crisis, we are pleased to note that this important volume of materials transported to France, including  million surgical masks and protective equipment, is up to meet the demand and needs of consumers and the market, he said. The smooth operation of this antivirus supply train has proven the feasibility, punctuality and safety of this land corridor with lower delivery costs than air freight, but less time consumption and more flexibility than sea freight, said Yao Hongzhi, general manager of COSCO Shipping France Agency. Against the backdrop of current international antipandemic cooperation, ChinaEurope freight trains have fully demonstrated their advantages in transporting medical materials, Yao added. Carrying  containers of COVID control and prevention materials, all of which were manufactured in central Chinas Hubei Province, a freight train from Wuhan, the provincial capital, is expected to arrive in the western German city of Duisburg, a logistics hub in central Europe on Saturday, before running further towards Hamburg. A ChinaEurope freight train bound for Duisburg of Germany pulls out of the Wuhan terminal of China Railway Intermodal in Wuhan, central Chinas Hubei province, March , .? The original mode of transportation was container shipping to Europe, but now the products need to be delivered as soon as possible, said Gao Zandong, deputy general manager of COSCO Shipping Lines Wuhan. Gao noted that only a little bit more than  days were needed to transport muchneeded medical materials from Hubei to Germany. On June , Madrid will also greet a freight train from the city of Yiwu, east Chinas Zhejiang Province, carrying  TEUs with about  tonnes of cargo, including . million face masks and , protective suits. Carlos Santana, who is responsible for the company which operates the YiwuMadrid line in Spain, told Xinhua that railway transport has been proven to be a reliable means of importing health materials from China in the midst of the pandemic. Chinese Ambassador to Spain Wu Haitao said the YiwuMadrid express with medical materials is a living proof of international anticoronavirus cooperation. A ChinaEurope freight train carrying medical supplies bound for Madrid of Spain departs the city of Yiwu, East Chinas Zhejiang province, June , .? ECONOMIC BENEFITS Beyond the contributions to underpinning antipandemic actions, the rail connection between China and Europe, since the restoration of its regular operation, has also brought an impetus to economic resumption in the Eurasian continent amid the pandemic by stabilizing trade and supply chains. From January to May, the number and shipments of ChinaEurope freight trains surged by  percent and  percent yearonyear respectively, according to the China State Railway Group. Notably, freight trains made a new high of , trips in May, up  percent yearonyear, transporting a record of , TEUs. ChinaEurope freight trains open an opportunity for boosting trade between France and China, Benhami noted, adding that the winwin approach is very real for everyone, including the environment, businesses and consumers. Xulio Rios, director of the Observatory of Chinese Politics in Spain, said the railway connection between Yiwu and Madrid offers an important route for goods traffic, from medical materials to items for everyday use during the ongoing COVID crisis. From Santanas perspective, rail transport from Asia continues to upgrade from moving smallsized, lowcost goods towards delivering goods with added value, as China is exporting goods with added value in greater quantities, such as watches, Bluetooth devices, automobile parts, electrical goods, and so on. From Spain, he added, topend consumer goods like extra virgin olive oil, wine and cured ham are brought to China by rail as well, with clear advantages of being speedy, ecological and costeffective. Laszlo Mosoczi, secretary of state for transport policy at Hungarian Ministry of Innovation and Technology, said that as a transit country, Hungary benefits from freight traffic from Asia to Europe, and Hungary can become the logistics center of the region. Aerial photo taken on April ,  shows a ChinaEurope freight train, also the China Post CR Express st block train, running under a bridge in Chongqing municipality, southwest China.? PROMISING IN POSTPANDEMIC ERA China is willing to join hands with the European side to push for a more stable and mature relationship in the postpandemic era and lift bilateral ties to a new height, Chinese President Xi Jinping said Monday when meeting via video link with EU leaders. Our two major economies should play the role as dual engines of the world economy, drive the recovery of global economy, jointly support a scientific and orderly resumption of work and production, strengthen macroeconomic policy coordination, and keep global industrial and supply chains stable and smooth, Xi said. Amid efforts to expand common interests in ChinaEU cooperation, the ChinaEurope rail transport service, which was initiated in , is widely expected to play an increasingly important role in the postpandemic era. The freight trains that link China and Europe have become a symbol of mutual benefits, said Rios. Chinesemade Volvo XC vehicles exported to Europe via China Railway Express Changan are seen at the Port of Ghent in Belgium on July , .? If we refer to the ongoing Belt and Road Initiative, we notice that the land route brings hope for both French and Chinese companies, Benhami said, noting that the initiative brings new opportunities of economic development. The YiwuMadrid line can play an important role in crossborder ecommerce between China and Spain, Wu said. He stressed that local governments and companies in Spain have shown a positive attitude toward strengthening cooperation on Yixinou cargo line YiwuXinjiangEurope by expanding exports to China in a more convenient manner. We wish to offer French and Chinese companies occasional train solutions, said Xavier Wanderpepen, who is responsible for ChinaEurope rail freight activities at Forwardis, a subsidiary of Frances national railway company SNCF Logistics. And we wish to work with China on the development of freight wagons with variable gauge capable of adapting to the situation in Western Europe, Russia and China. In a few years, we will be able to connect China and Europe in  days, Wanderpepen added.