Liverpool fans in dreamland as long wait finally ends
2020/6/27 0:00
LIVERPOOLLiverpool was crowned Premier League champion on Thursday as Chelseas win over Manchester City ended the Reds year wait to win the English title, with jubilant fans ignoring socialdistancing guidelines to converge on Anfield. Jurgen Klopps men sealed a th league title with a record seven games remaining after defeat for secondplace City left the champion for the past two seasons  points adrift. Liverpool, which was tantalizingly close to glory when the coronavirus forced the shutdown of English soccer in March, demolished Crystal Palace  at its home ground of Anfield on Wednesday to stand on the brink of the title. City needed to win at Stamford Bridge to keep the title race alive but slipped to a  defeat. Liverpool tweeted Were Premier League champions!! seconds after the final whistle in west London while City tweeted their congratulations. Its such a big moment, I am completely overwhelmed, an emotional Klopp told Sky Sports. Tonight it is for you out there. Its incredible. I hope you stay at home, or go in front of your house if you want, but not more. We do it together in this moment and it is a joy to do it for you. Liverpool captain Jordan Henderson hailed Klopps transformational impact on the club. We followed him and believed him, he said. Its been an amazing journey. Im hoping there is more. We just keep hungry, keep wanting more and following him. The biggest thing is no matter what, we all follow him, believe in him and hes taken us to this point. Thousands of Liverpool fans, many in face masks, streamed towards Anfield despite restrictions still in place due to COVID. They lit flares and sang songs. Cars also gathered outside the ground, with some beeping horns as they passed. Record breakers Liverpool has clinched the title earlier than any other Premier League champion, breaking the previous record of five games left shared by City and Manchester United. But it has been an agonizing wait for Liverpool fans across the world, with the coronavirus lockdown forcing them to put the champagne on ice. Videos on social media showed many of Liverpools players watching the Chelsea match together at a hotel. We wont tell you the exact location but we are all in a hotel together as a team, Liverpool defender Andrew Robertson told the BBC. We thought something hopefully special was going to happen and thats how it turned out. Left behind Liverpool spent years in the shadow of archrivals Manchester United during the Alex Ferguson era before being left behind by the massive spending of Manchester City and Chelsea. They infamously squandered a golden opportunity to win the title in  under manager Brendan Rodgers, when Reds captain Steven Gerrard made his costly slip in a lateseason defeat against Chelsea. But Klopps team is a deserved champion after an incredible campaign that could end in recordbreaking style. Liverpool, which is now one title behind Manchester Uniteds English record haul of , is on course to beat Manchester Citys record points total of  set in . Klopp, the first German manager to win the Premier League, has been the architect of Liverpools renaissance since the former Borussia Dortmund boss arrived at Anfield in . Infusing his players with a belief in his heavy metal football and hightempo gegenpressing gameplan, the charismatic Klopp has earned his place alongside Liverpools iconic former managers Bill Shankly, Bob Paisley and Kenny Dalglish. He epitomizes everything that Liverpool Football Club stands for. He appreciates it, he respects everyone who works at he club, Dalglish said of the man to succeed him as the latest Liverpool manager to win the league. Klopp led the club to the Champions League last season, but Liverpool was pipped to the Premier League title by City despite finishing with a record  points for a topflight runnerup. But with Mo Salah, Sadio Mane and Roberto Firmino forming a formidable front three, Henderson a tireless presence in midfield and Virgil van Dijk imperious at the back, Liverpool has left City trailing in its wake this season. That is the reality, that we are so far behind, said City boss Pep Guardiola. Liverpool were fantastic in consistency throughout the whole season. Agence Francepresse A Liverpool fan celebrates the Reds Premier League title triumph outside the clubs Anfield stadium on Thursday. REUTERS ? ?