UK warned over second wave of virus
2020/6/25 17:28
The United Kingdoms top health officials have written an open letter warning of the need for an urgent review of preparations for a second wave of novel coronavirus infections. On Tuesday Prime Minister Boris Johnson announced the loosening of lockdown measures in England, but in a letter published in the British Medical Journal, figures including the presidents of the Royal Colleges of Surgeons, Nursing, Physicians, and General Practitioners expressed concerns. While the future shape of the pandemic in the UK is hard to predict, the available evidence indicates that local flareups are increasingly likely and a second wave a real risk, they wrote. Many elements of the infrastructure needed to contain the virus are beginning to be put in place, but substantial challenges remain. Johnson said outlets including pubs, restaurants and hairdressers can reopen from July . The twometer social distancing regulation has been replaced by one meter plus, meaning where possible, people should stick to two meters, but otherwise at least one. At Tuesdays daily media briefing, the governments chief scientific adviser Sir Patrick Vallance and the chief medical officer for England Professor Chris Whitty warned Johnsons plan was not riskfree, and on Wednesday another  deaths took the UKs total death toll up to ,. Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland have not changed social distancing rules but Scotlands First Minister Nicola Sturgeon said pubs, restaurants and hairdressers can reopen next month because of real sustained progress having been made in suppressing the spread of infection. Meanwhile, the government has revealed almost one million small businesses applied for its bounce back loan scheme. From . million applications, , businesses received support of just more than  billion pounds . billion, out of a total of more than  billion pounds lent to businesses through four support schemes. The main one, the furlough, has seen the government supplement the wages of more than  million employees at more than  million companies. Events in Germany have shown the potential for more infection, after authorities in the state of North RhineWestphalia reimposed restrictions after fresh outbreaks. The districts of Guersloh and Wardendorf are affected, with what State Premier Armin Laschet called preventative measures lasting until June . Lockdown measures vary regionally in Germany, with local authorities having enforcement powers. There has also been an outbreak in a tower block in the city of Gottingen, where police were sent in after some residents tried to escape quarantine. In Bulgaria, Prime Minister Boiko Borissov, who has refused to wear a facemask throughout the pandemic, has been fined for entering one of the countrys most famous monasteries to inspect a renovation project without a mask, the countrys Health Ministry confirmed.