Growing multiethnicity bodes well for US
2021/8/19 9:30
People wear masks around Times Square, as cases of the infectious coronavirus Delta variant continue to rise in New York, July , .  Data from the United States Census published this month owed the proportion of the population identifying as white has for the first time fallen below  percent, highlighting the countrys increasing multiethnicity. Our analysis of the  Census results show that the US population is much more multiracial, and more racially and ethnically diverse than what we measured in the past, according to Nicholas Jones, a research director at the Census Bureau. Confirmation of the trend will be a cause for celebration among those who see a multicultural and multiethnic future as fulfillment of the countrys unique origins and destiny. Those who believe that their whiteness makes them somehow more American than their nonwhite fellow citizens will lament the further evidence that they are headed toward one day becoming a minority. One of the largest increases in the onceadecade census was an almost threefold rise in the number of people identifying as being of mixed ethnicity. That choice has only been an option on the census form since . California, the most populous state, is now officially more Hispanic than white, while its Asian population has grown by  percent in the past  years. Columnist Charles M. Blow wrote in The New York Times that some would find the latest figures fascinating, while others would regard them as downright frightening. Much of what we have seen in recent yearsthe rise of Donald Trump, xenophobia and racist efforts to enshrine or at least extend white power by packing the courts and suppressing minority voteshas been rooted in a fear of political, cultural and economic displacement, he wrote. Last years Black Lives Matter protests in the wake of the police killing of George Floyd confirmed that, more than  years after the abolition of slavery, the black population of the US continues to suffer from prejudice and marginalization. Progressives lauded the election of Barack Obama for the first of two terms as president in  as the beginning of a colorblind US. But it also spurred a backlash from some whites that in part fueled the America First rhetoric of former president Donald Trump. The US is almost by definition a nation of immigrants. But in the minds of white supremacists, some immigrants are clearly more equal than others. CNN noted that the census data showed the multiracial population had grown in almost every county in the US. But that did not mean racism was over. The network quoted one biracial interviewee as saying Even if the white individuals in our country are decreasing numerically, it doesnt necessarily suggest that theyre losing any of their power. These power structures are built into our systems historically and will still be built pretty strongly going forward. As well as confirming the trend toward diversity, the latest census also indicated that the US is becoming more urban, a shift that could help the Democratic Party in future elections. Analysts suggested that anticipated Democratic losses in midterm elections next year could be mitigated by the growth of towns and cities, which tend to vote for Democrats, and a decline in rural populations, which tend to vote Republican. The census is politically important because it determines the boundaries of voting districts for elections to the House of Representatives. Although both parties will push for boundaries that best suit their electoral interests, analysts believe the way that different ethnic groups votewith minorities tending to lean toward the Democratspresented a challenge for the Republicans. The latest data showed that the biggest population group, after the  million identifying as white, were the . million identifying as Hispanic. African Americans totaled  million and Asians  million. American Indian and Alaska Natives numbered . million, and native Hawaiians and Pacific Islanders . million. The most remarkable increase, however, was among those now happy to recognize their own mixed ethnic identityalmost  million. One of the many positive elements of the latest census figures is that, while white supremacists rail against the challenge to their favored status, and politicians wrangle over how best to exploit demographic change, an increasing number of Americans of all races are voting with their hearts. Harvey Morris is a senior media consultant for China Daily UK.