Main construction begins on Shanghai Disneylands Zootopia
2020/6/24 11:45
? US President Donald Trump speaks while participating in a roundtable briefing on border security at the US Border Patrol Yuma Station in Yuma, Arizona, US, June , .  US President Donald Trump inspected the USMexico border wall and addressed young conservatives in Arizona on Tuesday, the same day the number of confirmed novel coronavirus cases and hospitalizations from those infections hit the highest singleday total in the state since the start of the pandemic. The state broke its daily record for new infections with ,, bringing its total to ,, as the states COVID death toll rose by  to ,. Daily hospitalizations exceeded , for the first time, according to the Arizona Department of Health Services. Arizona joins California, Texas and Florida as the states recording the biggest surges of coronavirus cases. California reported more than , new infections Monday, surpassing its previous record of , recorded the day before. Hospitalizations also increased to more than ,. In Texas, Republican Governor Greg Abbott said Tuesday that the state surpassed , new coronavirus cases in one day. The number of hospital patients with COVID in Harris County, which encompasses Houston, has nearly tripled since May . Our power on the local level was stripped away, and we started opening up, said Houston Mayor Sylvester Turner on Monday. I said two months ago I thought we were moving too quickly, too fast, and now we find ourselves where we are today. A day after surpassing , total cases of coronavirus, Florida reported another , cases Tuesday morning. Several cities in MiamiDade County, including Miami, have announced that masks will now be required in public. In a statement before Trumps arrival in Arizona, former vicepresident Joe Biden, the likely Democratic presidential candidate, called Trumps decision to hold a rally in Phoenix reckless and irresponsible given spikes in the number of infections in the state. During a tour of sections of the border wall near Yuma, Trump accused Biden and congressional Democrats of being weak on border security. The Biden people  and hes controlled totally by the radical left, as you understand, hes not controlling, theyre controlling him  they want open borders, they want criminal sanctuaries, they want everything that doesnt work, he said. In Phoenix, the president was scheduled to go to Dream City Church for a Students for Trump event. Organizers said they expect more than , mostly young attendees to comply with the citys new mask ordinance. But Trump  along with Governor Doug Ducey, US Senator Martha McSally and US Representative Debbie Lesko, who accompanied the president on his third trip to Arizona in five months  didnt wear a mask. Anyone who registered for the event was required to sign a waiver. By attending this convention, you and any guest voluntarily assume all risks related to exposure to Covid and agree not to hold Turning Point Action, their affiliates, Dream City Church, employees, agents, contractors, or volunteers liable for any illness or injury, it said. A similar waiver was required of those who attended Trumps rally Saturday in Tulsa, Oklahoma. Trumps campaign said Monday that two staffers who attended that rally tested positive for coronavirus. Eight of the Trump advance team staffers in Tulsa have now tested positive for coronavirus. Arizona is considered a critical state for Trump to win in November. In the  presidential election, he won the state by a margin of . percentage points. A Real Clear Politics average of state polls shows Biden with a  percentagepoint lead. They should be very concerned about Arizona, said former Republican National Committee chairman Michael Steele to The Wall Street Journal. We are still in the middle of a national pandemic, the economy is still in a very deep hole and now you have civil unrest along racial concerns. The presidents voice in these areas has fallen short. The Trump campaign said in a statement, Arizonans trusted President Trump with their votes in  and hes delivered on everything from tax reform, to trade, to border security. The statement predicted he would win the state again. The second presidential debate between Trump and Biden set for October has been moved to Miami after the University of Michigan on Tuesday morning withdrew from hosting it. The Presidential Commission on Debates said in a statement later Tuesday that the university concluded that it wasnt feasible to hold the debate there. The Detroit Free Press on Monday quoted sources as saying the school would announce its withdrawal because of concerns of bringing the campaigns, media and supporters of both candidates to the campus during a pandemic. Michigan, with  electoral votes, is a major battleground state for the  presidential election. The debate will now be held at the Adrienne Arsht Center for the Performing Arts in Miami on Oct . The Arsht Center was the site of the first Democratic presidential primary debate last year.