Chalco to source bauxite from Africa
2020/6/24 9:33
Chalco employees load bauxite onto a truck at a mine in Guinea. Photo by Meng Fankaifor China Daily Move of central SOE to ensure supply of raw materials amid COVID pandemic and further increase selfsufficiency Aluminum Corporation of China Ltd Chalco, a centrally administered Stateowned enterprise, is set to send its first shipment from a bauxite mine in Boffa, Guinea soon, the company told China Daily in a written statement. A large oceangoing ship laden with high quality bauxite from Boffa in Guinea, Chalcos first largescale overseas aluminum project, is about to arrive at the Fangchenggang port in the Guangxi Zhuang autonomous region, the company said. The project, a major cooperation project between China and Guinea that started construction in , will be completed two months ahead of schedule. It will not only bring mutual benefits and winwin results for both sides but also become an important source of overseas bauxite resources for Chalco. Bauxite is a rock which can be refined and is the main source in the world for aluminum. Chalco is a leading company in Chinas nonferrous metals industry. It is engaged in the whole value chain by exploring and mining bauxite and coal. The company is active in the production, sales, research and development of alumina, primary aluminum and aluminum alloy products. It is also involved in international trade, logistics, and power generation from both fossil fuels and new energy products. Industry analysts believe the Boffa project plays a significant role in ensuring the companys sourcing of raw materials. Chinas mining companies have been going overseas to secure a stable supply of raw materials. Chalco, the largest Stateowned aluminum producer, has entered into an agreement to develop the Boffa bauxite in Guinea, in order to increase its selfsufficiency in bauxite to  percent by the end of , said Zhu Yi, a senior analyst for metals and mining at Bloomberg. Zhu believes the full production rampup of the Boffa mine could lift Chalcos bauxite output by  percent by the end of . The mine has an expected life span of  years with fullcapacity annual production forecast at  million metric tons. The company said the initial phase consists of production of  million tons of bauxite ore per year. The available resource reserves in the mining area of the project is around . billion tons, and the company plans first phase construction with an annual output capacity of  million tons. Zhu said Chalco has been investing to increase its selfsufficiency of raw materials such as bauxite and alumina, and increasing its ratio of captive power to reduce costs amid ample output of aluminum of China. Producing aluminum is energy intensive, with power costs accounting for more than  percent of total production costs. It is believed the new infrastructure plan will also boost Chinas aluminum consumption and push for structural changes of Chinas aluminum industry to produce more high valueadded products. China has pledged fresh efforts to push forward the construction of new infrastructure, including nextgeneration information networks, G applications, as well as building more new energy vehicle charging facilities to promote the wider use of new energy automobiles, a government work report delivered at the annual national legislative session said. Xu Xianping, a former deputy head of the National Development and Reform Commission, said the countrys investment in new infrastructure is expected to reach . trillion yuan . trillion for the  period, an annualized growth rate of around . percent. While Chinas aluminum industry is currently oversupplied with lowend commodity grade products, it is in a supply deficit for highend products. The construction of intercity high speed train and G base station requires highend aluminum products. This will drive domestic producers, including Chalco, to upgrade their product mix, said Zhu. She believes Chinas exports of aluminum products will decline this year by around  percent, due to falling downstream demand overseas. The demand from exportoriented home appliance and auto producers for aluminum products will also fall, as these producers find it difficult at this time to export, she said. Chalco said as the COVID pandemic develops overseas, the company has hired local medical teams to provide guidance and support for workers at the Boffa project to ensure their security and wellbeing. The company has also been teaming up with local partners to sustain its project even though many infrastructure project operations overseas have been slowed by the disease. To make sure the project operates on schedule, the Guinea branch of the company has covered all the flight and quarantine expenses to send staff back to Guinea to push the project forward. All of its overseas units and offices have strictly complied with the COVID prevention and control measures. These measures have laid down protocols for each project in accordance with local conditions, it said. The firm has donated a huge amount of pandemicprevention supplies, including masks, gloves and protective clothing, as well as medical equipment worth more than . million yuan to several countries. Those countries include Italy, Germany, Canada, the United States, France, Spain, South Africa, Brazil, South Korea, Japan, Saudi Arabia, Indonesia, Malaysia, Sri Lanka, Thailand, Singapore, India, Vietnam, Australia and Venezuela, it said.