Federal judge overturns Texas ban on masks at schools
2021/11/12 11:30
Children participate in an activity in class at the Xavier Academy in Houston, Texas on Aug , .  Texas Attorney General Ken Paxton says the state is considering all legal avenues to challenge a federal judges decision that allows local school officials to again create their own mask rules. The ruling impacts more than  million Texas schoolchildren. The decision could have national implications as several other states are fighting in courts over mask requirements for children in schools. In his decision issued Wednesday, US District Court Judge Lee Yeakel said Texas Governor Greg Abbotts ban against mask mandates impedes children with disabilities from the benefits of public school programs, services and activities, and violates the Americans with Disabilities Act ADA. The judge also prohibited Paxton from enforcing the governors order. The lawsuit was filed by activist group Disability Rights Texas on behalf of several families of students with disabilities in August with the Texas Education Agency TEA and the attorney general as defendants. They argued that the mask ban denied children with disabilities access to public education, as they are at high risk of illness and death from the virus. The spread of COVID poses an even greater risk for children with special health needs, Yeakel said. Children with certain underlying conditions who contract COVID are more likely to experience severe acute biological effects and to require admission to a hospital and the hospitals intensivecare unit. Kym Davis Rogers, litigation attorney with Disability Rights Texas, said in a statement that state officials cannot prevent school districts from providing accommodations to students who are especially vulnerable to the risks of COVID. No student should be forced to make the choice of forfeiting their education or risking their health, and now they wont have to, Rogers said. Many school districts ignored Abbotts mask ban order and went with mask mandates anyway. Some school districts sued over the ban, but the Texas Supreme Court repeatedly upheld Abbotts order. However, a few school districts had rescinded their mask mandates after Abbotts order was issued. The attorney representing the state argued that neither the attorney general nor the Texas Education Agency were enforcing the executive order, so they couldnt be sued. However, Paxton sued several school districts over requiring masks. He also sent letters to districts threatening legal action if they didnt rescind mask mandates. A recent poll conducted by the Texas Tribune and University of Texas has show that majority of Texans   and  percent respectively  support mask mandates in indoor public places or in public schools. Another  percent and  percent were opposed to mask mandates in indoor public places or in public schools. The survey was conducted on Oct  with a sample size of ,. Attitudes toward mask mandates differ greatly along partisan lines  more than  percent of Democrats favor the mandates, while more than  percent of Republicans disapprove. Its in line with how they view the pandemic. About  percent of surveyed Democrats characterized the pandemic as a significant crisis compared with  percent of Republicans.