New railway station in Xiongan set to start operations by end of this year
2020/6/24 9:21
Novak Djokovic jokes with Grigor Dimitrov during an Adria Tour doubles match in Belgrade, Serbia, on June . Both players have since tested positive for the novel coronavirus and the remainder of the tour has been canceled.  Djokovic among four players to test positive as concern grows for tennis August restart Novak Djokovic on Tuesday became the fourth player to test positive for the novel coronavirus after competing in his own Adria Tour exhibition event in Serbia and Croatia. The diagnosis comes as a major embarrassment for the Serbian world No whose wife Jelena also tested positiveand raises serious concerns for tennis governing bodies in their bid to restart the sport after a lengthy shutdown. The moment we arrived in Belgrade we went to be tested. My result is positive, just as Jelenas, while the results of our children are negative, Djokovic said in a statement. Earlier on Tuesday, Viktor Troicki said he and his pregnant wife have both been diagnosed with the virus, while Grigor Dimitrov said on Sunday he tested positive. Borna Coric played Dimitrov on Saturday in Zadar, Croatia, and said on Monday he had tested positive. The professional circuit was halted in early March as nations closed borders and imposed lockdowns to contain the spread of the virus. Last week the mens ATP and the WTA, which runs womens events, issued revised calendars for the resumption of the circuit from August while organizers of the US Open said the Grand Slam will be staged without fans as scheduled from Aug  to Sept  in New York. Those plans, however, may need to be redrawn after the four players positive tests. The players did not break any Serbian or Croatian government protocols as neither country required them to maintain any social distancing. However, the fact that four players and some support staff caught the virus highlights the risks of athletes from different countries being in close proximity to each other. I want to make sure anyone who has been in contact with me during the last few days gets tested, Coric, ranked No  in the world, said on Twitter. I am really sorry for any harm I might have caused. Im feeling well and dont have any symptoms. Troicki played in the first leg staged at Djokovics tennis complex in central Belgrade from June , before Dimitrov and Coric tested positive at the second leg in Zadar held from June . Troicki, , entered Janko Tipsarevics Eastern European Championship tournament which started in Belgrade last Monday and pulled out after learning that he and his wife tested positive. My wife took the test on Friday and I took it on Sunday after she tested positive, Troicki told Serbias Telegraf website. Our daughter tested negative. The ATP wished players and staff who tested positive a speedy recovery and urged strict adherence to responsible social distancing. The governing body added that it will implement a variety of precautions and protocols that would be adjusted as and when dictated by the latest medical information to ensure safety at events when the tour resumes on Aug . Bulgarian Dimitrov flew in to play in Djokovics event in Belgrade and the second leg, as did other top names like world No  Dominic Thiem of Austria and Germanys seventhranked Alexander Zverev. Organizers of other sports looking to resume from the coronavirus shutdown will be watching developments with some trepidation as they try to find the safest way of getting competition back underway. Fans watch the June  match between Novak Djokovic and Alexander Zverev at the Adria Tour charity tournament in Belgrade, Serbia, where COVID lockdown measures have been eased.  No social distancing The tournament witnessed packed stands during the opening leg in Belgrade, players hugging at the net, playing basketball, posing for pictures and attending media conferences together. Djokovic organized nights out in Belgrade for the players, with pictures and videos of him dancing with the other participants at his event posted on social media. Everything we did in the past month, we did with a pure heart and sincere intentions, Djokovic said. Our tournament meant to unite and share a message of solidarity and compassion throughout the region. With international tennis suspended, Djokovic organized the Adria Tour as a charity event to be contested over four legs. It was all born with a philanthropic idea, to direct all raised funds towards people in need and it warmed my heart to see how everybody strongly responded to this, Djokovic added. We organized the tournament at the moment when the virus has weakened, believing that the conditions for hosting the tour had been met. Unfortunately, this virus is still present, and it is a new reality that we are still learning to cope and live with. Djokovics fitness coach, Marco Panichi, also tested positive, Serbian daily Sportski Zurnal reported. Zverev, Marin Cilic and Andrey Rublevwho all played at the Adria Toursaid they tested negative for the virus but will follow selfisolation guidelines. Boneheaded decision to go ahead with the exhibition speedy recovery fellas, but thats what happens when you disregard all protocols. This IS NOT A JOKE, Australian player Nick Kyrgios said in a scathing social media post. American great Chris Evert also criticized the organizers, saying Total physical contact, no face masks, even the fans were without masks. I dont get it. Reuters