Digitalization key driver of SOE reform, economic growth
2020/6/24 8:53
Medical staff collects swab samples for workers from China Railway Engineering Group for novel coronavirus nucleic acid tests on the reconstruction project site of Beijing Fengtai Railway Station, on April , . Photo by Zou Hongchinadaily.com.cn On June , Beijing reported a new outbreak of novel coronavirus after  days of zero new cases. A yearold man surnamed Tang was the first among the new cases to test positive for the virus. He had neither left Beijing nor come in contact with anyone from outside the city over the previous  days. Tang was diagnosed with mild symptoms after having cycled to a nearby testing center. He had been to Beijings largest wholesale market, Xinfadi, which supplies about  percent of Beijings vegetables, fruits and meat. After the infections were confirmed, the government swung into action. Five days later, the government upgraded its COVID emergency response to level II. Schools, which had just reopened, were ordered closed again. About  percent of commercial flights in and out of Beijing were canceled, and people across China became wary of visitors from Beijing. Before that, on June , Beijing had lowered the COVID emergency response to level III. With the Chinese government having largely contained the coronavirus at home and offering help to other countries to fight the pandemic before the new outbreak, Beijing residents had come to believe that life was gradually returning to normal. Although people were still wearing face masks outdoors, they were flocking in large numbers to restaurants and other public places. And subway station officials and office building janitors seemed less paranoid about crowds. The new outbreak has changed all that, especially because Beijing authorities require individuals and organizations to strictly adhere to a set of nine topdown health and safety measures. To ensure Beijing does not become Wuhan ., the city government has locked down more than  neighborhoods including the Xinfadi market. If you go to a place near the Xinfadi market, you will get a text message instructing you to undergo a nucleic acid test, and you and your entire family would need to selfquarantine for  days. The authorities have already conducted nucleic acid tests on about . million residents, and are using big data and other highend technology to impose lockdown measures with precision down to the minutest detailsfrom streets and lanes to buildingswhich have enabled them to save the wider neighborhood and population from being unnecessarily locked down. Since March this year, in many places people entering a building or residential community has had to produce green health codes on their smartphones, so as to prove they had not left the city or visited any affected cluster during the past  days. From an individual, liberal perspective, this may be a kind of infringement on an individuals privacy and personal data, but during the health emergency, it seems acceptable for most people, not least because it is for public good. Based on their experience during the fight against the outbreak in the preceding months, residents have accepted the new norms to protect themselves and their families. People know that if they fall ill, they would burden the healthcare system as well as risk their families health. In this regard, governments in East Asian countries have an inherent advantage over their counterparts in the West, where individual liberty enjoys high priority. On June , Beijing released the genome sequencing of the virus strain detected at the Xinfadi market. Traces of the virus were found on the chopping boards used for cutting imported salmon and, although later the possibility of salmon infection was ruled out, sales of imported salmon have nosedived. Which raises the question Can fish or livestock carry the virus? In terms of speed and tenacity, Beijings actions have been immediate and robust. Yet while governments devise and implement prevention and control measures, peoples attitude and behavior play a key role in improving the overall solution. Countries such as Singapore, the Republic of Korea and New Zealand, too, have witnessed reemergence of outbreaks. And they too have reimposed stringent measures to contain the virus. Compared with most countries, the United States has been quickest to lift restrictions and resume economic activities, even though much of the country is still battling the first wave of infections. For example, on May , Ron DeSantis, governor of the US state of Florida, whose population is comparable to Beijings, announced the resumption of economic activities in a safe, smart and stepbystep manner despite the daily infection rate being around . Which makes it clear the US prioritizes opening of the economy over containing the pandemic, though it has recorded more than . million confirmed cases and over , deaths, both highest in the world and both increasing rapidly. Reopening businesses and schools does not mean the end of the pandemic. The duality between individual freedom and the cause of greater good, and between peoples lives and the health of the economy are challenges that governments and societies can navigate only by taking informed and wise decisions. Once the virus is contained, history will judge based on objective analyses which countries policies were most effective from an overall societal point of view. Ang Eng Guan is managing director of Taylor  Francis Group in China, and Asit K. Biswas is a distinguished visiting professor at the University of Glasgow, United Kingdom. The views are personal to the authors and dont necessarily reflect those of China Daily.