La Liga planning fan return to stadiums
2020/6/23 21:15
The Management Committee of Changsha Hightech Industrial Development Zone donated medical supplies to more than  countries to help fight against COVID. Hans Georg Ackermann is at far left.Photo provided to chinadaily.com.cn Hans Georg Ackermann, , a German who has lived in Central Chinas Hunan province for  years, has decided to live in Changsha for the rest of his life.?Photo provided to chinadaily.com.cn Hans Georg Ackermann, , a German who has lived in Central Chinas Hunan province for  years, has decided to live in Changsha for the rest of his life.?Photo provided to chinadaily.com.cn Hans Georg Ackermann, , a German who has lived in Chinas Hunan province for  years, has decided to live in Changsha for the rest of his life. Changsha is the safest place for me, he said, after experiencing the COVID outbreak in the city, the provincial capital of Central Chinas Hunan province. As an expert in electrical machinery and equipment manufacturing, Ackermann?is now a business consultant for Changsha Municipal Peoples Government and the Management Committee of the Changsha Hightech Industrial Development Zone. When China was hit hard by COVID earlier this year, his family asked him to return home to Germany. But he refused. I wont go, because Changsha is the safest place, he said, adding local government and his colleagues had given him enough care and support. They often asked me if I need some life supplies, like face masks, disinfectant and food. He also admires the countrys resolution and action to cope with the disease. Li Weimin, an official at the Management Committee of Changsha Hightech Industrial Development Zone, said Ackermann has been very supportive and cooperative. Many foreigners in Hunan were worried about themselves since the COVID outbreak started, but Hans told them they could believe in Chinas ability to get through the difficulties, Li said. During the epidemic, Ackermann often sent out encouraging posts on WeChat, a popular social media platform, to boost his friends morale to overcome the difficulties. He also provided psychological counseling for foreigners in Changsha. With the help of Ackermann and his son, who is a doctor in Germany, about , face masks were donated to Wuhan, which was then Chinas worsthit city in the COVID outbreak, according to Li. With his help, Changsha donated , medical masks to more than  countries to help fight against COVID.