Auto sales rebound for second straight month in May
2020/6/23 10:46
A number of State Council departments, including those responsible for postal services, reform and development, and copyright protection, have responded recently to issues of public concern. Health checks for delivery workers in COVID battle The State Post Bureau has urged the countrys courier service providers to bolster epidemic containment measures and step up health checks of their workers to help prevent and control the spread of the COVID pandemic. In a notice published on June , the bureau called on the express delivery businesses to bolster safety measures in key areas, with steps to sterilize business venues and ramp up management of workers. Businesses must offer safety education to workers and equip them with personal protection gear including masks, the bureau said. It highlighted the need to ensure delivery services to communities that have been placed under lockdown and guarantee the supply of materials and packages to residents. The whole express delivery sector must follow work protocols during the pandemic period and implement social distancing and regular sanitary measures, it added. The notice followed an uptick in novel coronavirus cases in Beijing and several other provinciallevel areas in recent weeks. Cuts to coal and steel capacity to meet targets China will continue to phase out its excess coal and steel production capacity and ensure that targets set for the th Five Year Plan  are met, a government notice said on Thursday. The notice, jointly issued by the National Development and Reform Commission and five other departments, said the country will move forward with the supplyside structural reform of the steel sector, accelerate the shedding of overcapacity and encourage the green and innovative development of the sector. The government will prohibit any increase in steel production capacity and prevent the reopening of production lines for substandard products, the notice said. Authorities must close coal mines that do not meet the countrys safety and environmental standards, and others should be cleaned up and cut inefficient production capacity, the notice said. The number of coal mines should be reduced to , or lessdown from , at the end of last yearand production by large mines should account for  percent of the countrys total output, the notice said. It also cautioned against planning new coal mines in national parks, reserves, tourist attractions and near protected water resources. Campaign targets online copyright infringements China has launched a nationwide campaign targeting copyright infringement and piracy on livestreaming and ecommerce platforms and on social media networks. The campaign, jointly launched by the National Copyright Administration and three other departments, will punish copyright infringements related to audiovisual works, including films, short videos, and those transmitted through streaming media. Ecommerce platforms will also come under scrutiny, the statement said, with harsh measures to be taken to curb online sales of pirated books, audiovisual products, electronic publications and other products. Regulators will also focus on fighting copyright infringements on social networking platforms, and in the field of online education and training. The crackdown, running from this month to October, is the th national campaign targeting online copyright infringement since . More efforts needed on renovation of rural toilets A government notice published on Friday called for greater efforts to encourage more farmers to renovate their toilets as part of the countrys broader effort to improve the living environment in rural areas. The notice, jointly released by the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Affairs and two other departments, said authorities must fully respect the wishes of farmers as they move forward with toilet renovation projects in rural areas. Authorities must minimize the impact of such projects on the normal life of farmers, it added, and come up with the right technological standards for rural toilets while avoiding sweeping approaches. Local governments must ensure proper maintenance arrangements are in place after renovation projects are completed, the notice said, adding that authorities must allocate appropriate funding to help maintain toilets. It is important to ensure that toilet renovation projects are pushed forward in step with the development of rural sewage treatment systems, it added.