US COVID deaths surpass , amid soaring new cases
2020/6/23 6:18
A medical staff member from Gregorio Maranon hospital holds a sign reading Take care of us, take care of them during a protest demanding better working conditions and in memory of victims of the coronavirus disease COVID, in Madrid, Spain, June , .  WASHINGTON  US COVID deaths surpassed , on Monday with nearly . million infections, while new cases continue to increase across the country over three months into the pandemic. A total of ,, cases were reported in the country with the fatalities reaching , as of  pm  GMT on Monday, according to a tally by Johns Hopkins University JHU. New York state reported , cases with , deaths. Other states with over , COVID deaths include New Jersey, Massachusetts, Illinois, Pennsylvania, Michigan, and California, showed the JHU data. Worldwide, COVID cases topped surpassed  million and the death toll from the virus was ,. In the United States, the virus spread has trended downward in some of the hardhit places including New York City, once the epicenter of the US COVID outbreak. The Big Apple entered phase two of reopening on Monday, during which hair salons, real estate sales, vehicle sales and rentals, some instore retails are allowed to reopen. Restaurants can serve customers in outdoor space, according to New York states phased reopening strategy. However, several US states in the South and Southwest are seeing upticks in their coronavirus case counts. As of Sunday, the nations sevenday average of new COVID cases increased more than  percent compared with a week ago, according to a CNBC analysis of JHU data. Cases were growing by  percent or more in  states across the United States, including Arizona, Texas, Florida and Oklahoma. According to a CNBC analysis of data compiled by the COVID Tracking Project, hospitalizations from COVID were growing in  states as of Sunday. In Texas, there were , people hospitalized with COVID based on a sevenday moving average, a  percent increase compared to a week ago. Arizona reported , people hospitalized on a sevenday average, a near  percent increase compared to a week ago. Were seeing a resurgence in the south and the southeast, they really never got rid of their epidemics, Scott Gottlieb, former commissioner for the Food and Drug Administration, told CBS News Face the Nation on Sunday. Calling the situation very unsatisfactory, Jeffrey Sachs, a renowned economics professor at Columbia University, recently told Xinhua that as the virus continues to spread rapidly, the federal government has basically lost interest in controlling the virus. The results are likely to be very bad a big resurgence of disease and deaths, said Sachs, also a senior United Nations advisor. Public health experts believe that states hasty efforts to reopen their economies, weeks of nationwide protests over the death of unarmed black man George Floyd, as well as some Americans unwillingness to practice social distancing or wear a mask, have all contributed to the recent surge in cases. Since late April, US states, facing record unemployment, have gradually started to reopen their economies, despite not seeing a significant downward trend in COVID infections and hospitalizations. An influential model produced by the Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation IHME at the University of Washington recently revised its projections, forecasting nearly , COVID deaths in the United States by Oct. . World Health Organization WHO DirectorGeneral Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus on Friday warned that the world has moved into a new and dangerous phase of the global coronavirus pandemic as countries have lifted lockdowns and other measures intended to curb the virus spread, and several have seen their rates of newly reported cases of the virus accelerate. Countries are understandably eager to open up their societies and their economies. But the virus is still spreading fast. It is still deadly and most people are still susceptible, he said.