COVID testing site built in  hours
2020/6/22 11:47
A sampling room of the makeshift program at the Peking Union Medical College Hospital. s Daily A site to collect samples for nucleic acid tests in a makeshift program has been built within  hours at the Peking Union Medical College Hospital, better improving the efficiency and working conditions for medical workers. The sampling site completed Sunday evening consists of eight sampling rooms, four billing rooms and two comprehensive service rooms. It is located at the northern square of the hospitals emergency department. Beijing has been carrying out a largescale nucleic acid testing after locally transmitted COVID cases were reported. Some openair places have been used as temporary sampling stations where medical workers have to wear protective suits and masks to work in high temperature environment. To meet the emergency needs of centralized largescale sampling in a short period, the Peking Union Medical College Hospital decided to build the makeshift sampling rooms on meterlong and Cmeterwide greenland. The hospital detailed and launched the program within  hours on June  and contacted producers on processing the makeshift rooms. Work on electricity supply and drainage pipes also started. When the makeshift rooms arrived at the site in early hours on Saturday, workers immediately installed the rooms and other supporting facilities, and the major infrastructure facilities were completed before sunrise. The makeshift sampling rooms are equipped with medical lighting system, and outdoor lighting system in case the rooms are used  hours a day. Each room has four doors and two windows to secure the ventilation and that medical workers are separated with others and they move in one direction. The construction project of nucleic acid testing shelter has been completed and approved. The shelter went into use on Monday. Leaders of the Peking Union Medical College Hospital inspect the construction site on June , . s Daily A truck carries the makeshift sampling rooms to the Peking Union Medical College Hospital, June , . s Daily Workers install the makeshift rooms at the Peking Union Medical College Hospital, June , . s Daily Workers install the makeshift rooms at the Peking Union Medical College Hospital, June , . s Daily Workers install the makeshift rooms at the Peking Union Medical College Hospital, June , . s Daily Workers install airconditioners to the makeshift rooms at the Peking Union Medical College Hospital, June , . s Daily