The world in photos June
2020/6/22 11:32
Here are some of the most striking images taken from around the world over the past week. Children look at penguins through an underwater viewer at ZSL the Zoological Society of London London Zoo on the first day of its reopening since lockdown restrictions eased in London, on June , .  Workers disinfect Congonhas Airport in Sao Paulo, Brazil, June , .  Customers wait for their dinner at a safe zone in a restaurant in Istanbul, Turkey, June , . An upscale restaurant in Sutluce on the European side of the city is making its customers feel relaxed inside of a safe zone, which looks like a bell jar, fully protected and sterilized against COVID.  A toy bear wearing a mask displays a sign reading Welcome! Dont forget your mask and hydro gel at a restaurant in Paris, June , .  A formation of the Royal Air Force Red Arrows and its French counterpart team La Patrouille de France flies above Buckingham Palace in London, on June , . British Prime Minister Boris Johnson and French President Emmanuel Macron held talks Thursday at  Downing Street, the first meeting between heads of state in Britain since the COVID pandemic started. The flypast was performed afterwards above London.  Children attend a provisional class organized by kindergarten teacher Juliet Namanda at her home in Kampala, capital of Uganda, June , . About  children of different ages are receiving lessons from the teacher as schools are closed nationwide as a preventive measure against the spread of the COVID.  Russian soldiers, wearing face masks and gloves to protect against coronavirus, walk along a street before the rehearsal for the Victory Day military parade in Moscow, June , . Russia is preparing for a military parade on June  to mark the th anniversary of the Soviet victory against the Nazis in World War II.  Tourists wearing face masks have fun on the first day of reopening for public at Dunia Fantasi Dufan in Ancol Dreamland Park complex, Jakarta, Indonesia, June , .  Protesters take part in a demonstration in Tulsa, Oklahoma, on June , . US President Donald Trump held his first rally in more than three months in Tulsa on Saturday evening, amid COVID concerns and a national reckoning over racism. There were multiple groups of demonstrators with varying viewpoints in the area adjacent to the rally.  A woman wearing a face mask amid the spread of the coronavirus disease COVID observes a partial solar eclipse on the Mahanakhon Skywalk Glass Tray at the King Power Mahanakhon building in Bangkok, Thailand, June , .  A shopper enters Selfridges department store in Oxford Street as it reopens in London, on June , . Although strict twometer distancing rules continued, customers queued to enter the doors of their favourite shops in England on the day. Oneway systems around shopping aisles were also introduced, with staff ensuring customers followed the rules.  Giant panda Ding Ding is seen at the Moscow Zoo in Moscow, capital of Russia, June , . Museums, exhibition halls and zoos in Moscow were allowed to reopen on Tuesday.  A passenger buys tickets at the BrusselsMidi station in Brussels, Belgium, June , . Belgium reopened its borders to and from the United Kingdom, European Union member countries and four other countries of the Schengen zone Iceland, Norway, Switzerland and Liechtenstein on June . 