Beijings delivery workers get tested to help ensure safe service in capital
2020/6/22 9:35
A taxi driver wearing a face mask drives in Tonekabon city, northern Iran, on June , .  CAIRO  The number of confirmed COVID cases approached , in Iran on Sunday, while Turkeys tally of coronavirus infections surpassed ,. Iran, which has reemerged as the hardesthit country by the COVID pandemic in the Middle East region, reported , new cases, taking the total number of infections to ,. The pandemic has so far claimed the lives of , Iranians, up by  in the past  hours. A total of , coronavirus patients have recovered, with , still in critical condition. Meanwhile, the total number of COVID cases in Turkey climbed to , after , new cases were reported, Turkish Health Minister Fahrettin Koca tweeted. The death toll from the coronavirus in the country rose to , after  new fatalities were added in the past  hours, he said, adding that , more patients recovered, raising the total recoveries to ,. Saudi Arabias coronavirus cases soared to , with , new cases. The kingdom also reported  new deaths and , more recovered patients, taking the death toll to , and the total recoveries to ,. The decision to lift anticoronavirus restrictions on all Saudi cities, including the return to normal of all economic and commercial activities, came into effect starting  a.m. on Sunday morning. In Qatar,  new cases of coronavirus infections were detected, bringing the total number to ,, of whom  have died and , recovered. Egypts coronavirus cases grew to , after , new infections were added. The Egyptian Health Ministry also reported  more deaths and  cases of recoveries, increasing the death toll to , and the total recoveries to ,. The United Arab Emirates UAE announced  new COVID cases and one more death, raising the tally of infections to , and the death toll to . The total number of recoveries from the virus in the UAE increased to , after  more fully recovered. Kuwait reported  new cases, bringing the countrys total number of infections to ,, of whom seven have died and , recovered. In Iraq, the tally of confirmed cases rose to , after , new coronavirus cases were registered. The country also reported  deaths from the coronavirus during the day, raising the death toll in Iraq to , while a total of , patients have recovered. Omans Ministry of Health announced  new infections, bringing the total number of COVID cases in the country to ,, including  deaths and , recoveries. Israel registered  new COVID cases, taking the tally of coronavirus infections to ,. The deaths from the virus in Israel increased by one to  while the recoveries rose to ,. It is worth noting that the active cases in the country rose to ,, the highest since May , and the number of hospitalized COVID patients has doubled since early June to reach . On the same day, Israels health ministry ordered hospitals in the country to reopen coronavirus units immediately amid a new surge of COVID cases. Algeria said that  more cases of infections were confirmed, taking the tally of infections to ,, while the death toll hit . In Morocco, the total number of COVID cases increased to , after  new infections were added, which included  fatalities and , recoveries. Morocco announced on the day that it will relax travel restrictions inside the country and allow cafes and restaurants to reopen without exceeding  percent of their capacities as of June . Shopping malls, commercial centers, leisure and entertainment stores will also open in the country. In Lebanon, the number of COVID infections increased by  to ,, while the death toll remained unchanged at . Jordan registered  more infections, bringing the total coronavirus cases to ,, including nine deaths and  recoveries. Palestine reported  new COVID cases in the West Bank, bringing the total number of infections in the Palestinian territories to ,, including  recoveries and five deaths. In the meantime, the total number of coronavirus cases in Yemens governmentcontrolled provinces increased to  with  new cases. The number of recoveries in the governmentcontrolled areas, including the southern port city of Aden, surged to  and the death toll climbed to .