Africa draws closer at virtual trade fair
2020/6/22 9:08
A staff member of All Nippon Airways wearing a protective mask and a face shields works at a checkin counter amid the COVID outbreak at Haneda airport in Tokyo, Japan June , .  The COVID pandemic has had a big impact on security in the AsiaPacific, and countries in the region need to form a broader collaboration mechanism to tackle the challenges presented, experts who took part in an online forum said. Security and cooperation dialogue among Asian countries, such as China, Japan, the Republic of Korea and India, is needed for the stability in Asia and cooperation after COVID, said Surakiart Sathirathai, deputy prime minister of Thailand from  to . The video discussion was part of the  World Peace Forum virtual conference held by Tsinghua University in Beijing on Tuesday and Wednesday. The pandemic has diminished multilateralism and international collaboration, including that conducted in the United Nations system, but has promoted regional collaboration to some extent, Sathirathai said. For example, regional organizations had been setting up mechanisms to help each other deal with COVID since last month, he said. Developing regionalism can help promote multilateral collaboration and discourage unilateralism, and regional organizations should be strengthened to play a more important role for peace dialogue, fostering postCOVID collaboration, he said. Regionalization of multilateralism is the way forward for peace, security and economic cooperation. It is multilateralism that will lead all of us to a shared future of mankind. COVID has drawn the worlds attention to food and health security, changing peoples perceptions of regional security, he said. Technology for food safety, medical supplies and medicine development will be the focuses of regional cooperation in the future. Accordingly, major powers should strengthen the architecture to increase dialogue in the areas of food, health, security and economic recovery. Shivshankar Menon, a former Indian diplomat, said the pandemic had accelerated the threat to security in the AsiaPacific region, such as decoupling and reversing globalization, and stoking competition between major powers. Increasing pressures The pandemic has diminished all of the major powers, putting leadership under increasing external and internal pressures, said Menon, who was Indias national security adviser from  to . All countries now face heavier economic, political and other pressures, making it more difficult for them to deal with security issues, he said. In addition, a bilateral or multilateral security structure in the AsiaPacific region in the near future had become more unlikely. Menon echoed Sathirathais opinion on the definition of regional security and suggested expanding its range to a broader one, as the pandemic has involved more nontraditional security issues, such as climate change and hygiene. He called for issuebased coalitions within the region because it would be impossible to build a single architecture within which to deal with all issues, especially nontraditional issues that would require collaborative solutions. He Yafei, a former Chinese viceminister of foreign affairs, outlined several key points that should be put on top of the security threat list for the AsiaPacific region. Any possible deterioration of tension among major powers needs to be prevented because it could lead to military confrontation, he said, suggesting that crisis management or dialogue within a consultation mechanism to deal with crises has to be put in place.