Irans COVID cases nudge , as Turkeys tally exceeds ,
2020/6/22 0:00
Carlos Ortiz headed for dinner near the Harbour Town lighthouse in Hilton Head Island, South Carolina and it felt like old times, which didnt necessarily mean good times. This idyllic island is a summer destination, even during the COVID pandemic. Its a minute wait, and once you get in there, theres no social distancing, packed tables right next to each other, kids running around, Ortiz said on Saturday at the RBC Heritage. We were impressed how nobody was wearing a mask. We talked about it on Tuesday when we saw it. We were like, Oh, somebodys going to get corona here. Its crazy how busy it is in here inside the island. Three days later, Nick Watney became the first PGA Tour player to test positive for the coronavirus. The tour put in motion part of its plan to handle such a result, starting with  additional tests for anyone who might have come in close contact with Watney. The initial tests all came back negativeincluding Tony Navarro, his caddie, and Vaughn Taylor, who played with Watney on Thursday. Golf made it through  days of its return before getting a positive test. The question now becomes whos next, or how many more, before the show cant go on. Rory McIlroy, who revealed he was not one of the  people tested for coronavirus on Friday despite an encounter with Watney at the tournament, says sheer numbers made it virtually impossible to think no one in golf would test positive. He was not part of the contact tracing because we kept our distance on the putting green. Were still in the middle of a pandemic, McIlroy said. I think weve done really well to start golf again and get back up and play golf tournaments. I dont think anyone was blind to the fact that someone could catch the virus, and its a shame Nick did. But as I said, its one case. And as long as its contained to that and we move forward, we can keep playing. More stories emerged of a South Carolina resort that was busy as ever, even though fans arent allowed on the golf course. The tournament is typically played in April, the week after the Masters, when school is still in session. With the pandemic shutting down golf for three months, the RBC Heritage originally was canceled, and then moved to June after the Canadian Open was canceled and the US Open was moved to September. Even if you wanted to go somewhere, theres no place to go, Joel Dahmen said. We tried to rent bikes this week, and theyre sold out. Watney missed the cut last week at Colonial in Fort Worth, Texas, and drove home to Austin before flying to South Carolina with Sergio Garcia, who also lives in Austin. He tested negative when they arrived, and according to McIlroy and Garcia, what led Watney to report symptoms was data on his Whoop strap that measures such metrics as heart rate, sleep and recovery. So it was his Whoop that told him his respiratory rate went up, and thats why he thought, Maybe I could have it, McIlroy said. Garcia also was tested again on Friday and said he was nervous waiting fourplus hours for the result. He said Watney apologized to him probably  times and that in his text exchanges, Watney said he is feeling fine. Now, the yearold Watney must selfisolate for at least  days. Ap ?