Absurd bill on Xinjiang reveals US true face of human rights violator
2020/6/20 16:42
A vendor shows newly sliced fruits at a night fair in Hotan, Northwest Chinas Xinjiang Uygur autonomous region, May , .  BEIJING  When the United States signed a bill on Chinas Xinjiang into law, the mask of the socalled democracy and human rights defender slipped, and Washingtons face showing hegemony and human rights violations emerged. The socalled Uyghur Human Rights Policy Act of , based on hearsay, fabrication, and distorted reporting, maligns the hardwon antiterrorism and antiextremism achievements in Xinjiang Uygur autonomous region and the condition of human rights there. The act blatantly violates international law and basic norms governing international relations, and is a gross interference in Chinas internal affairs. Anyone who respects the facts can see that through efforts including establishing vocational education and training centers in Xinjiang and fighting terrorism and extremism in accordance with law, the frequent incidents of terrorist activities have been effectively curbed and peoples rights to life, health and development safeguarded. The region will eliminate absolute poverty this year along with the rest of the country. Since , more than , new urban jobs have been added annually, with a registered urban unemployment rate below . percent. Peoples health has been guaranteed during the COVID epidemic, with no confirmed cases reported for more than four months. Normal religious activities have been protected in accordance with the law. People enjoy the right to use their ethnic languages and inherit their cultures. Xinjiang is in its best period of development, with people of different ethnic groups and religious beliefs living together as equals, enjoying unity and harmony, and leading a peaceful and stable life. The Chinese government is fully justified in making allout efforts to eradicate the root causes of extremism, violent terrorism and separatism to make sure the time when people lived in the shadow of fear, poverty and death will never come back. The enactment of the U.S. bill, however, backs terrorist and extremist forces. The real intention of the act is to sow discord among the ethnic groups in China, harm Xinjiangs prosperity and stability, and contain Chinas development. It is a stain on conscience and justice. Using Xinjiangrelated issues as a tool to pursue selfish gains at the expense of other countries peace and development interests, the selfproclaimed human rights defender has become a stumbling block in the way of the cause of international human rights. Ironically, on the day the bill was signed, the United Nations Human Right Council began an urgent debate on the current racially inspired human rights violations, systemic racism, police brutality and violence against peaceful protesters, in the followup to the killing of George Floyd in the United States. More than half a century has passed when Martin Luther King Jr expressed his dream, but AfricanAmericans are all still struggling to breathe. A wave of massive protests has surged in the United States. Besides its longexisting and deeprooted racism and inequalities, the United States has seen a widening income gap, rising unemployment, and more than , innocent lives lost in the COVID outbreak because of the administrations inadequate response. At a time when the United States should really focus on addressing its own human rights problems, the enactment of the bill on Xinjiang only reveals how irresponsible, hypocritical and fingerpointing politicians could put human rights in peril. Nothing more than a piece of paper full of lies, ColdWar mentality and political prejudice, the act belongs in a garbage dump.