Masks, health monitoring among measures to curb virus at emgaokaoem
2020/6/20 9:00
Editors note As mass protests sweep across the US, the UN Human Rights Council UNHRC held a urgent debate Wednesday on alleged systemic racism and police brutality in the country, in response to a request by more than  African countries. Is the US a defender of human rights? Readers share their opinions. GhostBuster The US professes and proclaims its human rights! COVID shows the real plain and painful truth! Being a US citizen and white does not necessary qualify your entitlement to medical treatment during this pandemic  you must be powerful and rich. Otherwise, you have nothing to fall back on! Fortunately, the real rich or wealthy flew out during pandemic to their own shelters with a carefree style of life! This is the US  this is LIFE! A nurse wearing personal protective equipment watches an ambulance driving away outside of Elmhurst Hospital during the ongoing outbreak of the coronavirus disease COVID in the Queens borough of New York, US, April , .  Seagull American politicians always point fingers to other countries human rights. They dont authentically care about the real fact that the people live in happiness or misery. Instead, they use it as a tool to create confusion, opposition or conflict, in order to get their profits or aims. A woman demands gun control during a protest in El Paso, Texas, the United States, on Aug  last year, after a shooting that left  dead.   The US, who is always advocating for equality and protecting other regions and holding high the flag of human rights, is politicizing the virus and exploiting the critical challenge to fight for political interests. They wasted a great opportunity to prepare for the pandemic. They ignored peoples health and safety. People wait for a distribution of masks and food in the Harlem neighborhood of New York, US, April , .  CrawlingSnail Police brutality is the direct cause of the killing of Floyd. Black people in US have been treated badly for such a long time. Even though slavery and segregation have long being abolished, widespread discrimination and exploitation made black people in US more vulnerable and disadvantageous than the white majority. There is still a long way to fight for equality and freedom in US for the vast number of black people. A member of the Houston Police Department faces protesters at a rally against the death in Minneapolis police custody of George Floyd, in Houston, Texas, US June , .  sunshine LQ To be frank, I initially thought that America is a good and highly free country, where people have many rights and live happily. But because of many things, I changed my mind. Racial discrimination has become deeply rooted in the minds of white Americans. I want to say, the world consists of all kinds of people, and because of this, this world is so fantastic. We are all equal, and white people certainly are not more noble than black or Asian people. Double standards and indulgence will only lead to self harm in the end. Ethnicity should not be the reason that causes you feel shameful. Lets advocate against racism. After all, we are waves of the same sea, leaves of the same tree, flowers of the same garden. Work together for a better future! Arthur McCray places American flags in front of the Fountain of Praise church where services will be held for George Floyd on June ,  in Houston, Texas.  ArkOne The US is using human rights as an agenda in its political tools of foreign policy to suppress any countries to submit to them. The US itself is violating human rights and no one is pointing a finger at them. Why? Because no one has the guts to do it. But if you wanted to champion human rights, please clean up your backyard first before telling others what to do. US troops patrol at an Afghan National Army Base in Logar province, Afghanistan, on Aug , .  meteor In the face of the epidemic, the freedom and human rights that the United States has been talking about all this time seem to have dissipated. Racial discrimination is serious. Black peoples human rights have been violated, but there is no place to complain. Instead of denigrating China, its better to reflect on whether you really make a difference! George Floyds brother, Philonise Floyd, reacts while testifying during the US House Judiciary Committee hearing on Policing Practices and Law Enforcement Accountability on Capitol Hill in Washington, DC, US June , .  ?