Trudeau announces national contact tracing app against COVID pandemic
2020/6/19 10:31
? Canadas Prime Minister Justin Trudeau speaks during a sitting of the special committee on the coronavirus disease COVID outbreak at the House of Commons on Parliament Hill in Ottawa, Ontario, Canada, June , .  OTTAWA  Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau announced Thursday that his government will begin testing a mobile contact tracing app against the COVID pandemic in the country. The app will compile confirmed positive COVID cases and notify Canadians when theyve been in proximity to someone who has the virus. The Trudeau government intends to make the app available for download in early July and that the program will be compatible with the  million smartphones in Canada. I want to stress that this will be completely voluntary. It will be up to individual Canadians to decide whether to download the app or not. But the app will be most effective when as many people as possible have it, Trudeau said at his Thursday press conference in Ottawa. Trudeau said the case monitoring and exposure notification application is a crucial public health step as more Canadians begin resuming some semblance of normal life, including returning to work. Itll actually allow us to have a better sense of when there are spikes or resurgences of a virus in a particular area or not because more people will be getting that notification and calling their local public health authorities, so any level of uptake would be useful, Trudeau said, adding that he hopes Canadians view the app as an easy added layer of protection. The Public Health Agency of Canada on Thursday recommended wearing a nonmedical mask or facecovering in public places, especially crowded ones, when physical distancing of two meters from other people isnt possible to do consistently. Such places include stores, shopping areas and public transportation. As of Thursday afternoon, Canada reported , confirmed COVID cases and , deaths, according to CTV.