First patient helps capital get jump on coronavirus
2020/6/19 10:09
Xinfadi agricultural products wholesale market is closed on June . Photo by Wu Xiaohuichinadaily.com.cn Since the cluster of novel coronavirus infections emerged in Beijing last week, one local man has become wellknownnot only because he was the first confirmed case in this outbreak but also thanks to his great memory, he has contributed much to narrowing down the sources of infection. The man, surnamed Tang, , has reported every place he visited since May  and provided a list of  people with whom he had close contact in the two weeks before he was diagnosed with the disease on June . Tang has been praised as having the most powerful brain by netizens. His memory is really good. I cant even remember what I ate yesterday, said a Sina Weibo user named Eikuaidaowanlilai, while another said Tang is a responsible person compared with some who still walk around while experiencing fever and other symptoms of COVID. Tang, a resident of Beijings Xicheng district, has been dubbed Uncle Xicheng. Miu Jianhong, deputy head of the district, said Tang wore his face mask during his visit to a doctor on June  after riding a bicycle to a hospital. He had an intermittent fever that day. That Tang voluntarily reported his symptoms and went to hospital by bike is important to protect other people, Wu Hao, an expert at the Committee of Experts on Disease Prevention and Control of the National Health Commission, told China Central Television. Tangs accurate description of his visit to Beijing Xinfadi wholesale market on June  proved to be important for authorities to determine that the market was a source of infection. The market, in southwest Beijings Fengtai district, was found to be related to cases confirmed in the capital since June . As of Wednesday, Beijing had reported  confirmed COVID patients. Among a dozen activities Tang listed outside his home since May , he said he went to the markets underground area to buy seafood and meat on June . A child in my family wanted to eat fish. Thats why I went to Xinfadi that day, Tang said when Beijing TV interviewed him at a hospital ward on Wednesday. Tangs activities could also be verified through big data analysis, which can also show where highrisk people who need to be tested are located after a description is verified. This is a very efficient methodology while we race against the virus, Wu said.