Medical workers feel the heat
2020/6/18 0:00
American and United airlines say they will place passengers who refuse to wear a face mask on an internal travel restriction list and bar them from future flights for an indeterminate period. In moves that began on Tuesday at American and will apply from Thursday at United, passengers who do not wear a mask could be flagged for each airlines list of restricted flyers, possibly causing them to be barred from flying with the carrier again, the carriers said on Monday. United offered slightly more details in announcing its policy, saying that the travel prohibition would last for a period of time that will be determined by the company after a comprehensive incident review. The trade group Airlines for America said its other member carriers, which include Alaska, Delta, Hawaiian, JetBlue and Southwest, will be implementing stricter facemask rules, including possible bans for passengers who dont follow the rules. American and United required the use of face masks for passengers and crew last month and said the new rule would be enforced for at least the next  days. We have been requiring our customers to wear masks onboard United aircraft since May  and we have been pleased that the overwhelming majority of passengers readily comply with our policy, said Toby Enqvist, Uniteds chief customer officer. Formal review Under the new policy, flight attendants will ask a passenger without a face mask to don one and offer a mask if needed. If the passenger refuses to wear a mask, the flight attendant will note the incident, and a formal review will begin. Willful refusal to wear a mask can mean the passenger will be prohibited from traveling on United for a yettobedetermined period, the airline said. Wearing a mask is a critical part of helping make air travel safer, said James Merlino, chief clinical officer at the Cleveland Clinic. The more people in a given space wearing masks, the fewer viral particles are making it into the space around them, decreasing exposure risk. Requiring masks for passengers is part of the effort by airlines to convince customers that air travel is safe and lure them back after the coronavirus shutdowns. In April, air travel plunged about  percent from the same period a year ago based on the number of passengers screened at airports by the US Transportation Security Administration. Analysts believe it could take  to  months for commercial and recreational air travel to return to prepandemic levels. Many people have been apparently opting for a staycation, or remaining at home rather than traveling during vacation. scottreeveschinadailyusa.com ?