Chinese businesses support African countries in epidemic fight
2020/6/17 16:11
Chinese Enterprises of Commerce in Liberia donates a batch of medical supplies and food to help the Liberian government stop the spread of the COVID epidemic.  Africa Online Chinese business companies have stood firmly behind African countries in the fight against COVID, with both Stateowned enterprises and private companies becoming vital forces. Chinese Enterprises of Commerce in Liberia donated a batch of medical supplies and food to help the Liberian government stop the spread of the epidemic. Donations, including  bags of rice,  handwashing buckets and  cartons of bleach, were handed over to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Frontpage Africa Online reported Monday. The institution is committed to developing economic and trade cooperation between Chinese enterprises and the government of Liberia, as well as the business community, said Sun Yongbo, president of China Enterprises Chamber of Commerce in Liberia. Chinese enterprises have created many employment opportunities in Liberia, covering several sectors, such as construction, mining, fisheries and agriculture, Sun added. Faced with the sudden attack of COVID, China and Africa have been supporting each other and making concerted efforts, said Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying at a press conference on Friday. According to a communique issued on Saturday by the African Union, China has ensured the supply of  million testing kits, , ventilators and  million masks each month for Africa. China Airport Construction Group Corp donates medical supplies to help Togo fight against the COVID. .gov.cn China Airport Construction Group Corp donated , medical masks to Togo on May , devoting efforts to provide support and help to the African country. A representative from the government thanked the Chinese side for donating the COVID pandemic response commodities, which are greatly needed in Togo. It demonstrated that Chinese enterprises are taking on more social responsibility and the friendship between Togo and China is becoming closer and closer. Last month, Cosco Shipping Africa Inc also donated , medical masks and  bottles of hand wash gel to Transnet, South Africas national freight and logistics group, to support local port enterprises to fight against COVID. Shipping enterprises are a key part of global logistics chain, Zhou Ronghua, general manager of the Container Management Department of Cosco Shipping Africa, said, adding that the company will carry on its social responsibility and join hands with local people in fighting the virus. Reagent and testing equipment manufacturer Sansure Biotech Inc, a Hunan, Changshabased biotech company, also responded in a timely manner to help African countries fight COVID. The company adopted video calling to help African peers solve training problems and provide technical guidance. Africas confirmed COVID cases surpassed the ,mark to reach , with , deaths as of Tuesday afternoon, maintaining a mortality rate far below the global average. The continents antiepidemic efforts have achieved betterthanexpected results, thanks to strict preventive measures, a young population and COVID cooperation with China, according to a Xinhua report.