American, United airlines toughen face mask rules
2020/6/17 9:09
Families of children with special educational needs are facing great challenges after the new school semester was postponed as a result of the outbreak of the novel coronavirus. The epidemic has affected tuition for children and young adults with disabilities during home quarantine as well as the mental health of their parents, according to a survey launched by the special education department of the School of Education at Guangzhou University in Guangdong province. Nearly , parents in major cities in Guangdong participated in the survey, according to a report released by the university in March. The students, ages  to , mostly have mental disabilities or autism. The results showed that the most common problems parents face are the mood swings their children experience during isolation at home, which appeared among  percent of respondents. Other major problems for children include a desire to leave the family home and a reluctance to wear face masks and wash their hands frequently. Medical knowledge, emotional adjustment, and social support and guidance on parenting were the top four needs of such parents. Nearly  percent have taught their children to express uncomfortable feelings verbally and to recognize and use disinfectants. Eightysix percent of those surveyed showed a positive attitude to online classes at home. That suggests that distance learning could be applied to regular special education when the epidemic finally ends. However, the survey showed that  percent of parents knew little about online education channels. About  percent of parents paid more attention to language, recognition of the epidemic and home quarantine in terms of their childrens recovery training. Meanwhile, more than half were seeking guidance on child psychology, management of emotions, social skills and modification of behavior. Limited training methods were their top concern, along with childrens noncooperation and a lack of teaching equipment, the survey said. It also revealed the mental health problems of parents of children with SEN. More than  percent conceded that they had experienced mediumtohigh level feelings of anxiety.