Two meters seen as a business killer
2020/6/17 9:01
A boy with autism works on school assignments at home in Hong Kong. He has a younger brother who also has autism. CHINA DAILY More than , children have learned to live with the epidemic. Li Bingcun reports from Hong Kong. While much of the world remains locked down amid the novel coronavirus pandemic, life carries on at more than  schools for students with special educational needs in Hong Kong. More than  of about , such students in the city continue to live at their schools, and the only thing that seems to have changed is that the teachers and caregivers all wear face masks. Fong Sheungwan, principal of Hong Chi Pinehill No  School in Tai Po district, conceded that the situation is stressful for staff members, but said it would be much worse for the children if the security of familiarity were taken away. We know we cant give into the stress. The students need our help, Fong said. The children still sleep in their dormitories, attend classes and play with their friends during the day. Initially, Hong Kongs other educational establishments, from kindergartens to secondary schools and even some special institutions, closed indefinitely. However, students at some regular schools began returning to classes on May . Special schools that offer residential services, such as Fongs, remain open for children in need. Hong Kong has  governmentaided schools for children with SEN, who mostly have physical or intellectual impairments. Fongs school provides services for  students with severe intellectual disabilities, although  returned home after the virus emerged in the city in late January. Most of those who have stayed have specific needs. Some are unable to speak, while others are unable to walk in a normal way. They need help with almost everything eating showering using the toilet and even sleeping. Many have complex medical issues. Some have to be fed through tubes, while many have weakened natural immunity owing to chronic and unstable health. Vulnerabilities SEN students are quite vulnerable, especially to largescale outbreaks of illness, Fong said. That helps to explain why life at the school has to carry on in the face of every crisis, from typhoons to the outbreak of severe acute respiratory syndrome in . Compared with other challenges, the coronavirus outbreak is extra tough because of its lengthy duration. The risk of infection on the campus is high. Dozens of students live together around the clock in a relatively confined space and they are in close contact with staff members, who come to help every day. The school requires staff members to wear face masks all the time at work and to change them frequently. Meanwhile, all the places visited by students are disinfected every day. All students are required to adhere to social distancing guidelines during group exercises, and they have been separated into two groups that alternate in undertaking regular activities. The students temperatures are measured six times a day, while their activities are closely monitored, including the amount of water they drink and even how often they turn over in bed. Staff shortages are a chronic problem at SEN schools, especially places like Hong Chi Pinehill No  School, where some students have severe intellectual impairments and always require caregivers with specific expertise and a great deal of patience. Now, things have become even tougher. Sixteen house parents are responsible for the  students, and the most severely affected children need more than one caregiver. Dining and bathing times can become nightmares, so cleaners are sometimes drafted in to help. Theres no stable supply of protective gear. The school has to compete with everybody else in the city for sanitizers, disinfectants and medical alcohol. In February, panicbuying of itemsespecially toilet rollsleft the school with just two weeks supply. Face masks remain the most urgent requirement. The  staff members use  a day, but the supply is limited. A dormitory activity room at a special school designed for students with disabilities CHINA DAILY Collective ordeal Leung Winghung, chairman of the Hong Kong Special Schools Councilan organization that represents all such schools in the citysaid the situation at Hong Chi Pinehill No  School is being repeated in local schools. According to Leung, more than  special schools that provide dormitory services for students have maintained operations during the pandemic. Some dormitories for children with severe intellectual impairments have retained  to  percent of their residents, while the others have kept  to  percent. Leung said that in addition to shortages of staff members and protective gearproblems faced by all special schoolssome establishments have extra challenges. During normal times, most students at residential schools return home for weekends and spend the Spring Festival holiday with their families. This year, some children left the city during Spring Festival, which meant the schools had to implement additional quarantine measures when they returned. Some schools were affected by the governments border control restrictions, which are intended to contain the spread of the disease. Since Feb , most people entering Hong Kong from the Chinese mainland have been required to stay home under a mandatory day quarantine regulation. Some students whose parents live on the mainland have not been able to return and have been forced to remain at their family homes. That presents a special problem. Some of the students need medicines that are hard to obtain on the mainland. Express companies refuse to handle crossborder deliveries of medication, so schools have had to depend on parents who need to visit the mainland or ask crossborder truck drivers to deliver medication to students, Leung said. Parental challenges Though the outbreak poses a collective ordeal for schools, families have been left with individual problems on top of everything else. Wong Hoiman has two sons with autism. One, a yearold whose intelligence is unimpaired, studies at a regular school, while the other, an yearold with mild intellectual disability, attends a special school. All the citys nontertiary schools suspended classes in late January, and the resumption date has been pushed back several times. The issue is the same for every schoolage child, but it is especially troubling for SEN children. They need more time to adapt to change, Wong said, noting that the problem is most evident in her younger son. The boy, who has been stuck at home for several months, loses his temper frequently, cries a lot and sometimes hits himself. While his older brother is taking online lessons, the younger boy often shouts or creates other disturbances. That makes it hard for his brother, because if he misses something during a lesson he has no way of catching up later. Most parents dont even know how they are supposed to help their children at home. Without a timetable or dedicated learning environment, the children have difficulty concentrating. Wong tries to help her sons by setting timetables, which she makes them follow. She does what she can, hoping she can teach the boys something by playing games with them. She acknowledges that shes no teacher, but she hopes her efforts to adapt toys and even the furniture into learning tools will at least provide some progress. She is concerned about the possible longterm effect the situation will have on the boys physical and mental health, and is also concerned that they may take a long time to reacclimatize when classes resume. Impact on therapy Therapeutic services for SEN children are among the many nonemergency medical services that have been suspended during the lockdown. Leung said things have to be that way because the services require close contact between therapists and children, which poses a higher risk of infection. However, he warned about the consequences of suspending the services. The therapieswhich involve physical coordination, communication skills and management of emotionsare meant to help the young people adapt to their world in the hope they will be able to live independently someday. A lengthy suspension may cause setbacks, meaning even more time will be required for the students to adapt, Leung said. He added that it is especially difficult for final year students because most of them will soon be entering the workforce. He said schools will intensify training when classes resume, which will mean inviting therapists to visit more frequently and prolong the treatment. He hopes parents will play their part and not simply rely on therapists and schools to make the difference. Parents can help with simple exercises to improve balance and physical strength, he said. However, he has noticed that despite the video guidance given by schools, many parents seem troubled. They might be concerned that they cant do it well, or simply feel it is too troublesome to take the time. But they have to realize that they are the ones closest to their children, whether theres a pandemic or not, Leung said.