Railway helps Eurasia resume trade flows
2021/8/17 9:56
A ChinaEurope Railway Express freight train departs from Dongguan, Guangdong province, for Moscow in January. Photo provided to China Daily Last year, system saw , trips made, up  yearonyear The rapid development of the ChinaEurope Railway Express freight train service has been playing an increasingly important role in promoting Chinas new dualcirculation development pattern, while also contributing to stabilizing international logistics and supply chains, according to industry insiders. Chinas pursuit of the new dualcirculation development pattern, which takes the domestic market as the mainstay and lets domestic and foreign markets reinforce each other, is in turn also boosting the development of freight train services that connect Asia and Europe, they said. Data from China State Railway Group Co Ltd showed that as of July , the freight trains served  cities in  European countries and recorded more than , trips since the service was launched in . In , the freight trains made , trips, up  percent yearonyear. During the first half, the service handled , trips, up  percent yearonyear, and carried about , twentyfoot equivalent unit TEU containers of goods during the JanuaryJune period. Moreover, around , metric tons of antiCOVID supplies were sent via the route as of late June. The ChinaEurope freight train service offers a reliable transportation and logistics alternative on the Eurasian continent with advantages such as high efficiency, said Li Guanpeng, chairman of Sinotrans Ltd, one of the largest logistics companies in China, which owns more than , subsidiaries in China covering  provinciallevel regions and  overseas operations in  foreign countries and regions as at the end of . The service secures and strengthens industrial and supply chain operations, delivers crucial medical, daily and industrial supplies to related economies, and potentially enhances international trade facilitation and efficiency, while boosting Chinas international economic and trade operations with foreign countries, Li said, adding that with the nations pursuit of the new dualcirculation development pattern and domestic market expansion, the freight train service will also play a growing role in highquality imports to meet Chinese peoples increasing demand for a better life. Based on the ChinaEurope freight train service, Sinotrans has established an integrated waterrail multimodal transportation service network, which combines sea and railway freight, and not only runs across China to Europe in different directions, but also connects with Chinas neighboring markets such as Japan, South Korea and the Association of Southeast Asian Nations. During the th FiveYear Plan period , thanks to the freight train service on the Eurasian continent, the company operated an accumulated , trips, carrying , TEU containers of goods, with the compound annual growth rate reaching  percent. The company has launched about  freight train routes, and  are operated weekly, covering major logistics corridors and hubs around the nation. Among the , ChinaEurope or ChinaAsia freight train trips the company operated last year, , were made by ChinaEurope freight trains, which carried , TEU containers of goods, up  percent yearonyear. As the COVID pandemic disrupts sea and air freight channels and takes a toll on international logistics and supply chains, reliable and efficient transportation of various resources via ChinaEurope freight trains has become even more important to support resumption of business and production in several economies, thus contributing to the international fight against the pandemic and stabilizing global industry and supply chains, Li said. During the pandemic, Sinotrans launched special freight train routes connecting Shenyang, Liaoning province, with Moscow and Madrid to transport antipandemic supplies and ambulances, while providing tailored logistics services for major domestic manufacturing enterprises such as SANY Heavy Industry Co Ltd, Midea Group and Geely, to help them secure supply chains and timely fulfilment of overseas orders. With its rapid development over the years, the ChinaEurope freight train service has been extending to an increasing number of economies, benefiting more people around the world, said Feng Xubin, chairman of YXE Trading Service Group, a major ChinaEurope Railway Express operating platform. The freight service also facilitates the entry of products made by small and mediumsized enterprises in Europe and neighboring economies into Chinas huge market, demonstrating Chinas firm stance on openingup, Feng said. An aerial view of a railway depot in Dongguan, Guangdong province, in July. The depot is the point of origin for freight trains bound for Europe. Photo provided to China Daily Data from the General Administration of Customs showed imports and exports moved by the companys ChinaEurope freight train service were worth . billion yuan . billion in the first five months, surging  percent yearonyear. Imports reached . billion yuan, with a yearonyear increase of  times. Moreover, antipandemic supplies such as masks, protective gear and thermometers carried by the companys freight trains to countries such as Spain, Germany, Poland and Russia, totaled  TEU containers last year, with a combined weight of . tons. Feng said the ChinaEurope Railway Express freight train service, which experienced rapid growth in both quantity and quality, was seen as opening up a cargo lifeline during the pandemic. By early this year, YXE had developed  international freight train routes from Yiwu, Zhejiang province, with service to and from Asia and Europe. The ChinaEurope freight train service operated by YXE made , trips as at the end of , carrying more than , TEU containers of goods, with an average annual growth rate exceeding  percent. The company has operated  ChinaEurope freight train trips this year as of July , among which  were Chinabound carrying , TEU containers, up almost  times yearonyear. COSCO Shipping Logistics Co Ltd also saw robust increases in demand for its freight services related to ChinaEurope freight trains in the past few years. The companys ChinaEurope freight train operations delivered , TEU containers of goods in , up . percent yearonyear. And in , the volume surged by . percent from a year earlier to hit , TEU containers of goods. ChinaEurope Railway Express freight train services are a marked achievement of Belt and Road Initiative cooperation, and Chinas new dualcirculation development strategy has also propelled its rapid growth, especially in the ChinaEurope freight trainbased integrated freight sector, COSCO Shipping Logistics said. The target customers of the freight train service are mainly concentrated in the midtohighend manufacturing sector that see high demand for stable supply chains, and are becoming diversified over time, according to the company. Since the outbreak of the pandemic, the surge in sea freight charges and reduction in capacity have especially highlighted the importance of the ChinaEurope freight train service, and COSCO Shipping has established a special team to develop integrated freight solutions that combine the ChinaEurope freight train with other types of freight services. COSCO Shipping also plans to further integrate resources in warehousing, shipping, inland water transport, air transport, railway transport, trailers and road transport to extend its business footprint in integrated doortodoor freight solutions. Through deepening cooperation with platform enterprises in the freight train service sector, while leveraging on its own extensive transportation network and multiple logistics centers at home and abroad, the company hopes to create an effective railandsea freight service model running across the Eurasian continent to make greater contributions to stabilizing global industry and supply chains and the global economic recovery, while also facilitating Chinas establishment of its dualcirculation development pattern, the company said.