Tibetan youths become keen promoters of cultural heritage
2020/6/17 0:00
Cases of coronavirus infection are accelerating rapidly across Africa, even as governments and health authorities strive to limit the spread of the pandemic. The continents death toll from COVID stood at , as of Tuesday morning, while confirmed infections reached ,, according to the Africa Centres for Disease Control and Prevention. According to the World Health Organization, while it took nearly  days for Africa to reach , cases, the jump to , cases occurred in less than  days. Following the increased infections, the WHO urged African countries on Thursday to observe constant vigilance. For now, Africa still only accounts for a small fraction of cases worldwide, said Matshidiso Moeti, the WHOs regional director for Africa. But the pace of the spread is quickening. Swift and early action by African countries has helped to keep numbers low, but constant vigilance is needed to stop coronavirus from overwhelming health facilities. The rising caseload is being driven by  countries, which account for nearly  percent of all cases. More than  percent of deaths have occurred in just five nations Egypt, with , deaths South Africa, , Algeria,  Sudan,  and Nigeria, . Health workers have been significantly affected by the pandemic, with , health workers infected in  African countries since the beginning of the outbreak, according to the WHO Africa office. South Africa has been the most affected, with , infected health workers. South Africa also is the hardesthit country on the continent, with , confirmed cases, followed by Egypt with ,. South Africas Western Cape province continues to be the epicenter of the virus in the country, with . percent of total cases, followed by Gauteng province, with . percent. To curb the spread of the virus,  countries have closed their borders, while  have extended nighttime curfews. Several countries also have banned public gatherings and international flights and have closed schools. On Sunday, the Kenyan government announced that the country was inching toward its peak on coronavirus infections, like many other African countries. As of Tuesday morning, Kenya had recorded , confirmed cases and  deaths. Rashid Aman, Kenyas chief administrative secretary for health, said that out of  counties,  had reported coronavirus cases, and its a matter of time before all counties are affected. This is a worrying trend that requires serious interventions at all levels, and as a ministry, we have worked, and will continue to work, very closely with county governments to upscale the level of preparedness at the county level, Rashid said. Francis Kuria, Kenyas director of public health, called for masks to be worn in public places. I want to urge Kenyans to notice the rising numbers, especially now that Africa is nearing its peak, and to use face masks, which is the easiest containment measure to halt spread of the virus, he said. Despite the spike in cases, several African countries have begun relaxing lockdowns so that economic and social activities can resume. South Africa began reopening schools on June . Angie Motshekga, the minister of basic education, assured South Africans that safety measures are in place to prevent the spread of the virus at schools. However, according to The East African newspaper,  teachers and , students in Western Cape tested positive for the coronavirus last week, forcing  schools to close. Zimbabwean President Emmerson Mnangagwa, in an address to the nation on Sunday, said Let us begin to further open up, remembering that we all have a role to play. We recognize that the current spike in the number of positive cases requires that we take a more cautious approach in relaxing the lockdown restrictions. edithmutethyachinadaily.com.cn