Hong Kong legislation to bring back stability
2020/6/16 8:00
The traditional Peking Opera face painting takes on a modern look in toys.Photo provided to China Daily Practitioners of old arts and crafts are using videosharing platforms to reach out to young people, Deng Zhangyu reports. Qiao Xue, a craftswoman of leather items in the Ningxia Hui autonomous region, sold handmade products worth , yuan , in a minute on videosharing platform Douyin, known as TikTok outside China, during a livestreaming session on June . Hundreds of viewers, mostly young people, commented that they watched her video or bought her products to support the intangible cultural heritage of leather work. Some other inheritors of traditional crafts also presented their videos online to show their skills and mark Chinas Cultural and Natural Heritage Day on Saturday. The presentations were part of a series of activities held by the Ministry of Culture and Tourism on video and social media platforms to attract peoples attention, especially the youth, to traditional Chinese culture. Qiao Xue hosts a livestreaming program on Douyin, or TikTok, to promote the traditional leather crafts.Photo provided to China Daily Hundreds of documentaries about intangible cultural heritage can be watched for free on major streaming platforms, including Youku, Tencent and iQiyi. Videosharing platforms popular among young people such as Bilibili and TikTok set up special sections to invite viewers to share their own videos related to intangible cultural heritage. Since , as part of the central governments efforts to promote intangible cultural heritage, , items were put on a protection list, covering folk literature, traditional music, crafts, sports and folk customs. Nationallevel inheritors, most of whom are elderly, will be supported by the government, according to the Ministry of Culture and Tourism. Xiao Jun, a researcher at the media development studies center in Wuhan University, says videosharing platforms play an important role in protecting and promoting intangible cultural heritage. A lack of artisans has pushed some forms to the brink of extinction. Videos help to revitalize traditional crafts. Guo Shigang injects new life into the ageold Peking Opera face painting.Photo provided to China Daily Wen Shishan, an inheritor of Fuyang paperumbrella making in Zhejiang province, became known online after he shared a video on how to make paper umbrellas last year. The craft originated more than  years ago. The paper is adorned with painted landscapes, flowers or birds. Now, Wen has more than , followers on TikTok and sales of his umbrellas have reached up to , yuan every month, he says. This is the first time that so many people have liked the umbrellas I make, says Wen, who learned the craft from his father  years ago. To help more people learn about Peking Opera face painting, artist Guo Shigang, , says he plans to share videos online. He has applied for accounts on videosharing platforms Kuaishou and TikTok. The traditional art form requires people playing different roles onstage to wear special makeup. With the number of viewers shrinking, the art of making Peking Opera face masks is also drawing fewer people. Guo Shigang injects new life into the ageold Peking Opera face painting.Photo provided to China Daily Guo has joined an online group of about  followers of the art, most of whom are in their s and s. He learned Peking Opera face painting from his father as a little boy. To attract young people, he has created fashionable designs based on Peking Opera makeup and has painted Peking Opera faces on toys and half a side of the face with only black lines on other items. He has also held classes in communities and schools and provided online lessons in the past few months due to the COVID pandemic. He says he will design more innovative makeup for his future videos. I believe the internet and videosharing platforms can get more people to notice this art, he says. Data released by video platforms suggests that younger generations are interested in traditional culture when it is put online in an innovative way. According to Bilibili, over  million netizens watched traditional culturerelated content in ,  percent of whom were younger than age . As of May , the number of videos related to intangible cultural heritage programs posted on TikTok had reached  million, with more than  billion views, since the launch of the platform in September , TikTok says in an email to China Daily. Music app Kugou says related music has been played more than . billion times by people born in the s and the s.