Johnson and EU chief bid to break deadlock
2020/6/16 6:59
Residents undergo nucleic acid tests for COVID on Monday night at a stadium in Beijings Xicheng district.?Photo by Zou HongChina Daily Beijing tightened measures to cope with the new cluster of local COVID infections as the number of confirmed cases in the city rose to  from Thursday to Sunday and up to , social workers joined communities epidemic control work. The capital reported  new patients with COVID on Sunday, the majority of whom worked at or had been to Xinfadi wholesale market in Beijings southern Fengtai district. In addition to the confirmed cases, another seven are asymptomatic infections under medical observation. Xu Hejian, a spokesman for the municipal government, said this outbreak is closely related to the Xinfadi market, and the government will employ the strictest investigation to find the source of the infection and curb the spread of the virus. Nearly , people who run businesses or make purchases in Xinfadi had received nucleic acid tests by Sunday and have been transferred to isolation locations for centralized medical observation. Up to , residents living in  communities near Xinfadi and Yuquandonganother market whose operations have been suspended due to the new COVID infections in the capitalare receiving nucleic acid tests. All those communities are closed and under strict management. Around , people had been to Xinfadi since May  based on a citywide data collection campaign. Those people will get nucleic acid tests and, meanwhile, must stay at home for selfobservation. By  pm on Sunday, we had completed nucleic acid testing for , people who had visited the Xinfadi market in the past  days, said Gao Xiaojun, a spokesman for the Beijing Health Commission. Out of all the samples, , came negative and the rest are awaiting results. Beijing will raise the prevention level of all communities by resuming temperature checks before entering and disinfection of public areas, said Xu Ying, an official at the citys antivirus leading work group. Places for cultural events and entertainment will suspend operations, Xu added. He said that on Monday, nearly , social workers were mobilized in , communities and villages in Beijing to help fight COVID. Residents undergo nucleic acid tests for COVID on Monday night at a stadium in Beijings Xicheng district.?Photo by Zou HongChina Daily Wang Guiqiang, head of the infectious diseases department at Peking University First Hospital, said the number of cases in Beijing might continue to increase based on the current situation, according to a report by chinanews.com on Monday. Some peoples infections may not be detected yet. Thus, they might keep spreading the virus, he said. The risk still exists, so we need to strengthen testing and screening. The National Health Commission announced on Sunday that it had sent a team of experts to Beijing to guide COVID prevention and control work. The team included the head of the commission, experts with experience in Wuhan and top experts in epidemiological investigation and environmental disinfection. Facing the sudden increase in the number of local cases, the municipal education authority announced on Sunday that students who have resumed oncampus classes can choose to study at home if they wish. Students in their final year of junior high and senior high school will finish their classes  days in advance of the date of their final exams and study at home. We want to ensure the health and safety of every student, said Li Yi, a spokesman for the Beijing Education Commission. He said provision of online study materials will continue. Students who study at school should wear masks at all times, including during classes, the commission said on Monday. When students have outdoor activities and take part in sports, they can take off their masks while maintaining social distance, it said.