Coronavirus accelerates in Africa as governments strive to curb it
2020/6/15 19:58
A staff member sanitizes the hands of students as schools begin to reopen after the coronavirus disease COVID lockdown in Soweto township in Johannesburg, South Africa June , .  Coronavirus is accelerating rapidly across Africa, even as governments and health authorities strive to limit its spread. The death toll from the pandemic hit , across the continent as of June , while infections reached ,. According to the World Health Organization, while it took nearly  days to reach , cases, the jump to , cases occurred in less than  days. Following the increased infections, the WHO on Thursday urged African countries to observe constant vigilance. For now, Africa still only accounts for a small fraction of cases worldwide, said Dr. Matshidiso Moeti, WHO regional director for Africa. But the pace of the spread is quickening. Swift and early action by African countries has helped to keep numbers low but constant vigilance is needed to stop coronavirus from overwhelming health facilities. The rising caseload is being driven by  countries, which account for nearly  per cent of all cases. More than  per cent of deaths are occurring in only five nations, including Egypt with , South Africa, , Algeria,  Sudan,  and Nigeria, . Health workers have been significantly affected by the pandemic, with , health workers infected in  African countries since the beginning of the outbreak, according to the WHO Africa office. South Africa has been the most affected, with , infected health workers. The country is also the most affected in the continent in terms of spread of the pandemic, with , infected cases followed by Egypt with , cases as of Sunday. South Africas Western Cape continues to be the epicenter of the virus in the country with . percent of total cases, followed far behind by Gauteng with . percent of the total cases. To curb the spread of the virus,  countries have closed their borders fully, while  have extended nighttime curfews. Several countries also have banned public gatherings, closed schools and banned international flights. On Sunday, the Kenyan government announced that the country has recorded , infections and  deaths and is inching towards its peak on coronavirus infections, just like many other African countries. Doctor Rashid Aman, Kenyas chief administrative secretary for health, said out of  counties,  have reported coronavirus cases and its just a matter of time before all counties are affected. This is a worrying trend that requires serious interventions at all levels and as a ministry, we have worked, and will continue to work, very closely with county governments to upscale the level of preparedness at the county level, Rashid said. Doctor Francis Kuria, the head of public health, called upon the public to wear face masks throughout when in public places, according to WHO guidelines. I want to urge Kenyans to notice the rising numbers, especially now that Africa is nearing its peak and to use face masks, which is the easiest containment measure to stop the spread the virus, he said. Despite the spike in infected cases, several African countries have started relaxing lockdowns so that economic and social activities can resume. South Africa started reopening schools on June . Angie Motshekga, the basic education minister, assured South Africans that safety measures have been put in place to prevent the spread of the virus at schools. The country also has allowed workers to return to their jobs. In his address to the nation on coronavirus on Sunday, Emmerson Mnangagwa, the president of Zimbabwe, announced that the lockdown remains at level two. Let us begin to further open up, remembering that we all have a role to play. We recognize that the current spike in the number of positive cases requires that we take a more cautious approach in relaxing the lockdown restrictions, Mnangagwa said. The WHO recommends that as restrictions are lifted, countries must ensure that they can continue to test for coronavirus while also providing access to essential health services.