Beijing organizing nucleic acid tests for , residents
2020/6/15 16:55
People line up for nucleic acid testing on June ,  at Guangan Gymnasium in Xicheng District, Beijing. Beijing is organizing nucleic acid tests for , residents to curb a new cluster of local COVID infections.Photo by Zou Hongchinadaily.com.cn Beijing reported  new confirmed cases of COVID as of Sunday, with  of them having close contact with the recently closed Xinfadi agricultural products wholesale market in Fengtai district, senior officials said at a news conference on Monday. The newly confirmed cases involved  males and  females, according to Pang Xinghuo, deputy director of the Beijing center for disease control and prevention. All were sent to designated hospitals for treatment.? So far, all the confirmed cases have connections with Xinfadi market. We remind people that if you have been to the Xinfadi market recently, please stay at home and maintain social distancing from other people, she said. Also, its necessary to report your health condition to the communities and be tested for coronavirus. Its also of great importance to do selfprotection. She said that residents who notice any symptoms should go to the nearest hospital for treatment wearing a mask. Use of public transportation is not advisable, she said.? Staff in protective clothing help citizens line up for nucleic acid test sampling on June ,  at Guangan Gymnasium in Xicheng District, Beijing. Photo by Wang Jingchinadaily.com.cn Xu Ying, a member of Beijings leading group against the coronavirus, said at the news conference that nearly , social workers in , communities have been actively involved in the work of fighting against COVID. Approximately , people who visited Xinfadi market since May  have been interviewed via calls, field checks and other ways, and they are in the process of being tested, he said. He said that  communities neighboring Xinfadi in Fengtai district and  communities around Yuquandong market in Haidian district have been closed while tests for , residents are in process.? Communities have arranged volunteers to send meals to the residents and help them buy goods. Communities are also responsible for the psychological counseling of their residents, he said. People line up for nucleic acid testing on June ,  at Guangan Gymnasium in Xicheng District, Beijing. Beijing is organizing nucleic acid tests for , residents to curb a new cluster of local COVID infections. Photo by Zou Hongchinadaily.com.cn Previous report