Eurasian rail service boosts Hungary biz
2021/8/17 9:11
Workers make face masks at a health care gear production factory in Shanghai, Jan , .  Chinas first group standard for disposable flat masks for nonmedical use, issued in Shanghai, will take effect next month with the aim of improving the quality supervision of such products in the city. The standard for rectangular flat masks made from nonwoven material was issued by the Shanghai Textile Association and the Textile and Apparel Chamber of Commerce of the Shanghai Federation of Industry and Commerce. In China, a group standard is an independently formulated standard released by social organizations and industrial technology alliances in the market that is adopted by enterprises voluntarily through signing agreements or commitments. The group standard for flat masks says the connection points where the ear loops or head straps join the edges of masks should be symmetrical and the length of ear loops should be the same on both sides to ensure effectiveness. On masks using head straps, they should be the same length. The group standard also includes assessment criteria for the color fastness of dyed and printed masks. In addition, it says the layer that rests against the skin should not be dyed or printed, as a way to cut down on skin irritation. It says the elastic recovery rate of head straps should not be less than  percent to ensure the effectiveness of the mask and also stipulates the breaking strength of each head strap. The group standard is suitable for masks for both adults and children. Since the outbreak of the COVID pandemic last year, companies in the textile and garment industry in Shanghai have got into the maskmaking business to ease the supply burden in the market. However, the most widely used disposable flat masks for nonmedical use lack a proper standard to guarantee quality, said Liu Yinfeng, executive vicepresident of the Shanghai Textile Association. The group standard is aimed at helping companies choose and implement suitable mask standards according to their products as well as helping citizens to purchase quality masks based on their needs. Twentythree mask manufacturers in Shanghai,  percent of the total in the city, have committed to implementing the group standard. Liu said they would print the group standard logo on masks or packaging to allow the products to be better identified in the market. He said  mask manufacturers participated in the drafting of the group standard. They advocate the issuance of the standard as production can thus follow a more precise standard, which hardly causes an increase in cost, Liu added. The issuance of the group standard has been welcomed by the public. On Shanghai Fabu, the municipal governments WeChat account, one netizen said standardized, refined management has penetrated into every corner of the city.