The world in photos June
2020/6/15 14:49
Here are some of the most striking images taken from around the world over the past week. A security guard wearing a protective suit checks temperature of a woman before she enters a shopping mall at Greater Noida west in Indias northern state of Uttar Pradesh June , .  A man raises a fist as motorcade passes which contains George Floyds body after the funeral for George Floyd, whose death in Minneapolis police custody has sparked nationwide protests against racial inequality, at The Fountain of Praise church in Houston, Texas, US, June , .  Tourists visit Ohrid Lake in Ohrid, North Macedonia, June , . North Macedonias Minister of Economy Kreshnik Bekteshi unveiled on last Monday a set of measures to support tourism as part of the third set of measures introduced by the government amid COVID pandemic.? A span is installed on pillars of the Padma Bridge in Munshiganj on the outskirts of Dhaka, Bangladesh, June , . China Railway Major Bridge Engineering Group Co, Ltd on Wednesday installed another span of Bangladeshs largest Padma Bridge. The ,ton, meterlong span was placed on the pillars  and  of the .km bridge.  People view Claude Monet The Immersive Experience exhibition at Horta Gallery in Brussels, Belgium, on June , . With a sound and light show as well as virtual reality technology, the exhibition provides audience with immersive experience to appreciate the works and inspirations of Claude Monet. The exhibition will last until Sept .  Palestinian volunteers dressed as a clown and a bear perform for refugee children in an effort to lift their spirits in the southern Gaza Strip city of Rafah, on June , .  People watch a movie at an openair cinema in Budapest, Hungary, on June , . While indoor cinemas and theatres have to remain closed as part of the COVID restrictions, Hungarian people can enjoy outdoor cinemas now.  The NotreDame Cathedral is seen during the dismantling operations of the scaffolding in Paris on June , . Workers officially began on June  the removal and dismantling of the firedamaged scaffolding atop the Cathedral, which had been badly damaged in a blaze last year.  A woman takes a photo of a projection honoring volunteers on the Kremlin wall during celebrations of Russia Day, in Moscow, on June , .  Serbian Prime Minister Ana Brnabic L sends a box containing Serbian soil as a gift to Peng Zhiqiang, head of the Chinese medical expert team, in Belgrade, Serbia, June , . After spending almost three months in Serbia helping fight the COVID epidemic there, the Chinese medical expert team departed from Belgrade airport early Thursday with good wishes from Prime Minister Ana Brnabic. A sendoff for the sixstrong team was held on Wednesday evening when they met with Brnabic, who later personally escorted them to the airport.  Slovak Prime Minister Igor Matovic, Polish Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, Czech Prime Minister Andrej Babis, Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban from L to R attend a joint press conference in Lednice of the Czech Republic, June , . The prime minister of the Visegrad Group, consisting of the Czech Republic, Poland, Hungary and Slovakia, on Thursday called for a fair distribution of the European Unions recovery fund.  A man rides his bicycle through a flooded area caused by the heavy rain from the tropical depression locally named Butchoy in Manila on June , .  Dawn Burrows teaches math to Year  pupils from Landywood Primary School in a socially distanced classroom in Staffordshire, Britain, on June , . As part of the governments easing lockdown measures, most primary schools in England reopened to more pupils on June .  ? A Libyan man wearing a protective face mask receives money, following the outbreak of the coronavirus disease COVID, at the North Africa Bank in Tripolis Janzour city, Libya, June , . 