New infrastructure to turn cities greener, smarter
2020/6/15 10:28
A staff member sanitizes the hands of students as schools begin to reopen after the coronavirus disease COVID lockdown in Soweto township in Johannesburg, South Africa June , .  ADDIS ABABA, Ethiopia  As the COVID caseload surpassed , on Sunday across Africa,  countries on the continent had closed their borders in an effort to curtail the spread of the virus. The death toll from the pandemic had reached ,, and , people had recovered, said the Africa Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, or Africa CDC. The northern African region was the most affected area across the continent in terms of cases and number of deaths, it said. The most badly hit countries include South Africa, Egypt, Morocco, Djibouti, Nigeria and Algeria, the specialized healthcare agency of the African Union Commission said. On Saturday some countries reported records for daily increases in infections. Egypt registered , new cases in the previous  hours, the highest daily surge to that point, raising the national count to ,, the countrys health ministry said. The country also reported a record singleday increase of  in COVID deaths, taking the death toll to ,, said Khaled Megahed, the health ministry spokesman. Ethiopia, Africas second most populous country, with a population of about  million, reported  new infections on Saturday, the highest daily increase so far, taking the countrys tally to ,, the countrys health ministry said. High daily rise South Africa, the worsthit country on the continent, had registered a total of , cases and , deaths, according to a Johns Hopkins University tally. In addition to the  countries that had closed their borders, the Africa CDC said on Saturday that curfews had been imposed in  countries in an effort to halt the spread of the infectious virus. About seven countries have imposed international air traffic closures, two have imposed travel restrictions to and from specific countries, and two have activated entry and exit restrictions, the Africa CDC said. Some countries still allow cargo, freight and emergency transport into and out of their countries, and some African Union member states allow citizens and residents to enter, but all borders are essentially closed, it said. On Saturday the African Union voiced its appreciation for the significant contribution China had made to fighting COVID in the continent. The message of appreciation was contained in a communique issued at the end of a videoteleconference meeting of the Bureau of the Assembly of the African Union Heads of State and Government with Chairpersons of the African Union Regional Economic Communities. The communique says that the heads of state and government noted with appreciation the significant contribution made by the Peoples Republic of China to this effort, including setting aside a portion of its manufacturing capacity to ensure the supply of  million testing kits, , ventilators and  million masks each month for the continent. Xinhua