Importance of digital economy further highlighted amid COVID pandemic Chinese premier
2020/6/15 10:02
A person takes the escalator at London Bridge Station in London, Britain on June , .  BRUSSELS  The following are the latest developments of the COVID pandemic in European countries. LONDON  Britain has reported  new deaths from COVID as of Saturday afternoon  the lowest number of daily fatalities since lockdown began, the Department of Health and Social Care said Sunday. As of Saturday afternoon, of those who tested positive for novel coronavirus in Britain, , have died. The figures include deaths in all settings, including hospitals, care homes and the wider community. As of Sunday morning, , people in Britain have tested positive for the disease, a daily increase of ,, said the department. A waiter wearing a mask works at Cafe de Flore at its reopening day in Paris, France, June , .  PARIS  Starting from Monday it would be possible for France to turn the page on the first act of the crisis that had forced France into nearly two months of anticoronavirus lockdown followed by a gradual and cautious deconfinement, President Emmanuel Macron declared on Sunday. With the exception of Mayotte and French Guiana, the entire map of France will go green, including IledeFrance, the great Paris region, said Macron in a televised address to the nation, a fourth one since the outbreak of the epidemic. This means a stronger resumption of work and the reopening of restaurants and bars, he said. People enjoy sunshine on the beach in Fregene, Lazio, Italy, June , .  ROME  Italys fourmonthold coronavirus situation continued to trend in the right direction, data from the Civil Protection Department showed Sunday, as political leaders are shifting their attention toward assuring safety and economic growth during the postcoronavirus period. Over the previous  hours, Italy recorded  deaths from COVID, the lowest oneday fatalities since March . There were  new cases of the disease recorded over the last day, down from  a day earlier but higher than  on Friday. Health officials said that daytoday fluctuations are less important than the overall trend, which has been positive. The total of new cases has now been below  for  of the last  days, including Sunday, a level reached only three times over the  days before that. Players of RCD Espanyol form a  shape to pay a tribute to their fans during a training session at the RCDE Stadium in Barcelona, Spain, June , .  MADRID  The number of deaths from COVID in Spain has been unchanged for a week now, at ,, according to the data published by the Ministry of Health, Consumer Affairs and Social Welfare on Sunday. But the ministry also noted that there have been  deaths in the past seven days, and that a validation of the number of deaths is being carried out to allow us to correct the numbers, which will be updated weekly. The Health Ministry also reported  new cases of COVID, drastically lower from the  reported  hours earlier, taking the tally to ,.