Digital museum established to honor residents fighting spirit
2020/6/15 10:00
A customer tries out a pair of sunglasses at a dutyfree experience shop in a resort in Sanya, South Chinas Hainan province, April , .  Shortly after South Chinas picturesque tourist haven Hainan province regained its footing following the COVID epidemic in midMarch, many retail stores and hotels started to resume their operations. They, however, still had in place certain restrictions on the number of people allowed inside and measures like social distancing. With a mask on, I visited the famed dutyfree complex in Haitang Bay in Sanya city, where the second phase of the tourist favorite has just opened to public. The shopping mall extension has more open space, filled with outlets of renowned brands, retail chains and quick service restaurants. The presence of Starbucks, Tsui Wah, Under Armour, Nike, Fila... gives the mall the aura of a modern metropolis. Tropical balmy weather provides the icing. Having traveled to the island many times, Im familiar with its landscape, attractions and specialties. Yet, Hainans rapid changes give its bay areas such a refreshing feel that I felt as if I was visiting a new destination. New hotels, shopping malls and worldclass theme parks are constant surprises. Just in Haitang Bay alone, there are two largescale travel destinationsAtlantis Sanya for water sports fans and Fantasy Town for night owls. There was a time when real estate was built on the island to be sold to elders from the mainland in search of postretirement homes. Now, office building or business complex projects are attracting hightech or financial industries. Highend talent is being wooed, so as to convert the island into the countrys globally influential and highquality free trade port. At the dutyfree shopping center, I looked around for certain topend cosmetics on sale that my relatives and friends asked me to fetch. I lined up outside stylish outlets and waited patiently. When it was my turn to pay, I was told a tourist with a ticket to leave the island could buy no more than  pieces of cosmetic products. I had to let go of several items. At the shoe store, I learned dutyfree policies allow a tourist to buy no more than four pairs. Now, with the new mega plan to transform Hainan into a free trade port, scrap import duties, lower income tax rates for talent, and cap corporate tax at  percent, inbound tourists can raise their consumption amount to , yuan , a year from the current , yuan. They can spend their money on a wider selection of product categories. The relaxation on dutyfree products is expected to unlock more domestic consumption potential and make Hainan a more attractive shopping and touring destination for international travelers. Tourism in  generated a revenue of . billion yuan, or  percent of the provinces GDP. According to the Haikou Customs, since the implementation of the dutyfree policy in  on the island,  million pieces of dutyfree products were sold, generating sales of  billion yuan, from . million personal shopping transactions. In , . million tourists visited Hainan, up  percent yearonyear. Of them,  percent were domestic tourists. But in the future, as a free trade port, Hainan could emerge as more than Chinas Hawaiia travel and shopping heaven that is also tipped to be a hub for business, trade and higher education. Sensing the imminent transformation, investors have been out to make the most of the emerging opportunities. Li Zixing, CEO of Fujian DryPort Group in Fujian province in East China, said the company expanded its business to Haikou last year to benefit from its preferential policies for trade and logistics. I believe Hainan will become an export and import leader in the country as well as a bridge to international ecommerce and a domestic consumption market, Li said. Between January and May, the companys crossborder business reached a volume of , units of packages. Hainans land area is about , square kilometers, with a population of . million. It is seeking to diversify its industry structure and function as a strategic trade and investment destination by offering more crossborder flows of trade, investment, capital, personnel, transport and data. The countdown has begun for it to emerge as the countrys biggest free trade port by .