Fuyao Glass openness seen as  key to American Factorys Oscar
2020/6/15 8:40
ZHONG JINYEFOR CHINA DAILY Shared experience of fighting pandemic has linked the destinies of China and Barbados even more closely Barbados is the easternmost tropical island nation of the Lesser Antilles in the Eastern Caribbean Sea. Despite being thousands of miles apart, China and Barbados have always been good friends and partners sharing the same vision and working together. The virus knows no borders and the pandemic knows no race. Since the outbreak of COVID, China and Barbados have joined hands to win the battle against virus. In the face of the sudden pandemic, the Chinese government has always regarded peoples lives and safety as the top priority. With the solidarity of the whole country, the Chinese people attained a great achievement in fighting against the pandemic with the strictest, most thorough and comprehensive measures. Chinas effective prevention and control measures have set an example, bought time and provided experience for other countries in their fight against the pandemic and boosted their confidence that the fight can be won. As the Chinese government and people fought against the pandemic, people from all walks of life in Barbados expressed their solidarity and offered support to China. In a letter to Chinese President Xi Jinping, Prime Minister Mia Amor Mottley spoke highly of Chinas war against COVID, believing that China is fighting for all mankind and is a living example of building a community with a shared future for mankind. As the rotating chairperson of the Caribbean Community CARICOM, Prime Minister Mottley also actively promoted the Caribbean voice of supporting for Chinas fight against COVID in the joint communique of the st Intersessional Meeting of the Conference of Heads of Governments of CARICOM. Meanwhile, the Minister of Health and Wellness of Barbados, the president of the Caribbean Development Bank, the president of the Association of BarbadosChina Friendship and thousands of friendly people also expressed their support for Chinas fight against the pandemic in various ways. Since the outbreak of the pandemic in Barbados, Chinese people thousands of miles away have felt for the people of Barbados. In a letter to Prime Minister Mottley, President Xi expressed Chinas firm support for the Barbados fight against the pandemic and stressed that China is ready to work with Barbados and other countries to jointly safeguard regional and global public health security. On May , a special videoconference at the viceministerial level between China and the Caribbean countries having diplomatic relations with China on COVID was successfully held, reaffirming the message that China and the Caribbean countries will work together to fight against the pandemic. Medical and health experts from China also held videoconferences on pandemic prevention and control measures several times with experts of Barbados to share their experiences and enhance Barbadoss ability to cope with the pandemic. The central government, local governments and businesses of China have lent a helping hand to Barbados by providing it with ventilators, testing kits, surgical masks and protective suits. Chinese medical teams from Chongqing have joined the fight against the pandemic in Barbados and worked with Barbados medical workers to overcome the difficulties. Local people have left messages on the Chinese embassys and my own social media accounts, thanking the Chinese government and people for their generous assistance, saying that they will always remember the profound friendship and solidarity of the Chinese people. Friends will always be together regardless of how far apart they are. The common experience of fighting against COVID has linked the destinies of China and Barbados even more closely. At present, the pandemic situation in both countries is under effective control, the resumption of work and production is proceeding steadily, and economic and social life is recovering rapidly. As pointed out in President Xis speech at the videoconference of the rd World Health Assembly, based on the spirit of solidarity and cooperation, by standing hand in hand, the Chinese people and people all over the world, Barbadians included, will be able to win the war against the pandemic, gradually restore normal social and economic life, and jointly build a global community of health for all. The author is the Chinese ambassador to Barbados. The author contributed this article to China Watch, a think tank powered by China Daily. The views do not necessarily reflect those of China Daily