Fuyao Glass helps bring back small city in Ohio
2020/6/15 0:00
With most of the restrictions in Moscow having been lifted, people visited parks to enjoy the summer sunshine even as the number of COVID cases rose in the city. Moscow Mayor Sergei Sobyanin announced the lifting of restrictions, including on selfisolation rules, on Tuesday. While the hair salons have already reopened, the sidewalk cafes, museums and dental clinics were open on last Tuesday. Restaurants and gyms will open on June . Experts attributed the mayors decision to the downward trend in coronavirus cases. However, the wearing of masks and gloves in public still remains mandatory. Some experts dubbed it a political decision stemming from the lockdown fatigue, Russian mainstream newspaper Kommersant said. Moscow has been reporting about , new cases every day. The coronavirus reproduction rate in the city on last Monday stood at ., which does not make it possible to ease restrictions on such a large scale, according to the national consumer watchdogs guidelines. We are focused on the number of severe cases and fatalities, and there has been a decline in the figure. The trend is positive, said a source at the mayors office. In addition, doctors have learned to cope with the workload and there are enough vacant hospital beds. Political scientist Mikhail Vinogradov said he believes the Moscow authorities decision came in response to the strong lockdown fatigue that engulfed society. It seems the authorities were unable to contain the peoples eagerness to have their freedom back. A vote on the constitutional amendments will take place soon, said Alexei Makarkin, a political scientist. Initially, people complied with them restrictions and approved of them, but now they are fed up and may have grievances against the authorities, Makarkin said, adding that he agreed the mayors decision was largely political. The pressure on the part of the federal government, which has been inclined to remove the restrictions, has influenced the mayors decision and speeded things up, Vinogradov said. However, there were all indications that the restrictions would be lifted on June . Moscow authorities are hoping that by July, the citys economy would return to levels prior to the imposition of restrictions, said Vladimir Efimov, Moscows deputy mayor. Meanwhile, Alexei Nemeryuk, first deputy head of Moscow mayors administration, said almost  percent of trade enterprises and  percent of service enterprises are currently open in the Russian capital. The tourism industry, which was badly hit amid the epidemic, may see a recovery soon, experts said. Russia plans to launch a project focusing on the tourism industry, Alexander Kalinin, head of the AllRussian NonGovernmental Organization of Small and Medium Business, said. The project is aimed at boosting tourist flows and revenues. To achieve this goal, the government is eyeing measures to cofund the expenditures of tour operators, reduce travel costs and introduce evisas, Russian newspaper Izvestia wrote. It is high time a national project is launched for domestic and inbound tourism, Kalinin said. Given the situation on foreign markets and the fact that Russians are not allowed to travel overseas at the moment, this is highly relevant, he said. A national project aimed at supporting the industry would indeed be important, Alexander Bakhtin, an investment strategist at online trading platform BCS Premier, said. Lower travel costs and the introduction of digital services, including evisas, can have a significantly positive impact on domestic travel, he said. Russias plans are in line with the global trends because other countries, including Spain and Japan, are taking similar steps to boost domestic tourism. As for the overseas visitors, easy visa processing is crucial. Electronic document management and easy entry requirements can help attract up to  million more tourists to Russia every year, said Valery Yemelyanov, analyst at Freedom Finance, an investment company. renqichinadaily.com.cn A girl cools herself running through a water fountain at a park near a river in Moscow, Russia, on Thursday. The city lifted earlier last week the restrictions imposed to curb the spread of COVID. ALEXANDER ZEMLIANICHENKOAP