Chinas backtowork tips amid coronavirus pandemic
2020/6/12 10:40
? FILE PHOTO A person wearing a face mask and gloves adjusts glasses while taking photos of the Hollywood sign after a partial reopening of Los Angeles hiking trails during the outbreak of the coronavirus disease COVID at Griffith Park in Los Angeles, California, US, May , .  LOS ANGELES  After months of forced hiatus for film, television and music productions due to the coronavirus lockdown, much of Hollywood is rejoicing this week in response to California Governor Gavin Newsoms declaration that production in California could be greenlit as early as June . This reopening represents a significant leap of hope for the entire industry that has seen hundreds of thousands of employees, cast and crew out of work and many production companies struggling to stay afloat. The resumption of production is exciting and I know the longterm future of the industry, worldwide, will be very strong, Bob Underwood, a Hollywood motion picture screenwriter and a member of the Writers Guild of Americas WGA Foreign Employer Taskforce told Xinhua Monday. Like everyone else in the industry, most of Underwoods projects have been temporarily sidelined due to the lockdown, except an animation project. You can literally produce animation from concept to completion with every person working remotely, he explained to Xinhua. According to the California Department of Public Health, in order to reopen, individual productions will still be subject to specific preapproval by local county public health officials and must follow stringent guidelines to keep cast and crew safe. The motion picture industries guilds and unions compiled their own page book of industrywide guidelines on safe coronavirusconquering working conditions last week and have submitted it to public health authorities for approval. Their new guidelines include all the safety protocols now being used by the general population, such as wearing masks, frequent handwashing, and social distancing, and also require temperature checks of everyone upon arrival at work and extensive testing as well. They also placed an increased emphasis on the frequent disinfecting of surfaces, props, equipment and supplies. Each makeup artist will need to designate completely new and separate makeup and brushes for each actor, Vera Stromsted, an experienced hair and makeup artist in New York City told Xinhua. Normally this is a practice used primarily for the top stars and studio pictures, and that is usually too expensive for the lower budget independent films which wash the brushes in between use instead of replacing them. A lot of very intelligent people have put a lot of time and effort into coming up with these guidelines, international film producer, Andre Morgan of Ruddy Morgan, said to Xinhua. But its not the guidelines that are the fundamental issue, its how this country is handling or rather mishandling the COVID crisis in America, he said, asserting that greenlighting production in June was premature. I think its foolhardy, Morgan told Xinhua. Though he said the most accurate information on the virus has come from Newsom and New York Governor Andrew Cuomo, he contended that in general. This country has been leaderless and not done a good job of setting up any sort of testing and tracking systems like the other countries dealing with COVID. We havent even peaked on the cases on LA, so how can we talk intelligently about putting people back to work when we may be putting them in harms way? he queried. He also expressed concern that medically speaking, No one knows yet how significant the second wave of the virus will be, and that financially, What will happen if you have to shut down the film halfway through the shoot? That would be worse than if you hadnt started at all. Morgan suggested local government should take a leaf from Chinas former leader, Deng Xiaoping, who advised that the best way to cross a river safely  or achieve ones goal, metaphorically speaking  was to feel for a safe stone on the riverbed before one takes their next step. One step at a time is safer, Morgan contended. This is more like a leap than a safe step. But for others, a pandemic of this proportion is just another one of the many perils that filmmakers face on a daily basis in order to achieve that unforgettable, showstopping shot. Producing movies and television during a pandemic brings many challenges but Hollywood has  years of experience making productions under all sorts of unusual and dangerous conditions, the WGAs Underwood told Xinhua. He is certain the industry is resourceful and sensible enough to be able to produce quality projects while keeping their casts and crews safe from COVID. Weve proved we can maintain a high degree of safety shooting in the midst of fires, high speed chases, hurricane force winds, floods, stampedes, explosions, and on moving trains, sinking ships and crashing planes, Underwood said. He added thoughtfully, Weve seen many times in the past how people want and need entertainment during challenging times and this has been no different. When we adapt, we survive, and the faster and smarter we do it, the better well be.