Largescale commercial use could become reality sooner than expected
2020/6/12 8:58
Beijing municipal government holds a news briefing on Thursday, June , . Photo by Du Juanchinadaily.com.cn Chinas capital Beijing reported a new local confirmed COVID case on Thursday after the city went more than  days without reporting a new one. The male patient was found in Beijings Xicheng district, according to the city government on Thursday. The patient is a Beijing resident surnamed Tang, . He went to the hospital alone by bike with a mask on Wednesday afternoon after feeling cold and exhausted. Tang showed no symptoms of cough or chest congestion. His nucleic acid test result was positive, and he was confirmed to have contracted COVID, according to Miao Jianhong, deputy head of the Xicheng district. Tang hadnt been out of Beijing in the past two weeks and had no close contact with anyone from other cities. His other two family members are now under concentrated medical observation. Both members have tested negative for the virus. The residential community where Tang lives is now in closedoff management. The district will investigate where Tang has been and conduct sample collections and disinfections at those places. Before Thursday, the capital hadnt reported any new cases for  successive days. The city lowered its public health emergency response from the second to the third level on June . Pang Xinghuo, deputy director of Beijings Center for Disease Control and Prevention, said the center will search for the source of infection by collecting respiratory and blood samples of Tangs close contacts. We will investigate people who came back from overseas or domestic high and middlerisk areas in the past month in Tangs residential community, she said. The neighboring communities and hotels will also be under investigation for any clues. Pang said the new case is a signal that the risk still exists. She also said people should continue taking social distancing measures and wear masks when necessary.