The art of healing
2020/6/12 7:06
More than five months since the citys first novel coronavirus case was reported on Jan , surgical masks, hand sanitizers and sanitizing wipes remain on top of most Hong Kong residents shopping lists. In the early days of the onset of the disease, these items had all but disappeared from the local markets or were priced beyond the reach of people with limited means. Some of Hong Kongs highprofile corporate entities who have a sustained track record of funding art projects and supporting the citys artists came forward to help the particularly vulnerable sections of society during the height of the COVID crisis. Hong Kongbased conglomerate New World Development NWD acted fast, starting a HK. million , community antiepidemic fund in February. The company has distributed more than  million locallyproduced face masks and , preventive kits containing the everpopular hand gel and alcohol wipes as part of the initial drive. In March, NWD launched its LoveWithoutBorders global charitable initiative with plans to donate  million more Hong Kongmade masks to deprived communities in Hong Kong and abroad. Company CEO Adam Cheng says, New World Development places great emphasis on education and healthcare, bringing to the forefront the importance of creating shared value across communities worldwide. An important part of that mission is protecting the next generation. NWD has since tied up with UNICEF to provide essential safety and sanitation materials to vulnerable children around the world. Some , masks are being sent to refugee camps to help protect young refugees as well as frontline health workers. It is my sincere hope that we will help galvanize global efforts to protect children and youth, especially those residing in the worlds most vulnerable zones, says Cheng. NWD also launched Hong Kongs firstever face mask vending machines. May  onwards some , people from disadvantaged communities have been collecting a pack of five medical face masks every week from machines installed in one of the  NGO centers across the SARs  districts. One such NGO is the Boys and Girls Clubs Association located in the Wah Kwai Community Centre which serves a sprawling public housing estate in Aberdeen. Hugo Yeung, a yearold secondary school student who has begun using these masks on a regular basis, says, The fit is so snug it leaves no gaps. I feel quite warm when Im wearing it! Its a welcome change from the time Yeung had to wake up at  AM to catch a bus to downtown to be able to queue up with hundreds of other people, wishing fervently that the masks did not run out before his turn came, which was often the case. His neighbour Ng Laihong was reusing masks. She says, I wiped them with a hand sanitizer and also steamcleaned them. She still has doubts as to whether that was the right way to go about it but it felt better. When the crisis eased a little, the masks in the market were often rather substandard, especially given they cost somewhere between HK to  a box. Some of these gave off a strong odor. Candy Chan, who has young children, says, I would have to add a layer of tissue to bulk out thin masks. New World mask dispensers have made the likes of Chan, Ng and Yeung a lot happier. Now all it takes is swiping a smart card to pick up a set of brand new masks from the community center. Users find it reassuring to know that the entire stock is made locally. Chan says she is confident that a Hong Kong product is regulated and meets a high standard. My mum says it looks fashionable, Yeung adds. More masks Among other Hong Kongbased corporate sponsors of art doing their bit to contain the spread of COVID is Jardine Matheson. The company has distributed , face masks and , bottles of hand sanitizers to those who need them the most. MINDSET, a charity working in the field of mental health, is helping to distribute the products to Hong Kong NGOs. It is wonderful to be able to give back to our community during this difficult time, says MINDSETs executive director Jessie Tsui. We will continue to support our friends in recovery during the pandemic with information and mental health expert advice. Among the NGOs they teamed up with is Baptist Oi Kwan Social Service which helps some of the citys most desperate and neglected people. Its service head Scarlet Poon says, We really appreciate the thoughtful donation by Jardine. Back in March, many people in recovery hesitated to go for medical consultation because they were worried about not having enough masks. So the donation came at a good time. Hong Kongs flagship carrier Cathay Pacific has seen its revenues nosedive during the global pandemic. However, the setback did not come in the way of parent company Swire, a major sponsor of new performance art in the city, trying to give back to the community in the time of crisis. Swire partnered with the food bank SJS FOODCO, to help them feed the poor and also donated HK. million to the Hong Kong Council of Social Service HKCSS to support some of the most neglected and disenfranchised members of society. In addition to helping local families, HKCSS has reached out to singleparent families, those with chronic illness, drug addicts, immigrants and ethnic minorities who cannot readily access essential services. Hong Kong residents with roots in South Asia have received pamphlets listing good hygiene practices and social distancing guidelines in Urdu and Nepalese. Diversity matters Despite being forced to close all its offsite betting facilities since early February, the Hong Kong Jockey Club HKJC, which runs numerous programs to support the creation of new works of art, has been busy with charity activities. It has released a HK million emergency fund and been fasttracking grants to over  NGOs trying to support communities that have suffered financial hardship during the pandemic. HKJC also distributed millions of face masks to the Hospital Authority, and care packs of food and hygiene supplies to housebound and lowincome families. HKJC has announced a HK million community sustainability fund. Community service agencies and sports organizations are being invited to submit applications for projects that aim to assist underprivileged and vulnerable members of society impacted by the coronavirus outbreak. We hope the community sustainability fund will help small and mediumsized community organizations in providing essential services to the most vulnerable members of society. In doing so we also hope to support the diversity and vitality of the community service ecosystem, says HKJC CEO Winfried EngelbrechtBresges. Power supply giant CLP teamed up with celebrity chefs and social enterprises to launch a mobile phone app which delivers a range of services aimed at making social distancing more bearable. Users can order a range of food items through the Electric Kitchen Freestyle app. Once the groceries are delivered, users can watch master chefs Kenny Chan, Siu Sau Heung and Hilda Leung demonstrate how to rustle up a good dish. CLP has also given a boost to the beleaguered catering industry by reaching , bottles of disinfectant spray to , restaurants, and distributed thousands of face masks and bottles of hand sanitizers to disadvantaged families through Hong Kong Community AntiCoronavirus Link. Jardine Matheson has reached face masks and hand sanitizers to people suffering from mental health issues. Photos provided to China Daily Hong Kong Council of Social Services initiative to supply hygiene essentials to disadvantaged sections of the community got a fillip from Swire Group. Residents of Wah Kwai can now collect their weekly quota of surgical masks from a vending machine, supported by New World Development. Power supply company CLP visited members of disadvantaged groups to distribute face masks and hand sanitizers. ?