Online revolution Can HK shake off its old mindset?
2020/6/12 7:06
The coronavirus fallout is shaking up the world. What legacy will it leave for Hong Kong? In just a matter of weeks, Hong Kong people have become accustomed to shopping online, working from home, and keeping educating online. Once seen as too slow in jumping aboard the internet bandwagon, Asias financial hub is now standing at the forefront of a citywide online experiment. The retail and catering sectors, which have taken the most drastic hit from the pandemic, see online services as a lifeline, while other industries, betting on a technologyfocused competition in the postpandemic era, are beefing up their online presence in no time. Whether people like it or not, not only the techsavvy millennial generation, but all of Hong Kong society is embracing changes, as diverse as working and commuting patterns, online schooling, and distance learning. Before the coronavirus outbreak, Hong Kongs retail business had been very slow in adopting online services, due to proximity of stores, as well as very limited online offering. In fact, the city had one of the lowest online shopping penetration rates globally in   less than  percent, said Imke Wouters, a partner at Oliver Wyman, a global management consulting firm. The pandemic has fundamentally changed this  people whove never shopped online have now turned to online shopping, even to buy face masks. Apart from the few existing online players, many others have begun building up an online retail offering, with travel agents getting very much involved, Wouters said. She believed the abrupt shift from a physical to digital approach could be an eyeopener for local hardpressed retailers, and this will further impact the already struggling brickandmortar businesses. As one of the citys economic pillars, the local financial services industry is in the midst of a farreaching online revolution. In the postpandemic era, the world will become more digital and agile. The coronavirus has transformed the way we do business and how we operate. Its a wakeup call that technology disruption is a reality that every bank needs to address at the top level, said Amy Lo, cohead of wealth management Asia Pacific at UBS Global Wealth Management. As the virus confined many bankers, traders and their clients to homes, Hong Kongs financial services sector, which has long relied on personal connections, especially with the moneyed elite, is under compounded pressure from growing automation and digitalization. Lo believes the pandemic is a big push for combining hightech and hightouch business models to reach out to clients. It just puts a fastforward button on the Swiss banks plans for digitalization, a trend that UBS has invested a great deal in to prepare itself for profound changes ahead. In the whitecollar world, workplaces have amped up options for teleworking and staggered shifts to shield themselves from infections, ushering in a new era where working remotely is part and parcel of peoples regular schedule. With the stayathome practice still in place in most of the markets worldwide, we believe working from home will continue and wont go away, said Lo, who is also head and chief executive of UBS Hong Kong. Lo said that more than  percent of the banks employees in some Asia Pacific countries and regions are now working from home. Despite the sheer power of the citywide online experiment, Fielding Chen Shiyuan, Hong Kongbased senior vicepresident and economist at China Construction Bank Asia, believes its hard to say that the traces of many of the changes ignited will be here to stay after the virus is gone. For years, Hong Kong has the dubious honor of being too slow getting itself online and the internet industry off the ground. The reasons for this have been repeated over and over  the smallhome market that makes the business stumble along the way without a scale advantage, as well as the deeprooted mercantilism that leaves its mark on a lack of local talents, Chen said. The changes that move in line with the big trends are likely to continue, but those that dont necessarily fit in with the citys reality may only be a flash in the pan, he stressed. I think many of the changes happening here belong to the latter category, he added. Though some companies may have effective workfromhome policies and technologies at hand to ensure employees productivity and mobility while meeting the relevant regulatory requirements, Chen said theres no shortage of people in the densely populated city known for its cramped and small living spaces  not equipped with the conditions of working at home. Such reality, together with Hong Kongs efficient public transport system and relatively short commuting time, may make the workingfromhome practice a temporary expedient made necessary by a public health emergency, he said. On the contrary, the shift to online shopping, teleconference, digital banking has been sped up and may stand as a vivid example of how new businesses will gain a foothold in the city, he said. To be sure, the Hong Kong market, by and large, is no different from the past. Its still an isolated, small market  a harsh fact that remains unchanged and continues to inherently hinder the developing of the local internet industry, Chen said. A new breed of homegrown internetrelated businesses may emerge and thrive amid the coronavirus crisis. But most of them will eventually migrate with their feet to look for greener pastures in other broader markets. The pandemic has indeed forced the local government, entrepreneurs and residents to taking a sober, hard look at the disruptive power of the online revolution. This may foster a muchawaited shift in mindset. In the end, personal willingness is important, but it doesnt have the final say. Whether the legacy will last long will be driven by capital and the market, Chen said. sophiachinadailyhk.com ?