Top  countries with fastest internet speed
2020/6/12 6:40
Huawei G Innovation and Experience Center in London, Britain, Jan , .  China ranked third out of  countries and regions for mobile internet, while it posted the th spot out of  countries and regions for fixed broadband, according to speed tests conducted by the Speedtest Global Index website in April. Lets take a look at the top  countries with the fastest mobile internet. No  Saudi Arabia Average download speed . Mbps Visitors are seen in front of Qasr alFarid tomb at the Madain Saleh antiquities site in AlUla, Saudi Arabia, on Jan , .  No ?Australia Average download speed . Mbps The Sydney Opera House is seen behind a giraffe enclosure at Taronga Zoo Sydney as it reopens to the public amid easing of coronavirus disease restrictions following an extended closure in Sydney, on June , .  No  Norway Average download speed . Mbps A view of the city hall in Oslo, Norway. Photo provided to chinadaily.com.cn No  Bulgaria Average download speed . Mbps People take selfies with a Trabant car on exhibit in the town of Plovdiv, Bulgaria, on Jan , .  No  Canada Average download speed . Mbps Participants compete during the Ice Dragon Boat Festival on Dows Lake in Ottawa, Feb , .  No  Netherlands Average download speed . Mbps A windmill is seen behind tulips at Keukenhof Park, also known as the Garden of Europe, in Lisse, the Netherlands, on April , .  No  United Arab Emirates Average download speed . Mbps A view of the Burj Khalifa, the tallest structure and building in the world since , is seen in the city center of Dubai, on Jan , .  No  China Average download speed . Mbps Skyscrapers reach into the clear sky in Beijings CBD area. Photo by Sheng PengFor China Daily No  Qatar Average download speed . Mbps I.M. Peis Museum of Islamic Art is seen in Doha, capital of Qatar. Photo provided to China Daily No  South Korea Average download speed . Mbps A couple removes temporarily protective face masks that they wear to avoid the spread of coronavirus disease as they take a picture at an amusement park in Seoul, South Korea, on April , . 