George Floyds brother testifies before US Congress as police reform becomes partisan issue
2020/6/12 5:54
FILE PHOTO The Wall Street sign is pictured at the New York Stock exchange NYSE in the Manhattan borough of New York City, New York, US, March , .  US stocks plunged Thursday amid increased fear of a second wave of novel coronavirus infections. The Dow Jones Industrial Average fell more than , points  its worst day since the pandemic began to roil the markets in March. Youre seeing the psychology in the market get retested today, Dan Deming, managing director at KKM Financial, told CNBC. The reality is this things COVID going to linger longer than probably the market had thought. The Dow lost ,. points, or . percent, and closed Thursday at ,.. The SP  dropped . points, or . percent, to ,.. The Nasdaq Composite fell . points, or . percent, and closed at ,.. Investors have been betting that the US will reopen its economy with few problems, boosting the market. The SP  turned positive for the year on Monday. Prior to Thursdays rout, the Dow and Nasdaq Composite had gained about  percent from their March lows. Shares of major manufacturers were pummeled Thursday. Aircraft builder Boeing fell . percent. Heavy machinery manufacturer Caterpillar lost . percent. Both companies are viewed as proxies for global industrial activity. Major banks also took a beating. Bank of America lost . percent. JPMorgan Chase, the nations largest bank based on deposits, fell . percent. Citigroup lost . percent. After a strong run up by airline stocks, traders dumped shares of American Airlines, Delta and United. All lost at least  percent. Cruise lines also took a hit. Carnival and Norwegian Cruise Line lost at least  percent each. Retail continued its skid as Macys, Gap and Kohls traded lower. Statistics compiled by Johns Hopkins University show US coronavirus infections now exceed  million, with about , deaths. Coronavirus cases and hospitalizations are spiking in Arizona. Texas reported three consecutive days of recordhigh coronavirus hospitalizations, and nine counties in California reported an increase of confirmed cases or hospitalizations. Its unclear if the new cases reflect a premature reopening of the economy in those states, a disregard for social distancing and maskwearing, or if its the fallout from recent demonstrations and riots to protest the death of George Floyd, an unarmed black man, at the hands of a white Minneapolis police officer. Many protesters didnt wear masks or observe social distancing guidelines. Following Wednesdays Federal Reserve meeting, Board Chairman Jerome Powell said that the labor market may not recover for years and that millions of workers may be unable to return to their old jobs or industries. Powell pledged to continue support for the economy by buying bonds and keeping interest rates low. The number of new jobless claims continued to decline, suggesting the worst of the coronavirusrelated layoffs are probably over.