Its time US took a leaf out of Chinas book
2020/6/12 0:43
Initial jobless claims fell to . million last week, or , fewer than the previous week, the US Labor Department reported Thursday. Analysts surveyed by Dow Jones expected . million new jobless claims to be filed. The unemployment rate fell . percentage points to . percent. The number of new claims has declined for  consecutive weeks, suggesting that the worst of the coronavirusrelated shock to the economy may be over. However, unemployment remains at a record high. Workers continuing to receive benefits fell to . million compared with the . million a week ago and the peak of . million the week of May . The fourweek moving average fell to . million, a decline of , from a week ago, Labor Department statistics showed. The jobless numbers are key to the debate in Congress about the next coronavirus stimulus bill. Democrats and Republicans disagree about the need to continue the extra  in jobless benefits set to expire July . Democrats say the extra money is needed to help the unemployed meet basic expenses, but Republicans argue that the extra money will discourage people from returning to work and slow the recovery. Were slowly seeing the labor market recovery begin to take form, Robert Rosener, an economist at Morgan Stanley, told The New York Times. But theres still an enormous amount of layoffs going on. Last week, the Labor Department said the unemployment rate fell to . percent as companies hired . million workers. However, a misclassification in tabulating the statistics pushed the unemployment rate to about . percent. The unemployment rate, or the number of unemployed divided by the number of people in the workforce, was . percent in February before the COVID pandemic hit. The number of new coronavirus infections is rising in some states. But its unclear if the new cases reflect a premature reopening of the economy in those states or if its the fallout from recent demonstrations and riots to protest the death of an unarmed black man in the custody of Minneapolis police. Many protesters didnt wear masks or observe social distancing guidelines. According to The Associated Press, Texas reported three consecutive days of recordhigh coronavirus hospitalization and nine counties in California reported an increase of confirmed cases or hospitalizations. A study by the National Bureau of Economic Research found no evidence that lifting Wisconsins stayathome order impacted social distancing COVID cases or COVIDrelated mortality in the following two weeks. If we see those numbers coming back in the biggest economy in the world, then thats going to lead to a massive correction, Altaf Kassam, head of investment strategy for State Street Global Advisors in Europe, told The Wall Street Journal. Because Federal Reserve Chairman Jerome Powell was incredibly dovish, its finally settled that were in this for the long haul. Were not going to recovery quickly and there will be pain ahead. After Wednesdays meeting, the Federal Reserve said it had no plans to boost interest rates through  and vowed to support to the economy battered by the coronavirus pandemic. The federal funds rate, currently . percent, is the benchmark and affects shortterm rates such as interest charged on consumer credit and longterm rates such as mortgages, auto and home equity loans. The low interest rate is intended to spur investment and consumer spending, which represents about twothirds of the US economy. The Fed also pledged to continue to buy Treasury and mortgagebacked securities to stabilize the market. The Federal Reserve expects the nations gross domestic product, the value of all goods and services produced in a year, to shrink . percent in , but to grow  percent in  and . percent in . The Chicago Board Options Exchanges Volatility Index, a gauge of expected volatility based on SP  options and often called the fear index, rose to its highest level in about three weeks. In early trading Thursday, the Dow Jones Industrial Average fell . points, or . percent, to ,.. The SP  fell . percent. The Nasdaq Composite was down . percent. On Wednesday, the Dow lost . points, or . percent, and closed at ,.. The SP  fell . points, or . percent, to ,.. The Nasdaq Composite gained . points, or . percent, and closed at ,.. The technologyheavy Nasdaq has jumped about  percent since the market bottomed out in March and crossed the , mark for the first time during the rally. The index has advanced for eight of the last nine trading days. Eli Lilly said it may have a coronavirus drug authorized for use by September if either of two antibody therapies now being tested proves effective. The company also has a third antibody treatment in preclinical review, Reuters reported. In early trading, Lillys stock slipped . percent. Bank of America Securities boosted it price target for Apple to  a share from  and maintained its buy rating. Analysts cited the companys new G iPhone and estimated that hardware sales will grow  percent next year. In early trading, Apple fell l. percent. Airline stocks, which had rallied on early signs of an economic rebound, fell in early trading Thursday. American Airlines fell . percent. Delta Air Lines lost . percent. Southwest Airlines fell . percent. United Airlines was down . percent. Retail stocks continued decline. Macys fell . percent. Kohls was down . percent. Home Depot was off . percent. But Target was down only . percent.