Antiracism protester among  new COVID cases in Australias State of Victoria
2020/6/11 9:55
? A girl wearing a protective face mask and synthetic gloves sits on luggages as she queues for temperature checking amid the spread of coronavirus disease COVID at Halim Perdanakusuma airport in Jakarta, Indonesia, March , .  SINGAPORECabin crew in protective suits, health certifications for passengers, mandatory face masks, and longer checkin times. This is the new reality of mass air travel. As people dream of taking to the skies once more, they face the prospect that changes to curb the spread of coronavirus will be even more challenging than those brought in after the  terrorist attacks in the United States. In addition to the strict security measures commonplace around the world since then, passengers will now encounter a barrage of checks for COVID. Before the pandemic, we were told to arrive two hours before the flight. This time we had to be at the airport at least four hours before flying, said an Indonesian passenger after taking a domestic route in late May. There were multiple queues and screenings before he could even check in at the airport, he added. Passengers in the country must declare a reason for flying, provide documentation proving they are virusfree, undergo multiple screenings, and offer details of their movements on arrival. It was more tiring and expensive. With these kinds of strict rules, I think people will think twice before traveling, said the yearold, who had to pay double the usual fare for his short flight as some seats were left empty for social distancing. As the aviation industry attempts to find a way forward, experts warn the impact of the pandemic will be farreaching.  created a new environment for the entire travel industry in terms of security, explained Shukor Yusof from Malaysiabased Endau Analytics. While the fallout from the  attacks could be used as an indicator of what to expect, the COVID challenge was a far more serious... global event, he said. The United Nations civil aviation agency has drawn up a set of guidelines for safe flying in the wake of the pandemic, from mandatory wearing of masks to the disinfection of areas people come in contact with. In addition, the International Air Transport Association, or IATA, has suggested governments collect passenger dataincluding health informationahead of travel, and that access to airports be restricted to staff and sameday travelers. Other measures outlined in their guidelines include the redesign of gate areas to reduce congestion, faster and smoother boarding and baggage collection procedures, and even prohibiting queues for the washrooms to limit passenger interaction. The COVID crisis is the biggest disruption in the history of the aviation industry. The recovery is going to be long and slow, said Albert Tjoeng, Asia spokesman for IATA. Agencies via Xinhua