Shanghai mask producers commit to new standard
2021/8/17 7:28
People wear masks around Times Square, as cases of the infectious coronavirus Delta variant continue to rise in New York, July , .  The statistics the US Census Bureau released on Thursday indicate the population of the United States increased to  million last year from  million in , up . percent. Notably, despite white people remaining the largest group in the countrynumbering about  milliontheir proportion in the national population has declined for the first time since the country started recording its population and demographic structure in , shrinking from . percent in  to . percent last year. The Latino population has swelled fast to  million, accounting for . percent of the national total. In California, Latinos now account for . percent of the states population, with white people accounting for . percent of the population. But the Asian American population increased fastest among all ethnic groups, growing by onethird over the past  years, hitting  million, about  percent of the national total. The change in the demographic structure of the US, and the aging of its society that has accelerated over the past  years will profoundly influence US politics and society, with white people worrying about their shrinking share of the population. As the population of the socalled ethnic minorities is increasing much faster than that of the white people, it will only be a matter of time for the proportion of the white people to drop below  percent of the national total, if the current trends continue. That should prompt the US government to implement more policies to improve the public services for nonwhite ethnic groups, bridge the income gaps between them and white people, and address the institutional unfairness in its domestic policies. The need for the policy change is more acute in the states, such as those in the Rust Belt in the northeastern and central western regions, where the decline of the population, the aging of the society and the widening income gap are overlapping. Since some states in the central western region can directly determine the direction of presidential and midterm elections, they look set to become a main battlefield for the two parties in their struggle for power. In the future, the partisan politics of the US, and the domestic policies of the country will have to adapt to the changes of the demographic structure of the country, which will only serve to further split US society if the problems related to racial discrimination cannot be resolved. BEIJING NEWS