Canada eases restrictions for families separated by virus travel ban
2020/6/10 11:20
? An Air Canada worker waits for travelers at a nearlyempty OHare International Airport? in Chicago, Illinois, US, on April , .  Canada has loosened its border restrictions for crossborder families separated by a temporary COVID travel ban. Immediate family members from the United States, as well as from other countries, can now enter Canada to be reunited, according to Prime Minister Justin Trudeau. We are bringing in a limited exemption to allow immediate family members of citizens or permanent residents to come to Canada, Trudeau said Monday during his daily briefing. This is an incredibly difficult time to be apart from a spouse, a child, or mom or dad. We hear that. According to the new policy, eligible immediate family members include spouses, commonlaw partners, dependent children and their children, parents, and legal guardians who do not have the novel coronavirus or are showing no signs or symptoms of COVID, or who do not have reason to believe they have COVID. Anyone who enters the country will have to selfquarantine for  days. And if you dont follow these rules, you could face serious penalties, Trudeau said. The immediate families of temporary residents in Canada  such as those on student or work visas  are not eligible to enter under the updated policy. Canada Immigration Minister Marco Mendicino clarified that the exemption applies under Canadas temporary deal with the United States banning nonessential travel across the shared border, which remains open to commercial traffic and essential workers only until June . Its important to note that the exemption we announced today is very incremental, its very targeted, he said. In response to the COVID pandemic, Canada and the US closed their shared border to all nonessential travel on March  for the first time since the War of . About  percent of the Canadian population lives within an hours drive of the border. More than  million people traverse the countries  border crossings each month. Trudeau first indicated on May  the possible modifications by the Canada Border Services Agency to allow crossborder families in Canada and the US to reunite. According to the Canadian Press, an online poll that surveyed , adult Canadians from June  found that  percent of respondents said they expect a second wave will hit Canada. And  percent said they expect a second wave will be stronger than the first, with another  percent saying they expect it to be just as strong. The poll also found that  percent of respondents said they have worn masks to go grocery shopping, up eight percentage points in one week and  percent said masks should be mandatory in public and confined spaces, like shopping malls and public transit. Data recently released by the province of British Columbia shows that Richmond, a city with the highest concentration of Chinese residents in the province, has the lowest percentage of cases in an area where most of BCs cases reside. The provinces latest COVID geographic data shows the city, in which . percent of residents have a Chinese background, has the lowest percentage of cases, with  per million residents, compared with  in Vancouver. There also have been no new active cases in Richmond since May . Evidence is pretty clear that the Chinese community showed great leadership. Many members of the community adopted measures such as selfisolation and face masks before they were mandated, said Peter Phillips, head of the infectious diseases division of the University of British Columbia School of Medicine.