Surge sees Iran back atop Middle East cases
2020/6/10 9:54
? An Iranian man wears a protective face mask, following the outbreak of the coronavirus disease COVID, as he walks in ValiEAsr street, in Tehran, Iran, May , .  CAIRO  Iran has reemerged as the country hardest hit by the COVID pandemic in the Middle East, with a spike in infections taking the number of confirmed coronavirus cases above ,. Iran reported a total of , cases on Tuesday, after registering , new ones over the previous day. The pandemic has so far claimed the lives of , Iranians, according to the health ministry. Some , patients have been discharged from hospitals, with , still in a critical condition. Irans health officials have urged people to wear face masks in public places, particularly on public transport, as the country resumes business and social activities. In Turkey, now the second hardesthit country in the Middle East, the number of cases increased by  on Monday to ,, according to Health Minister Fahrettin Koca. Nineteen people died in the latest hour period, taking the death toll to ,, and the number of recovered patients to ,, Koca said. Turkeys flagcarrier Turkish Airlines on Monday announced that it would offer a percent discount on tickets for healthcare workers across the globe. The Turkish Airlines started a new campaign for the healthcare workers who are working selflessly to combat the COVID pandemic, the airline said. With no significant signs of a slowdown in the pandemic, Saudi Arabia registered , new coronavirus cases on Monday, taking the accumulated infections in the kingdom to ,. The death toll from the virus increased to  with  fatalities reported in the latest hour period, while the number of patients who have recovered reached ,  , of them were added since Sunday. Egypt on Monday registered , new cases, raising the total number of infections to ,, the health ministry said. The death toll from the disease in the North African country rose to , after  fatalities were added, while a total of , recoveries have been registered. The Israeli Ministry of Health reported  new cases on Monday, raising the total number to ,. The death toll remained at . Halt in easing curbs Israel has decided to halt an easing in restrictions that had been planned for the coming days after the increase in cases, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said on Monday. Accordingly, train services did not resume on Monday, as earlier planned, while the reopening of theaters and cinemas  scheduled for June  under restrictions  will be postponed for at least one week. There is a very sharp rise in illness, Netanyahu said in a statement. The first thing weve decided to do is put the brakes on it. Weve stopped all the easing we were going to put in place in the next few days. Israel could already be facing a doubling in the infection rate within  days, Netanyahu said. He urged people to keep social distancing, wear face masks and maintain good hygiene. Iraqs Health Ministry confirmed on Monday , new cases, taking total infections to , in the country. Twentyfour more people died from the virus since the previous day, raising the death toll to . Some , patients have recovered. Xinhua  Agencies