Outbreak poses no impediment to power plant
2020/6/10 9:07
A picture taken last year shows the cooling towers of a coalfired power station in Punjab province, Pakistan. Sahiwal Thermal Power Plant, a priority project of China Pakistan Economic Corridor, was completed and put into operation in July .  Not a single case of COVID reported so far at coalfired station in Pakistanis city of Karachi For Fazal Rahim, a business manager at the Port Qasim Power Plant,  kilometers southeast of Karachi, capital of Pakistans Sindh province, the pandemic was no impediment. COVID has not slowed down the pace of our work, he said. The credit goes to the management and workers, both Pakistanis and Chinese. Out of a total of , employees at the plant,  are Pakistanis and  are Chinese. Stable operations continue at the power plant. Not a single worker has contracted the virus so far, said Xi Peng, deputy chief representative of Chinas Power Construction Corp. We have made sure every worker complies with the standard operating procedures to keep the virus at bay. All employees have been taking precautionary measures, such as wearing masks in public places, washing hands frequently and avoiding large gatherings, Xi said. Until now, the plant has reported no cases of COVID and no suspected cases either. The coalfired power plant, an independent power producer, is one of the key energy projects on the ChinaPakistan Economic Corridor that has been jointly developed by Powerchina Resources Ltd and Qatarbased investment company Al Mirqab Capital Ltd. Once complete, it can meet the electricity needs of  million households. Since the operations began in April , we have steadily increased the number of Pakistani employees, especially for technical operations, Xi said. Local people are working at the plant as skilled laborers and logistics service providers. Fazal is happy to work here. The Chinese workers dedication and commitment to work has almost transformed a dream into reality. Hu Ling, a manager at the plants corporate culture department, chose to stay at the plant during the Lunar New Year this year. One needs to serve the company with devotion and enthusiasm, Hu said. We have to accomplish the CPEC. I stay in touch with my family on video call, she said. Although the epidemic is severe, I firmly believe that through wise decisions, the societys unity and strong support of the people from all walks of life, we can surely overcome the epidemic, she said. The CPEC is a priority, said Mohammad Saad, a senior Pakistani official. We have made sure the COVID pandemic doesnt affect the progress of projects under the CPEC. Projects under the CPEC are in the process of completion. Pakistani authorities said recently that work on the western route of the CPEC was in full swing. A fourlane expressway from Hakla near capital Islamabad to Dera Ismail Khan, a city in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province in the northwest, is set to be completed next year. It can cut travel time from  hours to . hours, said Asim Saleem Bajwa, a retired lieutenant general and special assistant to the prime minister on information and broadcasting. Experts believe the CPECs km western route will help bring prosperity to some of the most underdeveloped regions in Pakistan. The potential of Gwadar port Balochistan province will not be fully realized until the western route of the motorway from Gwadar to Chaman Balochistan province is constructed. Thereafter, a majority of the Middle East countries would be connected, said Zhang Baozhong, chairman of China Overseas Ports Holding Co Ltd. The COPHC Pakistan operates the Gwadar Port and the Gwadar Free Zone. Work on the MW Suki KinariKP Hydel Power Project is in full swing. Unaffected by COVID, percent of the work on the project has been completed, the special assistant tweeted recently. In Multan, a city in Punjab province, the PeshawarKarachi Motorway project, built by China State Construction Engineering Corp, is the largest transportation infrastructure project under the CPEC.Since its opening on Nov  last year, it became the countrys most advanced motorway. Our company values highly the health and safety of every employee, the Pakistan Observer newspaper quoted Muzzamil, the Pakistani logistics supervisor of the motorway projects HQ camp, as saying. After the outbreak, the employees carried out epidemic prevention activities, conducted disinfection measures, and recorded everybodys temperature and health data every day. All employees actively performed their duties and complied with the epidemic prevention requirements. So far, there have been no cases of infection in our camp, he said. Xiao Hua, general manager of the motorway project, told Pakistan Observer that they attach great importance to the life, health and safety of every employee. We shall always be cautious, strictly implement epidemic prevention measures, and make every effort to ensure the safe operation of PKM motorway, Xiao said. On the eve of Eid alFitr, a holiday marking the end of Ramadan, the management ensured the supply of flour, peanut oil, milk and face masks to the families of Pakistani employees. Earlier, the company donated  million rupees to the PIMS Hospital, Islamabad, through the AllPakistan Chinese Enterprises Association.