Surveyors take giant steps to recalculate height of Qomolangma
2020/6/10 8:33
A member of the Chinese surveying team remeasuring Mount Qomolangmas height works at the summit of the mountain on May .?TASHI TSERINGXINHUA On May , a strong, cold wind swept across the summit of Qomolangma, known in the West as Mount Everest. The air temperature was  C. Eight mountaineers reached the summit at  am and began conducting a survey that attracted the attention of a large part of the Chinese populationprecisely determining the height of the worlds highest mountain. The team remained at the summit, at an altitude of about , meters, for twoandahalf hoursa record for Chinese climbers. They erected a surveyors beacon, an important measuring device, and installed an antenna for the Beidou Navigation Satellite System on the snowcovered peak, which measures less than  square meters. Meanwhile, observations were conducted from six points lower down the mountain. It took six months of hard work to prepare for those twoandahalf hours of data collection for scientific research. The program officially started on April , when the Ministry of Natural Resources announced the start of the remeasuring process. The project was undertaken in conjunction with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the General Administration of Sports of China and the government of the Tibet autonomous region. As this year marks the th anniversary of the first successful expedition by Chinese mountaineers to Qomolangma from the Chinese side and the th anniversary of Chinas first measurement of its height, the remeasurement carries great historical importance, the ministry said on its Sina Weibo account. The mission was undertaken by the st Geodetic Surveying Brigade, under the ministrys jurisdiction, and members of the China Mountaineering Team, said Wang Yongfeng, deputy head of the Mountaineering Sports Management Center at the sports administration. On May , a team of  surveyors and mountaineers started out from North Base Camp in Tibet. It took nearly a month to finish the survey, which was one of the most challenging ever conducted on the mountain. The results will not be announced until a series of complex calculations have been completed in the coming months. According to the ministry, innovations in techniques and equipment included the use of the BeiDou Navigation Satellite System, Chinesemade surveying equipment, a gravimeter carried by plane and D interactive virtual reality. Surveyors set out from a camp at , meters on May , aiming for the summit of Qomolangma.?TASHI TSERINGXINHUA A perplexing question The desire to explore the worlds extremities has driven countless adventurers to test their courage, energy and skill, and Qomolangma definitely ranks high on the wish list. The question of the mountains height has perplexed Chinese scientists and administrators for hundreds of years, but regular changes in geological structure and improvements in measuring equipment and technology have produced a range of answers. Qomolangma straddles the ChinaNepal border, with its northern section located in Shigatse, Tibet. Chinese scientists conducted the first survey of the mountain more than  years ago, during the Qing Dynasty . Since the founding of the Peoples Republic of China in , surveyors had conducted six other rounds of measurement and scientific research. However, only the heights calculated after surveys conducted in  and  were released, coming in at ,. meters and ,. meters respectively. Given the huge amounts of money and people involved, why must the mountain be measured so often? Like parents who check the health of their children in various ways, including by measuring their height, scientists measure the height of the worlds highest mountains to learn more about the earth and collect geoinformation, said Chen Junyong, a geologist and member of the Chinese Academy of Sciences. He noted that Qomolangma is located at the point where the Eurasian and Indian tectonic plates meet, which makes the mountain the perfect window for observing crustal movement. Changes in the peaks height could indicate whether the plates are heading toward or away from each other. Qomolangma emerged from the oceans  million years ago as a result of the two plates colliding, according to Chen. Crustal movement affects the geological structure, including the mountains height. As the plates move, the heightwhich is affected by geological activity, such as earthquakeschanges, he said. Dang Yamin, director of the Institute of Geodesy and Geodynamics at the Chinese Academy of Surveying and Mapping, used the magnitude . earthquake that struck Nepal in  as an example, noting that it caused permanent changes in the Earths surface and may have affected the height of Qomolangma. Scientists from other countries measured the height following the earthquake via various methods such as GPS. However, the most reliable measurement cannot be calculated unless professional surveys are conducted on the site, Dang said. The answer provided by last months project will be the most reliable. As leader of the technical coordination group, Dang said the survey team noted the condition of the snow and ice at the summit that may indicate imminent climate change on the TibetQinghai Plateau. Thats why measuring Qomolangmas height is so significant. Put to good use, it could benefit mankind, he said. A khata, or ceremonial scarf, is presented to the head of the survey team as he arrives at North Base Camp in Tibet on May .?SUN FEIXINHUA Calculations According to Liu Zhanke, deputy chief engineer of this years survey, mountains are measured with basic trigonometry. The technique, which has been used for hundreds of years, helped teams under the guidance of George Everest surveyor general of India  to calculate the height of Qomolangma in the s. To calculate the elevation of a mountain, scientists measure the distance between two points on the ground and then measure the angles between the top of the mountain and each point. With two angles and one side of a triangle, trigonometry reveals the lengths of the other sides, and thereby, the height of the triangle the mountain, Liu said. To make the measurements, surveyors must identify a horizontal surface by using a base level. In China, that is the level of the Yellow Sea off Qingdao in the eastern province of Shandong, more than , kilometers from Qomolangma. Sea level changes in different parts of the world due to the influence of tidal forces. So, every country has a legally recognized sea level. The current level of the Yellow Sea was calculated based on continuous observation of changes over  years, which is longer than an astronomical tidal period, said Jiang Tao, associate researcher at the academy of surveying and mapping and a member of the advisory panel for this years survey. Having confirmed the results of previous sea level measurements, the scientists passed on the data to teams of surveyors in Dingri county, Tibet. Once the surveyors beacon had been placed on the summit, surveyors at stations around the summit measured the distance from the six points to the beacon, which meant at least six triangles could be calculated to determine the mountains height, Jiang said. In , a surveyors beacon was placed on Qomolangmas summit for the first time by a team of Chinese mountaineers. That allowed surveyors at nine observation stations near the mountain to calculate that it was ,. meters highthe first time China had officially announced the height. In the two largescale comprehensive scientific surveys that followed, in  and May, beaconsabout  meters tall and  kilograms in weighwere carried to the top, Jiang said. Of course, one measurement could be wrong, so surveyors calculated the dimensions of the mountain from many stations at the base, averaging out the heights calculated with many, many triangles, he said. Nowadays, surveying and mapping projects are aided by technological developments. In addition to the BeiDou Navigation Satellite System, other modern instruments mostly made in China also played a role, such as a gravimeter to measure gravity, a radar to calculate snow depth, and meteorological instruments to assess the weather. Team members play table football at North Base Camp last month.?SUN FEIXINHUA High standards Chinas surveying and mapping technology has been of international standard since the s. China is developing more and better surveying equipment, some of which was used during this years survey, such as the BeiDou Navigation Satellite System, said Dang from the academy of surveying and mapping. He added that the gravity survey was the highest ever taken, thus setting a world record. The previous record was set by surveyors Ren Xiubo and Bai Huagang in  at an altitude of , meters. Li Guopeng, from the st Geodetic Surveying Brigade, said The gravity survey bridges traditional and modern measurement technologies. With it, scientists can better analyze the data collected via the two measurements and get an even more precise result. As the force of gravity weakens slightly the higher one rises above sea level, Li said very sensitive measurements of the actual gravitational field on or near Qomolangma can be used to calculate the location of the geoida model of global mean sea level that is used to measure surface elevationbelow the summit. According to Jiang, from the academy of surveying and mapping, there was no previous record of ground gravity data from the summit of Qomolangma. But the survey in May has filled in the blank, which will not only contribute to the calculation of the mountains height, but also help us to understand the tectonic movements that lead to earthquakes, he said. Jiang said the gravity measuring equipment used in last months survey was made in China, and as it only weighed about  kg it was carried to the summit in a backpack. This domestically made device is smaller and lighter than imported units the design perfectly matched the survey this time, he said. In addition to BeiDou and the gravity survey equipment, he listed other Chinesemade devices used in the survey, including a radar to measure snow depth and a longdistance range finder. Chinese surveying and mapping technology is currently among the best in the world. Therefore, the survey conducted by the countrys leading experts in the field will be reliable and authoritative, he said. Team members at North Base Camp drink champagne to celebrate the successful ascent.?PURBU ZHAXIXINHUA Extreme conditions While thousands of climbers have reached the summit of Qomolangma since it was first conquered in , the northern route used by the Chinese survey party is regarded as one of the most difficult approaches to the top. The team members had to contend with low oxygen levels, biting cold and extreme winds as they carried the surveying equipment, which weighed about  kilograms in total, and oxygen cylinders. As technology improves, satellites, radars and gravity measuring technologies are increasingly being used to determine accurate figures. However, someone still has to carry the instruments to the summit. The surveyors beacon had to be carried to the summit by hand, said Zhang Qingtao, deputy leader of the survey team. Scaling Qomolangma is no easy task. The average air temperature at the summit is  C, four degrees lower than in Antarctica. The snow is often very deep, and hurricaneforce winds blow constantly. The team members started training in January to cope with the extreme conditions. Li, the head of the team, said professional surveyors are adept at using the advanced equipment, so the data they obtain are more reliable, scientific and convincing. He added that the surveyors experience with the equipment helped to limit the amount of time spent at the summit, reducing their exposure to the frigid temperatures and oxygenstarved environment. On May , the Ministry of Natural Resources announced that a team of  was expected to reach the summit two days later. However, three team members had no experience of climbing at above , meters. A day later, the National Meteorological Center warned that Cyclone Amphan was expected to make landfall in India and Bengal on May , bringing heavy snow to the QinghaiTibet Plateau, which could affect conditions on Qomolangma. The man team attempted to reach the summit twice, on May  and , but was beaten by adverse weather both times. After concerns were expressed about the lessexperienced members of the team, the number was reduced to eight, all seasoned highaltitude climbers. When the team reached the summit, they reverted to their professional identities as surveyors. Phurbu, an avid climber who has reached the summit  times, went without supplementary oxygen for more than  minutes so he could work more efficiently. When we were on the summit, my duties were to fix the beacon, check satellite signals and wire the surveying equipment, he said. Time was precious and the work was so important that I removed my oxygen mask so I could see the equipment more clearly. Dang said that although technology assists the surveying and mapping work, modern instruments are not currently accurate enough to replace traditional techniques, which provide much more precise data. Meanwhile, the unstable airflow, fierce winds and low temperatures, mean that drones and remote sensing satellites do not yet work at the summit of Qomolangma. Dang said the remote sensing satellite can only produce measurements accurate to about  meters, while manual surveys can reach an accuracy level of about  centimeter. However, he noted that the current development rate of surveying drones means they will be used more frequently in the future, which may result in fewer surveyors scaling the mountain to check its height. Palden Nyima contributed to this story.