Graduates set to realize their dreams
2020/6/10 7:39
Democrats propose police overhaul as White House rejects idea of defunding Attorney Ben Crump raises his fist as Philonise Floyd, brother of George Floyd, speaks during the public viewing of George Floyd in Houston on Monday. Standing on the left is Reverend Al Sharpton and in the background is George Floyds younger brother Rodney Floyd. ADREES LATIFREUTERS George Floyds funeral was scheduled to be held in his native Houston on Tuesday after mourners paid their respects to the African American whose death ignited global protests against police brutality and racism. Floyd, who was  when he was killed, was to be laid to rest next to his mother. On May , as a white Minneapolis officer pressed a knee on Floyds neck for several minutes, the dying man cried out for his mother. A public memorial service was held on Monday in Houston. Nearly , people attended. Under a blazing Texas sun, mourners gathered wearing Tshirts with Floyds picture or the words I Cant Breathea statement he cried out repeatedly while pinned down by the police officer Derek Chauvin. Chauvin, the yearold white officer who was filmed pressing his knee on the handcuffed Floyds neck for nearly nine minutes, made his first court appearance on Monday. He faces up to  years in jail if convicted on charges of seconddegree murder, thirddegree murder and manslaughter. Floyds death sparked international protests and drew new attention to the treatment of African Americans in the United States by police and the criminal justice system. Defund the police, a rallying cry from protesters angry at Floyds death in Minneapolis police custody two weeks ago, seemed to have hit a wall at the White House and on Capitol Hill on Monday, as Democratic lawmakers proposed sweeping legislation to combat police violence and racial injustice. Some demonstrators and activists clamoring for an end to police brutality have called for law enforcement budgets to be slashed, while in Minneapolis, the City Council voted on Sunday to dismantle the police department and create a new system of public safety. There wont be defunding, there wont be dismantling of our police, US President Donald Trump told a roundtable of state, federal and local law enforcement officials at the White House on Monday. According to The Associated Press, on Monday, relatives of Floyd and three other black people who were killed by police have joined nearly  rights groups to demand the top UN human rights body urgently convene a special session to look into a rise in police violence and repression of protests in the United States. High incustody death rate In a data analysis on Monday, CNN reported that the rate of incustody deaths in the US is more than double Australias and about six times that of the United Kingdoms. A media review by the Bureau of Justice Statistics found a total of , potential arrestrelated deaths in the  months from June  through March , an average of just more than four per day, according to the report. It also said that of those confronted or arrested by police, African Americans are more likely to be subjected to force, a key complaint of the protesters marching across the US. In a direct response to the mass protests, US congressional Democrats unveiled a page bill on Monday that would allow victims of misconduct and their families to sue police for damages, eliminate the qualified immunity for both police and corrections officers, prohibit racial profiling and ban choke holds. The legislation would not cut or abolish funding for police departments. US House of Representatives Speaker Nancy Pelosi suggested that defunding was not an issue for Congress. Also on Monday, World Health Organization DirectorGeneral Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said that the WHO fully supported equality and the global movement against racism. But he advised that if people did attend a protest, they should keep at least one meter from each other, clean their hands, cover coughs and wear masks, adding that those who were sick should stay home and contact a healthcare provider. Pan Mengqi in Beijing, May Zhou in Houston and agencies contributed to this story.