A healthy dose of common sense is the cure to coronavirus
2020/6/10 0:00
Editors note The world faces huge challenges during the COVID outbreak, and maybe even greater ones when it is over. Here, in the th part of a series titled One World, One Fight, we look at how countries can work together to fight the virus and meet the challenges when the pandemic ends. Hu Feifei, from Chifeng, Inner Mongolia autonomous region, had lived happily in Brazil for more than six years, starting her own business and a family. Then, the novel coronavirus pandemic struck the vast Latin American country, changing life significantly for the yearold. Before the outbreak, I operated a Chineselanguage school in Rio de Janeiro, with more than  students attending each day for a course in the language and Chinese culture, Hu said. SinoBrazilian relations have warmed in recent years, with more Chinese enterprises investing in Brazilbringing job opportunities. As a result, many Brazilians have started to become interested in learning Chinese. Last month, Brazil saw a surge in the number of confirmed COVID cases, and nearly all public schools have closed. I started to conduct my course through livestreaming on social media platforms. Surprisingly, this has attracted more students. Hus husband, Paulo, is a Brazilian. She said that since the outbreak emerged in Wuhan, Hubei province, the couple had bought thousands of face masks, using some themselves and sending others to family and friends in China. We also told our friends in Brazil to take the outbreak seriously and adopt measures to protect themselves, Hu said. She added that to safeguard her family from exposure to the virus, she has not been out of the house for more than one month, and her husband has only ventured out twiceto shop for groceries. Li Di, from Beijing, also lives in Rio de Janeiro, where he works for a Chinese infrastructurebuilding company. However, unlike Hu and her husband, he has been outdoors once a week during the outbreak. I go out to shop for food or just for a walk. I wear an N face mask and disposable gloves every time. I think its OK to go outside and breathe fresh air if we have adequate protection, Li said. He added that despite watching the news and seeing the number of confirmed cases in Brazil rise every day, his life is still relatively normal. The most important thing I have learned while working in Brazil is to be optimistic, which the locals are always telling me. They believe that humans will definitely defeat the virus, he said. Li, who has been working from home for two months, has yet to return to the office. The current situation in Rio is very serious, but recent containment measures have been strictly enforced, including lining up at supermarkets and maintaining social distancing of at least  meter, wearing masks, and disinfectant being sprayed when shopping carts are returned to a store, he said. After hitting Asia, Europe and North America, the pandemic has raged across Latin America, which is home to about  million people, and where countries are stepping up efforts to fight the outbreak. Brazil is the worsthit nation in the region. As of Monday, the number of confirmed COVID cases in the country stood at ,ranking second worldwide after the United States. A total of , people have died from the virus in Brazil. Other severelyhit countries include Peru, Ecuador and Chile. Blanket quarantine measures have been imposed, curfews enforced and most businesses closed. In Chile, home to  million people, new restrictions were imposed in Santiago, the capital, after the number of cases doubled to more than ,. Peru, which borders Brazil to the west, has the eighthhighest number of confirmed COVID cases in the world, with more than ,. Many Latin American countries are sparing no effort to introduce practical and effective measures to fight or mitigate the impact of the virus. In Rio de Janeiro last month, traffic restrictions were imposed in  districts and shops were banned from reopening. In the northeastern state of Pernambuco, the local government declared a day lockdown in Recife, the state capital, and the metropolitan area to stop the virus spreading. Brazil is also stepping up efforts to research and test vaccines. Last week, the Brazilian government authorized testing in the country of a COVID vaccine developed by the University of Oxford. The countrys National Health Surveillance Agency said the vaccine is a pioneer in the fight against the virus, and Brazil will be the second nationafter the United Kingdomto test its efficacy. Meanwhile, in Santiago, subway usage fell by  percent after President Sebastian Pinera declared a day state of catastrophe on March . Concerts and sports events have been called off in major cities across Latin America. Restaurants and bars are empty and schools have closed. In addition, Chile and other countries in the region have closed their borders and banned incoming flights, especially those from areas with severe outbreaks of COVID. In Mexico, a network of Chinesemade thermographic cameras has been set up to screen for fever, one of the main symptoms of infection. The cameras, which use infrared sensors to measure body temperature from a distance, have been installed outside shopping malls and office buildings in the capital Mexico City and in other major areas such as Monterrey and Guadalajara. In Argentina, to compensate for schools being closed, the government has launched a website program, We Continue to Educate, providing households with educational content online, as well as on public television and radio networks. Education Minister Nicolas Trotta said the site would provide all the educational tools needed to continue teaching and learning. In Colombia, the education sector is following suit, according to Luis Alfredo Tellez, head of the Department of Communications at the University of San Buenaventura in Bogota, the capital. Although the university already had some online educational material, this was insufficient, Tellez said, adding that the health crisis is a good opportunity for the institution to upgrade its online courses. Similar to the difficulties faced by many countries in the fight against the pandemic, Latin American nations are struggling with unprepared and insufficient medical supplies. Health experts have warned that this situation could accelerate transmission of the virus. For example, last month, more than  percent of intensive care beds were occupied in Santiago. In some cities in the region, doctors reported a shortage of ventilators, and said patients could not get to a hospital quickly enough. With intensive care units swamped, officials plan to move patients from national capitals, including Lima Peru and Santiago, to hospitals in smaller cities that are not as busy. However, they are running the risk of spreading the disease further. Health workers have also complained of limited access to testing and of being overworked to the point of collapse. Shocking levels The high rate of infection at markets in Latin America is another reason for the surge in the number of confirmed COVID cases. At a major fruit market in Lima, four out of five merchants tested positive for the virus, revealing shocking levels of infection and prompting fears that traditional trading centers may have helped spread the disease across the region. Some  percent of stall holders at the wholesale market tested positive for COVID, while spot tests at five other large fresh food markets in the city showed at least  percent of people were infected with the virus. The Guardian quoted a former deputy mayor of Lima as saying, The contagion among merchants is terribly high and we dont know how long theyve had it or how many people theyve passed it on to. The Corabastos wholesale market in Bogotathe largest in Colombiais the epicenter of the outbreak in the country. The vast area was reportedly advised to operate at just  percent of capacity after dozens of cases were detected there. The few customers still going to the market have reportedly failed to observe social distancing or wear face masks. In Beijing, Pan Deng, executive director of the Latin America and Caribbean Region Law Center at China University of Political Science and Law, said the coronavirus outbreak is a big challenge for public health systems in Latin America. The regions economy relies heavily on the international market and external funds, and the outbreak has disrupted normal operation of the worlds economic structure and supply chains. In the early stages of the outbreak, many countries in the region were faced with a shortage of materials and testing kits, which was not conducive to quickly controlling the pandemic, Pan said. In addition, some lifestyles and social habits in Latin America, such as the preference for outdoor activities and social gatherings, has made it difficult for governments to enforce quarantine measures, Pan said. Wang Huizhi, an assistant researcher in the Latin American and Caribbean Department at the China Institute of International Studies, said that during the global battle against the virus, Latin America is not fighting alone, with many countriesincluding Chinaproviding assistance. Given the virulent nature of the virus and the fact that no country has dealt with it before and can beat it alone, China has shared its experience in fighting it with many Latin American countries and has quickly provided medical supplies to help our friends overcome their difficulties, Wang said. In March, a contingent of Chinese medical specialists, doctors and scientists was despatched to Latin American countries, with Venezuela its first destination. Venezuelan Foreign Affairs Minister Jorge Arreaza said, With the experience that China has been able to gather in recent months, we know that many lives will be saved. The second Chinese medical team to visit the region left for Peru on May  on a mission organized by the National Health Commission. Team members were selected by the Guangdong provincial health commission. Foreign Ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian said China would continue to support Latin American countries fighting the pandemic by sharing knowledge of prevention, diagnosis and treatment, providing epidemic prevention material and helping to obtain supplies. In March, the Jack Ma Foundation and Alibaba Foundation donated medical supplies to  Latin American countries to help contain COVID. Some  million face masks, , test kits and  ventilators were provided for the nations, which included Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Cuba, Ecuador, the Dominican Republic and Peru. Announcing the donations on Twitter, Jack Ma, cofounder and former executive chairman of Alibaba Group, said We will ship longdistance, and we will hurry! WE ARE ONE! Catalina Bedoya, an epidemiologist at Mederi University Hospital in Bogota, said Latin American governments can learn from Chinas experience in tackling the pandemic. Once the Chinese authorities realized that they were facing a novel coronavirus outbreak in the central city of Wuhan, they acted swiftly and decisively to contain it. China demonstrated its capacity to build hospitals in  days and its determination to save the lives of all COVID patients, Bedoya said. Dual pressure Fernando Ferry, an infectious diseases expert in Brazil, said Chinas strict quarantine and containment measures, in particular, should be adopted in Latin America before the pandemic escalates. COVID is a disease with a high rate of transmission ... so we either follow the Chinese model of containment or see many more victims, he said. Wang, from the China Institute of International Studies, said Latin American countries are facing the dual pressure of fighting the virus and reviving their economies. On the one hand, the region needs to strengthen its health systems to cope with the crisis. On the other, economic and social measures are needed to mitigate the enormous negative consequences of isolation, Wang said. This is not just a test for governments in Latin America, but a test for the rest of the world. It will be a test of whether governments can continue to deal with other countries in a multilateral and humanitarian manner, maintain global economic stability and jointly combat the epidemic under the impact of the economic downturn. Xinhua and Agencies contributed to this story. panmengqichinadaily.com.cn ? A makeshift hospital is set up to treat COVID patients in Santiago, Chile. XINHUA ? ? Roberto Ruiz talks to his mother, Elena Filippi, , through a transparent screen at a retirement home in Vina del Mar, Chile, on May Mothers Day. RODRIGO GARRIDOREUTERS ? ? Chinese medical supplies arrive in Quito, Ecuador, on April . XINHUA ? ? A group of Colombians living temporarily at Guarulhos International Airport, near Sao Paulo, Brazil, line up to receive food donations on May . AMANDA PEROBELLIREUTERS ? ? Taxi drivers wait for customers in the domestic flights arrival area at Arturo Merino Benitez International Airport, Santiago, on May . IVAN ALVARADOREUTERS ? ? An assistant at a store in Mariscal Sucre International Airport in Quito, Ecuador, awaits customers on June  after the airport reopened. DOLORES OCHOAAP ? ?