Australia should show more sincerity in ties with China
2020/6/10 0:00
New York City put three months of a COVID lockdown behind it on Monday to makeor at least trya comeback. As many as , workers in retail, construction, manufacturing and other sectors were expected to get back to work as phase one of the citys reopening started in all five boroughs, but with restrictions to protect workers, employers and customers from becoming infected with the novel coronavirus. Theres no set timetable for when the city will go to the second phase of reopening, but that could come as soon as July if there isnt a sudden spike in COVID cases. Businesses that could reopen in that second phase include business offices, real estate brokers, car dealers, hair salons, barber shops, retail rental, repair and cleaning, outdoor dining and commercial building management. The citys comeback wont be easy. A report by its Independent Budget Office estimates the Big Apple will lose , jobs over the next  months. It predicts the city wont begin to add jobs again until the second quarter of next year. The citys budget shortfall for fiscal years  and  is expected to come in at . billion. Sales tax revenues are now expected to decline by . billion for fiscal  and , as businesses closed, and city residents stayed home. Personal income tax revenue is expected to fall short by more than  billion between fiscal  and  as withholding tax ceased for the many residents who lost jobs. Pickup station Phase one, which started on Monday, allows retail stores to reopen for business, but they cant allow shoppers inside. Sales must occur through a curbside or instore pickup station. Customers picking up items must stand in line with designated markings to keep them . meters apart. Retailers can only employ enough workers to operate the pickup station. Inside the stores, personnel must wear face masks at all times and be kept . meters apart or separated by clear plastic partitions if its impossible to meet the social distancing guidelines. Building constructioninterior and exteriorwill resume. Workers will need to practice social distancing and wear masks on the job. The number of workers will be limited. There must be regular daily cleaning and disinfection of the job sites, along with handsanitizing stations. Factories and warehouses can resume manufacturing and wholesale trade in fields that include apparel, computer and electronic products, electric lighting equipment, fabricated metals, furniture and related products, leather and allied products, machinery, nonmetallic mineral products, paper, petroleum and coal products, plastic and rubber products, printing and related support, textiles and wood. The Metropolitan Transportation Authority, or MTA, resumed normal weekday subway and bus services on Monday but will keep subway stations closed from  am to  am for disinfecting. It urged all riders to wear a mask while using public transport. New York Governor Andrew Cuomo and New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio assured residents that the subways and buses will be safe to travel on as phase one started. If it wasnt safe, I wouldnt ask anyone to go on the subway, Cuomo said at his daily media briefing on Monday. To reassure New Yorkers that they can practice social distancing while traveling underground, Cuomo wore a mask and rode the subway from Queens to Midtown Manhattan on Monday. Today, I took a ride on the  train, Cuomo said. The subways are cleaner than they have ever been in my lifetime. Since Saturday, the MTA, which runs the citys subway, buses and trains, has performed , station cleanings and , subway car cleanings. The MTA is also piloting the use of UV light technology to disinfect subway cars and crew facilities. But in New York state, still the epicenter of the US outbreak, with more than , infections and , deaths, of them in New York City alonesome residents fear it could be difficult to practice social distancing on a subway system that normally carries . million riders a day. belindarobinsonchinadailyusa.com ? Commuters arrive at Grand Central Station with MetroNorth during morning rush hour in New York, on Monday. ANGELA WEISSAFP ? ?