Pakistani economic corridor powers ahead despite outbreak
2020/6/10 0:00
For business manager Fazal Rahim, operations at the Port Qasim Power Plant he helps oversee in southern Pakistan havent skipped a beat even as all precautions have been taken against the coronavirus. Rest assured, COVID has not even slowed down the pace of work here, he said. Credit goes to the management and the workers, both Pakistanis and Chinese. Of the , employees at the plant in Karachi,  are Chinese. Stable operations continue at Port Qasim Power Plant. Not a single worker has contracted the virus so far, said Xi Peng, deputy chief representative of Power Construction Cooperation of China in Pakistan. We have made sure every worker complies with standard operation procedures to keep the virus at bay. All employees are following the necessary precautionary measures such as wearing masks in public places, washing hands on a frequent basis and avoiding gatherings. As an independent power producer, the coalfired power plant is just one of a number of energy projects emerging in the ChinaPakistan Economic Corridor, or CPEC. It has been jointly developed by Powerchina Resources Limited China and Al Mirqab Capital Qatar Qatar. It is projected to meet the electricity demands of  million households when completed. Since operations started in April , we have steadily increased the ratio of Pakistani employees, especially from technical operations, to pool the talents of Pakistans young generation, Xi said. Apart from posts in engineering management, locals are working as skilled workers and logistics service providers. Rahim, for one, is glad to work there. The Chinese are the best workers in the world. Their dedication and commitment to work has almost transformed the dream of the CPEC into a reality. One such Chinese worker is Hu Ling, manager of the corporate culture department at the plant, who chose to stay during Chinese New Year in January. One needs to serve the company with devotion and enthusiasm, Hu said over the phone. We have to accomplish the CPEC. I always keep in touch with my family by video call. Although the epidemic is relatively severe, I firmly believe that with wise decisionmaking, the whole societys unity and strong support of the people from all walks of life, we can surely overcome the epidemic. Mohammad Saad, a senior Pakistani official, said The CPEC is a priority. We have made sure that the COVID pandemic doesnt affect progress on projects under the CPEC. On the way to completion Various other projects under the CPEC are on the way to completion. Pakistani authorities said last week that work on the Western Route of the CPEC was in full swing. A fourlane expressway from Hakla, near the capital Islamabad, to Dera Ismail Khan in the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Province is due to be completed next year. It will cut travel time from  hours to andahalf hours, according to Asim Saleem Bajwa, a retired lieutenantgeneral who is the special assistant to the prime minister on information and broadcasting. Experts believe the kilometer Western Route of the CPEC will help usher in an era of economic prosperity in some of the countrys most underdeveloped regions. Work on the Suki KinariKP Hydel Power Project, with a capacity of  megawatts, is steadily progressing. Bajwa said recently that  percent of the work had been completed. In the city of Multan, a roadway known as PKMundertaken by the China State Construction Engineering Corporation, or CSCECis the largest transportation infrastructure project to come on line in the CPEC. Since opening to traffic on Nov , it has become the countrys most advanced motorway. Our company highly values the health and safety of every employee, the Pakistan Observer newspaper quoted the Pakistani logistics supervisorwhose family name was given as Muzzamilas saying at the main camp of the CSCEC PKM project. After the coronavirus broke out in Pakistan, company officials carried out epidemicprevention measures, while implementing a fully closed management and bringing in thorough disinfection processes. Details such as body temperature of workers have been logged daily. All personnel followed the epidemic prevention requirements, and so no case of infection has occurred in our camp, Muzzamil added. ? Two cooling towers are seen in the Sahiwal Thermal Power Plant in the Pakistani city of that name in August. The coalfired plant, which generated  billion kWh of electricity in , is among a number of energy projects along the ChinaPakistan Economic Corridor. XINHUA ? ?