BYD to ship m N masks to California in coming days
2020/6/9 18:59
BYD, Chinas biggest electric vehicle maker, churns out face masks and disinfectant liquid on Feb . Photo provided to chinadaily.com.cn LOS ANGELES  Chinas new energy vehicle manufacturer BYD Company will begin shipping  million N masks to the US state of California in the coming days for distribution to frontline medics, Governor Gavin Newsoms office said Monday. The new batch of N masks is coming after  million surgical masks from BYD have already been distributed to help sectors in California reopen safely, according to a statement from the governors office. Newsom announced that Californiabased BYD North America has received certification from the US National Institute of Occupational Safety and Health NIOSH to produce N respirators for the state, the statement said. N masks can provide medical workers with better protection than loosefitting surgical masks from coronavirus infection. California and many other US states have faced a shortage of medical supplies, including N masks and surgical masks, since COVID broke out in the country. California Governors Office of Emergency Services had made NIOSH certification of N masks an explicit requirement of the contract with BYD so that Californias doctors, nurses and other frontline workers can be confident that the N masks they receive from the state are of the highest quality and meet federal health and safety standards. Providing Californias frontline health care workers and responders the protective equipment they need is a critical part of our response to COVID. This new supply of N masks, as well as the surgical masks this contract has already provided, are gamechanging and play a crucial role in our states public safety and reopening strategy, said Newsom. With the certification now in hand, as outlined in the contract, BYD will produce and ship  million N masks to the state for distribution to health care workers and those identified by health officials as requiring respiratorstyle masks, according to the statement. The first shipment of N masks produced as part of this contract are expected to arrive in the coming days. The contract will ensure that the state has a sufficient supply of masks going forward should there be need for them in the future, said the statement. Newsoms office noted that Californias contract with BYD is part of a wider effort by the state administration to prioritize the procurement and dispersal of critical personal protective equipment and other emergency assets and commodities to protect public health and safety. Californias agreement with BYD has yielded more than  million surgical masks with more coming in nearly every day, the office said. The most populous US state has distributed BYD surgical masks to aid workers across sectors of society, including ,, for agriculture, ,, for education, ,, for retail, ,, for nonemergency medical and ,, for public health. California, one of the hardesthit US states in the coronavirus pandemic, has reported , cases with , deaths as of Monday night, according to the Center for Systems Science and Engineering at Johns Hopkins University.