BYD claims to be among worlds biggest mask makers
2020/6/9 14:46
A medical staffer collects swab samples from a citizen in Heilongjiang provinces Suifenhe on April , . Photo by Li Guangqingfor chinadaily.com.cn The city of Mudanjiang, Heilongjiang province, reported no positive coronavirus tests for the first week of June. No symptoms of the coronavirus were found among the , residents tested between June  and June ,Wang Wenli, the mayor of Mudanjiang, said at a news conference on Monday. Nineteen asymptomatic cases were found, and all have been placed in quarantine. The asymptomatic patients are receiving treatment that combines traditional Chinese medicine and Western medicine to prevent the onset of symptoms, Wang added. As of Monday, eight asymptomatic patients tested negative for the novel coronavirus two consecutive times. As of the end of March, imported COVID cases had been increasing in Suifenhe, a countylevel city under Mudanjiang, and all patients had been sent to a designated hospital. Even though all the patients recovered and were discharged from the hospital, the citys comprehensive carrying capacity is still under great pressure, Wang said. In addition, three ports in Suifenhe and Dongning remain open for crossborder freight vehicles, bringing a risk of transmission. The city reported a total of  new asymptomatic infections from May  to  after testing , residents at high risk. The Heilongjiang provincial government is supporting the city in the testing campaign. The citys health commission organized a team of , workers from  medical institutions across the city to collect samples. With the help of testing labs across the province, the citys daily testing capacity improved to , from the previous ,. In addition, teams collected  samples from  public areas, including bus stations, shopping malls, restaurants and parks. All came back negative for the coronavirus. Residents should continue to stick to good habits, including maintaining good hygiene, wearing masks and avoiding gatherings, said Liu Yancheng, an official of the Heilongjiang health commission.