SubSaharan Africas economy to contract by .  in
2020/6/9 14:39
Women wearing protective masks kneel to pray in between social distancing markers placed on pews as a safety measure against the coronavirus disease COVID, in St. Peter Parish in Quezon City, Metro Manila, Philippines, June , .  MANILA  The Philippines has signed an agreement with the Asian Infrastructure Development Bank AIIB committing the multilateral lender to extend a loan of  million to support government efforts to mitigate the COVID outbreak. The Philippine Department of Finance DOF said on Tuesday that it intends to use the new loan to augment the funds needed to slow down the viral transmission and implement an economic recovery plan design to fuel growth and create jobs. This loan accord cements AIIBs commitment to cofinance with the Asian Development Bank ADB the Philippines COVID Active Response and Expenditure Support CARES program, a quickdisbursing budget support facility designed to fund the governments efforts to combat COVID and mitigate the adverse impact of the contagion on the economy, the DOF said in a statement. The loan package from the AIIB will help augment our funding requirements necessary to mitigate the severe negative impact of COVID on our people and our economy, Dominguez said, adding the new loan will go a long way in helping the Philippine economy recover and emerge stronger after the crisis. The DOF said it expects the full disbursement of the  million AIIB loan within this June. The AIIB loan carries a maturity period of  years inclusive of a threeyear grace period. Philippine Finance Secretary Carlos Dominguez signed an agreement last month with ADB Country Director for the Philippines Kelly Bird that would enable the government to access up to . billion in budgetary support from the bank to augment funds for the CARES program. This ADB loan for the CARES program is under the Banks Countercyclical Support Facility Pandemic Response Option CPRO. According to the AIIB, its budgetary support for the CARES program is part of its coordinated international effort to counter the COVID pandemic. Under its COVID Crisis Recovery Facility, the AIIB has committed an initial  billion to  billion to support AIIB members urgent economic, financial, and public health needs and quick recovery from the crisis. The AIIBs cofinancing for the CARES program is the second loan it has extended to the Philippines. The Philippines continues to grapple with the social and economic impact triggered by the COVID lockdown imposed in midMarch. At least . million Filipinos lost their jobs in April  as the unemployment rate in the Philippines rose to a record high . percent in April  due to the economic slowdown triggered by the COVID lockdown, the Philippine Statistics Authority PSA said on June .