UK winning battle against the virus, says govt
2020/6/9 13:42
People wait for the train at Times Square during rush hour on the first day of phase one of the reopening after the coronavirus lockdown on June ,  in New York City.? New York City put three months of a COVID lockdown behind it on Monday to make  or at least try  a comeback. As many as , workers in retail, construction, manufacturing and other sectors were expected to get back to work as phase one of the citys reopening started in all five boroughs, but with restrictions to protect workers, employers and customers from becoming infected with the novel coronavirus. Theres no set timetable for when the city will go to the second phase of reopening, but that could come as soon as July if there isnt a sudden spike in COVID cases. Businesses that could reopen in that second phase include business offices, real estate brokers, car dealers, hair salons, barber shops, retailrental repair and cleaning, outdoor dining and commercial building management. The citys comeback wont be easy. A report by the citys Independent Budget Office estimates the Big Apple will lose , jobs over the next  months. It predicts the city wont begin to add jobs again until the second quarter of next year. The citys budget shortfall for fiscal years  and  is expected to come in at . billion. Sales tax revenues are now expected to decline by . billion for fiscal  and , as businesses closed, and city residents stayed home. Personal income tax revenue is expected to fall short by more than  billion between fiscal  and  as withholding ceased for the many residents who lost jobs. Phase one, which started Monday, allows retail stores to reopen for business, but they cant allow shoppers inside. Sales must occur through a curbside or instore pickup station. Customers picking up items must stand in line with designated markings to keep them  feet apart. Retailers can only employ enough workers to operate the pickup station. Inside the stores, personnel must wear face masks at all times and be kept  feet apart or separated by clear plastic partitions if its impossible to meet the social distancing guidelines. Building construction  interior and exterior will resume. Workers will need to practice social distancing and wear masks on the job. The number of workers will be limited. There must be regular daily cleaning and disinfection of the job sites, along with handsanitizing stations. Factories and warehouses can resume manufacturing and wholesale trade in fields that include apparel, computer and electronic products, electric lighting equipment, fabricated metals, furniture and related products, leather and allied products, machinery, nonmetallic mineral products, paper, petroleum and coal products, plastic and rubber products, printing and related support, textiles and wood. The Metropolitan Transportation Authority MTA resumed normal weekday subway and bus service Monday but will keep subway stations closed from  am to  am for disinfecting. It urged all riders to wear a mask while using public transit. New York Governor Andrew Cuomo and New York Mayor Bill de Blasio assured residents that the subways and buses will be safe to travel on as phase one started. If it wasnt safe, I wouldnt ask anyone to go on the subway, Cuomo said at his daily media briefing Monday. To reassure New Yorkers that they can practice social distancing while traveling underground, Cuomo wore a mask and rode the subway from Queens to Midtown Manhattan on Monday. Today, I took a ride on the  train, Cuomo said. The subways are cleaner than they have ever been in my lifetime. Since May , the MTA, which runs the citys subway, buses and trains, has performed , station cleanings and , subway car cleanings. The MTA is also piloting the use of UV light technology to disinfect subway cars and crew facilities. In other safety measures to stop the spread of COVID, the transit system unveiled social distancing markings on platforms to show people where to stand to keep  feet apart from others. But in New York state, still the epicenter of the US outbreak, with more than , infections and , deaths  , of them in New York City alone  some residents fear it could be difficult to practice social distancing on a subway system that normally carries . million riders a day. If the New York City subway system wasnt a total sewer to begin with, this wouldnt be so absurd, one person tweeted. A user called RJ tweeted Im not big on masks at all but if I had to ride the subway, Id wear one. The subway is the belly of the best.