Shared commitment to community with a shared future
2020/6/9 11:25
LI XINFOR CHINA DAILY ChinaMexico comprehensive strategic partnership has been strengthened as they have stood shoulder to shoulder in fight against the pandemic To date, more than  million cases of the COVID infection have been confirmed globally. Almost every corner of the world has been hit by this black swan event. At the darkest moment of the pandemic, China and Mexico have stood shoulder to shoulder in the face of difficulties. This not only reflects the deep friendship between our two peoples and the deep roots of our friendship, but also serves as exemplary practice for building a community with a shared future for mankind. In the early stages of the public health crisis in China, when the country was at its most critical moment, Mexican friends showed precious solidarity and support. Mexican President Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador repeatedly expressed his opposition to discrimination against Chinese citizens. Leaders of the Mexican parliament, political parties, senior officials from the foreign ministry, health ministry and other ministries highly appreciated Chinas timely, efficient and responsible measures and affirmed the Chinese governments efforts in fighting against the pandemic. Many people in Mexico have sent letters and messages to express its concern and support to the Chinese people. Some Mexican friends voluntarily bought masks and other antipandemic materials and sent them to China. Mexican lawmakers, students and ordinary people recorded videos using plain language and sincere smiles, and the words Go Wuhan, Go China. A friend in need is a friend indeed. We will never forget the friendship of the Mexican government and people in helping China. Mexico is now one of the hardest hit countries in Latin America. So far, more than , people have been confirmed infected in Mexico. China sympathizes with Mexicos difficulties and challenges in its fight against the pandemic and is ready to do its best to help. In April, Chinese President Xi Jinping and President Lopez talked over the phone and reached an important consensus on strengthening exchanges and cooperation in the fight against COVID, public health and other fields and pushing for the indepth development of bilateral relations. Chinese State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi also had a phone call with Mexican Foreign Minister Marcelo Ebrard Casaubon and had indepth exchanges on implementing the consensus reached by the leaders of the two countries. With Chinas assistance, Mexico has built an air bridge and transported urgentlyneeded supplies from China. So far, Mexicana Airlines has flown  charter flights, delivering more than  metric tons of medical supplies. China and Mexico have also organized videoconferences on COVID and invited wellknown Chinese experts to share their experience in prevention and control, diagnosis and treatment. Chinese local governments, enterprises and overseas Chinese in Mexico have expressed solidarity with the Mexican side and donated antipandemic materials. Chinese companies in Mexico are also actively engaged in local antipandemic activities in line with their business characteristics. For example, ridehailing service provider Didi offers free transportation services for medical workers in Mexico and provides pandemic prevention alerts on its own platform. In addition, the two countries have maintained close communication and coordination under the framework of the United Nations, G and other multilateral platforms to promote international cooperation to fight against the pandemic. They have firmly supported the World Health Organization playing a leading and coordinating role in the global disease resistance, and jointly promoted the Mexican initiative of equity in the access of medicine, vaccines and medical equipment around the world, which has been passed by the UN General Assembly. On behalf of the Mexican government and people, Foreign Minister Ebrard expressed heartfelt thanks to China at the launching ceremony of the air bridge for the second phase of pandemic prevention supplies hosted by the Mexican Foreign Ministry. He said that China has provided crucial support for Mexicos fight against the pandemic, which has boosted the confidence of the Mexican government and people in overcoming the pandemic. Thanks to their mutual support during the pandemic, the friendship between the Chinese and Mexican peoples has been strengthened and will surely help elevate ChinaMexico comprehensive strategic partnership to a new level. The pandemic has warned us at the cost of human lives that countries should transcend the differences of region, ethnicity, history, culture, and even social systems and join hands to build a community with a shared future for mankind and safeguard our only planet. We would like to work with our Mexican friends to promote the sustained and indepth development of ChinaMexico relations, work together more closely to win the fight against COVID, and build a longlasting, peaceful, inclusive and clean world with common security and shared prosperity. The author is the Chinese ambassador to Mexico. The author contributed this article to China Watch, a think tank powered by China Daily. The views do not necessarily reflect those of China Daily.