Japanese economy shrinks less than experts estimated
2020/6/9 10:14
Japans economy contracted less than initially estimated in the first quarter, revised data showed, despite experts predicting a sharper drop because of the coronavirus outbreak. ? A shopper, wearing a protective mask, looks at shelves at a supermarket, following the outbreak of coronavirus disease COVID, in Tokyo, Japan April , .  The revised report by Japans Cabinet Office on Monday, showed the countrys GDP shrank an annualized . percent compared with the last quarter of , a milder decline than the preliminary estimate of a . percent contraction. According to the report, the revision mainly came from capital expenditure, which grew . percent in the JanuaryMarch period, a significant rise from the preliminary estimate of a . percent drop. Meanwhile, investment based on longterm business plans in Japan like real estate has been solid, the report said. However, despite the upward revision, Japan remains in an apparent recession, meaning its economy has shrunk for two straight quarters, with an even sharper drop expected in the AprilJune period. The upward revision in firstquarter GDP is cold comfort and many were casting doubt about its accuracy due to the unusually strong business investment readings, said Zhou Xuan, the chief consultant of Nomura Securities, in Tokyo. Zhou said that although the Japanese government was trying to gradually revive economic activities, and had already lifted the state of emergency nationwide, a full rebound to previrus levels would not come any time soon. Japans economy will likely to suffer more because it will take quite a long time for business to return to preCOVID levels. Especially when the threat of another wave of infections lingers around, he added. Zhous estimate was echoed by a midMay survey conducted by the Japan Center for Economic Research, in which  economists forecast that Japans economy was expected to contract . percent over AprilJune. Rebound expected According to the GDP statistics released on Monday, household spending declined . percent in Japan and private residential investment was down . percent, due to stayathome and business closure requests that began in March. To this, Takeshi Minami, the chief economist of Norinchukin Research Institute, said in an interview with Reuters that private consumption in Japan could return in the JulySeptember period. Growth may rebound over JulySeptember driven by private consumption. But capital expenditure could slow by then. We need to be mindful of the risk that economic activity could slump again if Japan is hit by a second wave of infections, Minami said. The risk of a second wave of infections had been lingering since the country came out of its state of emergency, with Tokyo reporting at least  new cases almost every day. Japan has been less affected by the virus compared with other advanced economies, with nearly , cases and around  deaths.