Chinese medical expert team arrives in Bangladesh to help fight COVID
2020/6/9 9:53
Goalkeeper Erin McLeod, who backstopped Team Canada in four FIFA Womens World Cup tournaments and two Olympics, is pumped about resuming training with the Orlando Pride of the National Womens Soccer League. The NWSL announced this week it will resume play by launching a game tournament later this month, making it the first North American team sport to return to competition during the coronavirus pandemic. My initial reaction was, I just love to play, McLeod, who won bronze at the  London Olympics, told the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation on the weekend. Health is everyones main concern right now and its nice to know theres the opportunity to play competitively while being in a really safe environment. Ive been incredibly impressed with the medical side of things and the attention to detail. A lot of mixed emotions for sure, but if you know me, I feel like Im five years old again. Im always excited to play soccer when I can. The yearold native of St. Albert, Alberta, is one of  Canadians playing in the nineteam NWSL, a list that includes longtime national team stars Christine Sinclair Portland Thorns, Sophie Schmidt Houston Dash and Diana Matheson and Desiree Scott Utah Royals FC. The Challenge Cup, which will run June  through July , will see all teams stay and play in facilities on the outskirts of Salt Lake City, Utah. Each team will play four groupstage matches, with the top eight advancing to a singleelimination format. All games will be televised and streamed by CBS and its online and broadcast affiliateswith no fans in the stands. All players and team personnel will be tested for COVID before leaving for Utah, and will be regularly screened throughout the tournament. The league is covering the travel costs for  players and seven staff members from each team, and there will be five substitutions per match to counteract fatigue. Regardless of whether or not they see action, all players have guaranteed salaries and insurance, and they are free to opt out of the tournament at any time if they have concerns about their safety. Since suspending its season on March , the NWSL and its commissioner Lisa Baird, along with the players association and a task force of  medical specialists have worked together to establish protocols for a return to play. It was ramped up last week with training for groups of up to eight players, who must wear masks and undergo temperature screening upon entry into the practice facilities. Coaches, athletic trainers, sport scientists, team physicians and equipment managers are allowed onsite as essential staff. It isnt too different  except threequarters of the team is missing, McLeod said with a laugh. Considering everything, I think our club has done a really good job of keeping as much normalcy as possible. Once a team has completed five days of smallgroup sessions, they can move onto fullsquad training, using the same precautions.