Dprinted goggles aid medical workers
2020/6/9 9:48
? Demonstrators wearing protective face masks with the message I cant breathe attend a protest against the death in Minneapolis police custody of George Floyd, in Los Angeles, California, US June , .  Health experts in the United States continue to emphasize the need for, and effectiveness of, wearing face masks to help protect against the spread of the novel coronavirus. In a study commissioned by the World Health Organization and published on Monday in the medical journal The Lancet, researchers found that face coverings and masks reduced the spread of the virus by up to  percent. The WHO said a mask combined with social distancing and frequent handwashing is beneficial but not  percent effective. Although distancing, face masks and eye protection were each highly protective, none made individuals totally impervious from COVID infection, wrote study lead author Derek Chu, a clinicianscientist in the department of medicine at McMaster University in Canada. US President Donald Trump tours medical equipment distributor Owens  Minor in Allentown, Pennsylvania, US, May , .  Some conservatives have argued that masks are being used to control the public. US President Donald Trump has refused to be seen wearing a mask in public, though he wore one while out of view during a May visit to a Ford plant in Michigan that was making medical equipment. The president retweeted mockery of Joe Biden, the Democrats presumptive  presidential nominee, for wearing a mask at a Memorial Day celebration. The original tweet, from conservative columnist Lee Smith, said Masks arent about public health but social control. Image of Biden in black mask endorses culture of silence, slavery, and social death. Columnist Molly McCann, writing in The Federalist, a conservative publication, said that making people wear masks was antiAmerican Mandatory masks are a critical predicate conditioning us to accept abuses of our liberty. Nearly , Americans have died from COVID, and nearly  million had been infected as of Sunday. Worldwide, there have been nearly  million cases and more than , deaths, according to data from Johns Hopkins University. The WHO has advised that an N maskthe type used in medical settingsprovides the best form of protection, although many people opt for fabric masks, which are easier to use and acquire. Various N respiration masks at a laboratory of M, which has been contracted by the US government to produce extra masks in response to the countrys novel coronavirus outbreak, in Maplewood, Minnesota, US March , .  In April, US Surgeon General Jerome Adams appeared in a video tutorial on how to make fabric face masks. But critics noted that this represented a reversal from February, when hed tweeted STOP BUYING N MASKS! They are NOT effective in preventing general public from catchingCoronavirus, but if healthcare providers cant get them to care for sick patients, it puts them and our communities at risk! William Schaffner, a professor of preventive medicine and infectious diseases at Vanderbilt University Medical Center in Nashville, Tennessee, told China Daily We in infectious diseases and public health  think that masks are absolutely fundamental to trying to reduce the transmission of the COVID virus. That is because we are aware that a large proportionperhaps over a third of COVID infectionsare without symptoms. Were really promoting the use of masks, and the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention does, too, in order to prevent transmission to others. That is, Im wearing the mask to protect you and You wear the mask to protect me. Of course, the mask provides me some protection also. The main reason for wearing one is that in the event that I have an infection and Im not aware of it, I will not transmit it to you. Deborah Birx, the response coordinator for the White House Coronavirus Task Force, is also a supporter of masks. She has said there was clear scientific evidence from multiple experiments that masks prevent infectious droplets from reaching others. Anthony Fauci, director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases and also a member of the White House task force, said in May, I want to protect myself and protect others, and also because I want to make it be a symbol for people to see that thats the kind of thing you should be doing. New York Governor Andrew Cuomo exits a  Subway train in Manhattan on the first day of New York Citys phase one reopening during the outbreak of the coronavirus disease COVID in New York City, New York, US, June , .  New York Governor Andrew Cuomo has also repeatedly touted the benefits of masks. He signed an executive order on May  that said New York shop owners can deny entry to anyone not wearing a face covering. On April , Cuomo ordered New York residents over the age of  to cover their nose and mouth with a mask or cloth while in public spaces. Ive been working to communicate this message about masks and how effective they are, Cuomo said. They are deceptively effective. They are amazingly effective. The United States and other Western countries have been slow to adopt face masks, while governments in Asia, including China and South Korea, urged residents to wear masks early in the pandemic. Ivan Hung, an infectious diseases specialist at the Hong Kong University School of Medicine, told CNN If you look at the data in Hong Kong, wearing a mask is probably the most important thing in terms of infection control.