TV viewers in UK tune into hit program looking at China life
2020/6/9 7:39
A screenshot from A Bite of China, one of the documentaries showcasing Chinese culture on China Hour program on Sky TV.?Photo provided to China Daily LONDONLockdown rules are being relaxed in many parts of Britain, but crossborder travel is still largely limited. An increasing number of Britons are now turning to TV or going online to watch Chinarelated content. China Hour, a program on Sky TV, has hit its record high viewing in Britain, offering Britons a special window to the oriental country and its culture during the lockdown. Jointly run by China International Television Corp and Dove Media Ltd UK, the ratings have shot up since the end of March when Britain began its lockdown. According to figures obtained by Dove Media, its March viewings saw a dramatic increase of nearly  percent compared to that of February. Figures in April again went far beyond average, . times higher than the previous month. Broadcasting four hours a day on the Sky Showcase channel, the program reached a weekly average of , people in April. Per hour, the figure is much higher than popular channels such as Discovery and History. Given that people can hardly go out, let alone travel during lockdown, China Hour works with the China National Tourist Office in London on the visiting China online campaign, offering audiences the opportunity to experience China from their comfortable living rooms. China Hour embraced the opportunity when its British audience was staying home. On China Hours YouTube channel, viewing went up more than  percent. In April alone, the minutes watched reached as high as  million, says Kevin Sui, CEO of Dove Media. It is true that the lockdown contributed to a longer TV watching time among the public, however the increase was also attributed to the highquality content from CITVC and our skilful schedules, he adds. He discloses that China Hours performance remains consistent in , like it was in the second half of last year. While some classic programs stay popular, shows along with new themes have all been well received, including the Chinese New Year series, Silk Road series and some other cultural and travel programs. Thanks to the team efforts in scheduling, promotion, translation and dubbing, the Chinese New Year special shows aired in January and February have achieved satisfactory figures, reflecting the audiences keen interest in Chinese folk culture. Among the most popular programs during the lockdown period are historical and cultural shows, including History of Great Wall, Furniture Chinese Style, The Legend of Bruce Lee, Chinese Garden, Tea Story of a Leaf UK localized version, as well as new programs such as Secrets of China, Chef Jamies Adventure and All About Embroidery. In addition, Xiaoji and the Dog, an animation series dubbed by Dove Media for the British market, also attracted a strong following from young audiences. It is worth mentioning that the Lockdown Wuhan series broadcast in March and April attracted the audiences special attention, playing a unique role in unveiling the Chinese narration of the epidemic to the world in this time of crisis. While keeping the original style of the series, the team performed further editing of some detailsfrom visual language to the proper way of wearing a mask, taking a full consideration of British audiences receptiveness and TV viewing habits. The Lockdown Wuhan eventually received figures that are hard to achieve for a single episode program, getting an audience of around ,. For the post coronavirus era, Sui says China Hour is committed to continuing to provide British audiences with a wider range of programs including a cooking show to teach how to prepare Chinese dishes out of ingredients in an ordinary British kitchen. Trevor Wicks, a senior financial advisor, says he switched to Sky solely for watching China Hour, and it helps him understand more about Chinese culture and history, as well as different parts of China. This has been a real help with my ongoing project in Shanghai, he says.