China Hour offers window on Chinese culture to UK audience amid COVID lockdown
2020/6/9 7:20
Life is inching back to normal in Hong Kong. The city seems to have survived the double whammy of antigovernment demonstrations that flared up in June last year and have continued well into the current year, followed by the COVID pandemic. People around the world, as indeed Hong Kong residents themselves, wonder if the city can ever make a full recovery and regain the peace and prosperity it enjoyed for many years. There are precedents to suggest this might be possible. Hong Kong has been historically resilient to attempts to destabilize its integrity. It has been through potentially debilitating crises such as the Japanese occupation from  to . The coming collapse of Hong Kong has been predicted by selfstyled pundits several times over. But the naysayers were proved wrong in each case. The trauma and terror seen on the citys streets were consigned to memory once the storm blew over. Hong Kong picked up the pieces and moved on. A similar intent is visible in the citys people, most of whom have resumed their normal routine. Hong Kong is beginning to look a lot like what it was before the protests started  except of course for the ubiquitous surgical masks that people wear as a protection against COVID. However, a few telltale signs of the damage sustained as a result of the unrest that began a year ago remain visible, like scars that have healed but left marks that have yet to disappear. Its been a year of coping with enormous challenges. The broken pavements, damaged traffic lights and boardedup shop fronts that we now see in the city remind us of the need to create a lasting solution to prevent this from happening again. basuchinadailyhk.com In Sai Wan Ho, a girl walks past a cleanedup Lennon wall  one among many used by protesters to stick messages. Photos by Calvin Ng  China Daily ? A device installed at a traffic signal in Mong Kok to help the visually impaired cross the road was vandalized by radicals. ? A bank entrance in Tsim Sha Tsui remains boarded up to prevent possible attacks by rioters. ? Part of the lobby of New Town Plaza, Sha Tin, a favorite protest spot, has been barricaded off. ? A display board with a map of Mong Kok remains defaced by radical protesters. ? The Hong Kong Polytechnic University, which became a fiery battleground in November, remains offlimits to visitors except by appointment. ?