British cultural organization joins  China Weeks to promote mutual exchange
2020/6/9 6:40
The total value of this years BrandZ Top  Most Valuable Global Retail Brands has reached . trillion, with Amazon growing its value by  percent to . billion to remain the worlds most valuable retail brand, according to a recent report by WPP and Kantar. The list covers luxury, apparel, retail and fastfood brands around the world. Alibaba second, JD.com th, Pinduoduo th and Suning.com th are the four Chinese companies on the list. Here are the top  most valuable global retail brands for . No  Herms Brand value . billion Residents, wearing protective face masks, walk past a Herms store in Paris on April , .  No  Chanel Brand value . billion The Chanel logo is seen at the companys store in Monte Carlo, Monaco on Dec , .  No  Walmart Brand value . billion A Walmart sign is pictured at one of their stores in Mexico City on March , .  No  Starbucks Brand value . billion A man wearing a protective face mask is seen outside a Starbucks Coffee shop in Manchester, UK on May , , following the outbreak of the coronavirus.  No  Nike Brand value . billion Workers install a Nike logo lamp outside the Wukesong Arena in Beijing on Aug , .  No  Louis Vuitton Brand value . billion People queue on reopening day in front of a store shop of the French luxury fashion brand Louis Vuitton as Switzerland eases lockdown measures during the coronavirus outbreak, in Zurich, Switzerland on May , .  No  The Home Depot Brand value . billion Shoppers browse in a Home Depot building supply store while wearing masks to help slow the spread of coronavirus in north St Louis, Missouri, US, on April , .  No  McDonalds Brand value . billion Delivery couriers practice social distancing while waiting for orders at a McDonalds for take away following the implementation of stricter social distancing and selfisolation rules to limit the spread of the coronavirus in Sydney, Australia on April , .  No  Alibaba Group Brand value . billion A logo of Alibaba Group is seen at the companys headquarters in Hangzhou, Zhejiang province on Nov , .  No  Amazon Brand value . billion An Amazon worker delivers packages in Denver, Colorado, US, on April , . 