How Double Eleven  years ago benefits the world
2021/11/11 16:49
Zhao GuopinChina Daily  People who witnessed Chinas accession to the World Trade Organization WTO  years ago would have never expected the Double Eleven today would be a totally different sight in this country.  Over the past two decades, Chinas continuous efforts in widening openingup have injected new vitality into the countrys development and world economy.  WTO accession has proved to be one of the most important economic events in the history of China and the modern world, which has created a winwin outcome for China and the world, said Yi Xiaozhun, WTOs former deputy directorgeneral. SHANGHAI  People who witnessed Chinas accession to the World Trade Organization WTO  years ago would have never expected the Double Eleven today would be a totally different sight in this country. On Nov , , Shi Guangsheng, then Chinese Minister of Foreign Trade and Economic Cooperation, signed the protocol on Chinas accession to the WTO in Doha, and a month later, China formally became a WTO member  a landmark event in the countrys openingup and development and the worlds multilateral trading system. Twenty years later, Chinese netizens are gearing up for another Double Eleven, the annual consumption spree which started in . In the preorder session that started two weeks ago, washing machines and dryers, household appliances, and a wide range of cosmetics belonging to various foreign brands are among the popular choices. File photo shows Shi Guangsheng L, front, then Chinese Minister of Foreign Trade and Economic Cooperation, celebrating with others after signing the protocol of Chinas accession to the World Trade Organization WTO on behalf of the Chinese government in Doha, Qatar, Nov , . China became a formal WTO member on Dec , .  Economists believe that the two Double Eleven are closely linked and are the result of Chinas reform and openingup policy that brings massive benefits to both the country and the world. Transformation after WTO accession In , the USbased M founded its China branch in Shanghai as the first wholly foreignowned enterprise established outside the four special economic zones since Chinas reform and opening up. In , the company officially launched its first particulate respirators tailored for Chinese customers and manufactured in the country. Now M is one of the key multinational enterprises to have participated in the China International Import Expo CIIE in Shanghai for four consecutive years. With products ranging from masks, noisereducing earplugs to water purifiers and acne pimple patches, the brand has won growing popularity among Chinese consumers. It is also ready for the Double Eleven shopping extravaganza. People visit the M booth during the second China International Import Expo CIIE in Shanghai, on Nov , .  Over the past two decades, Chinas continuous efforts in widening openingup have injected new vitality into the countrys development and world economy. During the period, Chinas economic size has grown from the th to the nd largest in the world, trade in goods from the th to the st, and trade in services from the th to the nd. China has led developing countries in utilized foreign investment, and its outbound direct investment has risen from the th to the st. China has contributed an annual average of nearly  percent to the growth of the worlds economy. The huge changes can be more clearly seen in a group of comparison figures  years ago, China imported and exported . billion yuan . billion of goods a day, and now it only takes about three hours Chinese people spent  million yuan an hour then, and now it takes about six minutes. China has fully delivered on its accession commitments. Its overall tariff rate has been cut from . percent to . percent, lower than the . percent accession commitment. The central government has reviewed and revised over , laws and regulations, and local governments over ,, which all helped unleash market and social vitality. WTO accession has proved to be one of the most important economic events in the history of China and the modern world, which has created a winwin outcome for China and the world, said Yi Xiaozhun, WTOs former deputy directorgeneral. People buy products while visiting the CIIE Fair on the Nanjing Road pedestrian walkway in Shanghai, Nov , .  As Chinese consumers keep filling their shopping carts, the countrys shopping list from the rest of the world is also getting longer with more variety. The annual Double Eleven festival, which falls on Thursday, was first started by Alibabas ecommerce platform on Nov , , and quickly grew into a major shopping event. On Alibabas Tmall platform, the Double Eleven festival sees a record , brands participating and discounts for more than  million types of commodities. New opportunities from highstandard openingup As China marks the th anniversary of its accession to the WTO this year, the country is pushing highstandard openingup, which will further benefit its over . billion people and the world. In his keynote speech at the opening ceremony of the fourth CIIE on Nov , Chinese President Xi Jinping stressed that China will firmly safeguard true multilateralism. It will also firmly share market opportunities with the rest of the world, promote highstandard openingup, and uphold the common interest of the world. People visit the th China International Import Expo CIIE in East Chinas Shanghai, Nov , .  Among the new openingup moves, China will lay more emphasis on expanding import, open more demonstration zones for creative promotion of import trade, and optimize the catalogue of retail imports via crossborder ecommerce. The country will also further shorten the negative list for foreign investment, and expand the opening of telecommunication, healthcare and other services in an orderly fashion. Through the establishment of free trade zones and the Hainan free trade port, the relaxation of restrictions on foreign investment, the hosting of the CIIE and the China International Consumer Products Expo, as well as the domestic ratification of the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership, China has accelerated its overall openingup, bringing real and remarkable benefits to people and enterprises both at home and abroad. In the first three quarters of , Chinas imports totaled nearly  trillion, up . percent yearonyear and a record high. According to the latest WTO data, in the first half of the year, Chinas international market share of imports increased by . percentage points yearonyear to  percent, contributing  percent of the global import increment. Abikunda Samuel, the commercial counselor at the Embassy of Rwanda in China, said that previous participation in the CIIE has helped Chinese consumers learn more about Rwandas famous products, such as chili oil and coffee. Some Rwandan brands have caught up with Chinas ecommerce trend in collaboration with wellknown livestreaming hosts. Once, we sold some , packs of coffee within one second, and we hadnt even prepared that much stock, he recalled. That was a huge surprise. Longterm business ties established between China and Rwanda through the CIIE have created many job opportunities for Rwandan farmers, and thus benefited the countrys economy as a whole, said Samuel. Staff members are busy sorting packages at a dispatch center of Yuantong Express Company in Jiangbei district, Ningbo of East Chinas Zhejiang province, Nov , .  China announced at the first CIIE in  that its imported goods and services were estimated to exceed  trillion and  trillion, respectively, in the next  years. As the fourth CIIE concluded Wednesday with . billion worth of tentative deals reached, many of the participating companies will join the Double Eleven festival. The CIIE is a bridge that connects China with the rest of the world, and thats exactly what Cargill has been doing for the past  years, said Jerry Liu, president of Cargill in China. Inspired by the exciting new opportunities that the CIIE has unlocked for us, we will embrace the next  years with even greater hope and ambition as we continue to grow together with our partners and customers in China, Liu said.