Team building
2020/6/9 5:23
File photo the General Debate of the th session of the UNGA in .  UNITED NATIONS  President of the th session of the United Nations General Assembly UNGA Tijjani MuhammadBande said Monday that some  diplomats are likely to attend the UN General Debate this September due to the uncertainties caused by the COVID pandemic. We want to have the General Debate as scheduled...but the number of people that can be allowed into the hall General Assembly Hall maybe a hundred or so, but not a whole lot of people coming to the General Assembly, MuhammadBande said at a press briefing. The UNGA president said that the United Nations is currently discussing the mechanics of the General Debate, which is scheduled for Sep  to , and expects to decide on how the highlevel event will be held in the next two weeks. But MuhammadBande stressed that in terms of the broad direction, we are not going to have heads of state and government come to New York due to a lot of uncertainties including the number of hotels in New York and medical services, as world leaders do not travel as simple individuals. The United Nations is considering to shift to video messages by the heads of state and government for the highlevel session, as opposed to inperson presentations. New York City began the first phase of reopening on Monday, the United Nations is also gearing up for its return to normalcy in three phases. The UN headquarters, which has remained largely closed since midMarch due to the pandemic, is considering to reopen with new workplace measures being put in place for staff, diplomats and journalists that will include maximum twoperson occupancy in elevators and wearing masks in public areas. The th session of the UNGA will open on Sep . The first day of the highlevel General Debate will be Sep . A total of  heads of state and government spoke at the General Debate of the th session of the UNGA last year. This year coincides with the th anniversary of the founding of the world body, which is also considering ways of celebration.