New Zealand says coronavirus eliminated, to lift most curbs
2020/6/8 9:41
Editors note This news column showcases stories from around the world that bring a touch of positivity to the fight against the deadly coronavirus With campus closures and reentry bans, the coronavirus pandemic has created unease and uncertainty for foreign students in Japan, leaving many, including Wu Jing, in limbo. ? A medical worker tries to put off a protective face mask at the Intensive Care Unit ICU ward for coronavirus disease COVID patients at St. Marianna Medical University Hospital in Kawasaki, south of Tokyo, Japan May , .? At first the dominant fear was of a lack of gear such as face masks, and then the chief anxiety was about things like when classes resume and how you could keep up with your studies, said Wu, a PhD candidate at the Graduate School of Frontier Sciences at Tokyo University. During the pandemic, as Japanese students who returned to their homes griped about having to give up their social lives and vital oncampus networking opportunities, many foreign students watched their finances fall apartthe lockdown of businesses preventing them from working. Although some of these overseas students come from families wealthy enough to look after them, many others have worried about how they are going to pay tuition fees. Those who were able to afford to fly home before international borders were closed say they are unsure when they will be able to return. While some stayed at home feeling helpless, others stepped up to offer help, Wu, being one of the latter. Starting from February, Wu and other students at Tokyo University set up a website offering help to students needing it, under the banner of a nonprofit organization called the Chinese Association of Science and Technology in Japan. Its at times like these that I think we students should unite to help each other and others as much as we can, Wu said. With the support of donations from China and Japan, Wus group has helped supply about , Chinese students in Japan with face masks, disinfectant and other necessities. Because our association was built by Chinese alumni of Tokyo University and most of our donations came from them, we first focused on helping Chinese students at Tokyo University, then expanded our reach to Chinese students in other universities, and now we want to help Japanese society more broadly, Wu said. Timely aid Ma Shengchi, a student at Tokyo University who received face masks from Wus group in March, said the help was very timely. I had some face masks prepared before, but in March I was running out and was in a panic because I couldnt find any masks in the shops. I saw the website and was very surprised to receive masks so quickly. With the support of Wus group and donations later from the Chinese embassy in Tokyo, Ma said, he was spared the worry of having to wait for a resumption of mask supplies. As a Chinese I feel safe and proud of my country and my compatriots.