US jobless rate falls to . percent
2020/6/8 9:41
An Iranian young man wears a protective face mask, following the outbreak of the coronavirus disease COVID, as he uses his smartphone in Tehran, Iran, May , .? CAIRO  As the COVID continues to spread in the Middle East, Iran and Turkey have both seen their confirmed cases surpassing ,, while Saudi Arabias total cases exceeded , on Sunday. Irans confirmed coronavirus cases rose to , on Sunday after an overnight registration of , new infections, official IRNA news agency reported. The pandemic has so far claimed the lives of , Iranians, up by  in the past  hours. Besides, , have recovered and been discharged from hospitals while , remain in critical condition. Irans health officials have urged the people to wear face masks in public places, particularly in the public transport vehicles as the country has started to restart businesses and social activities. Turkeys COVID cases increased by  to a total of , on Sunday, Turkish Health Minister Fahrettin Koca said. Meanwhile,  people died in the past  hours, taking the death toll to ,, the minister tweeted. A total of , patients recovered, raising the total recoveries to , in Turkey, Koca said, noting that  patients are being treated at the intensive care units and  are intubated. Turkish people enjoyed a curfewfree weekend as the country on Friday announced to cancel an initially planned weekend lockdown. Lockdowns had been imposed for weekends and national holidays in the country since midApril. As people rushed to streets and parks at the weekend, Koca urged the citizens to stick to social distancing. Lets not overdo the normalization, he tweeted. Saudi Arabia registered , new COVID cases on Sunday, bringing the total cases to ,, the health ministry tweeted. Its death toll reached  after the reporting of  new fatalities. The recoveries increased to , with , newly recovered cases. Egypt on Sunday registered , new COVID cases, raising the total number of infections to ,, said the health ministry. Death toll from the disease in the country rose to , after  fatalities were added. A total of , recoveries have been registered in Egypt. The Israeli Ministry of Health reported that the number of coronavirus patients increased to , in the country on Sunday, after  new patients were detected. According to the ministry, the number of death cases increased from  to . The number of recoveries increased to ,, with  new recoveries. Iraqs Health Ministry on Sunday said that the total number of COVID cases in the country climbed to , after setting a new record of daily increase with , infections. The ministry said in a statement that  people died from the coronavirus during the day, bringing the death toll in the country to , while , patients have recovered. Qatars health ministry on Sunday announced , new infections of COVID, increasing the total number of confirmed cases in the Gulf state to ,. Some , people recovered, bringing the total number of recoveries to ,, while three others died, raising the fatalities up to , the ministry said in a statement. The United Arab Emirates on Sunday announced  new COVID cases, bringing the total confirmed cases in the country to ,. The ministry also confirmed one more death, pushing the countrys death toll to . Kuwait on Sunday reported  new cases of COVID and  more deaths, raising the tally of infections to , and the death toll to , the Health Ministry said in a statement. The Omani Ministry of Health announced on Sunday  new confirmed cases of COVID, bringing the total number of cases in the country to ,. The ministry also said that three new deaths were reported, bringing the death toll to . Morocco on Sunday announced  new COVID cases, bringing the total number in the North African country to ,. The countrys COVID death toll stood at . Lebanons number of COVID infections increased on Sunday by  cases to , while the death toll rose by one to .