Trials for drug as virus treatment resume after study retracted
2020/6/8 6:56
An official selects a journalist to ask a question at the news conference to release the white paper Fighting COVID China in Action in Beijing on Sunday.  HONG FOR CHINA DAILY China suspends debt repayments for  developing countries, regions, senior official says China will fulfill its commitment to assist developing countries in the fight against COVID and work with the international community to resume personnel exchanges to mitigate its negative impact on social and economic development, a senior official said on Sunday. ViceForeign Minister Ma Zhaoxu said at a news conference in Beijing that China has announced the suspension of debt repayments for  developing countries and regions with the implementation of the Gs Debt Service Suspension Initiative for the worlds poorest countries. The establishment of a cooperation mechanism for Chinese hospitals to pair up with  African hospitals is also underway, Ma said, adding that the construction of a United Nations humanitarian hub in China is under discussion and preparation. In a speech at a virtual event opening the rd session of the World Health Assembly last month, President Xi Jinping announced China will provide  billion over two years to help with COVID response and with economic and social development in affected countries. Ma explained that through bilateral aid and multilateral donations, the funds will be used to provide antiepidemic materials as well as support the resumption of economic and social development in related countries in the postepidemic era. At the news conference, the State Council Information Office unveiled a white paper titled Fighting COVID China in Action, which records Chinas efforts in its fight against the virus, shares its experience with the rest of the world and clarifies its outlook on the global battle. According to the white paper, China had provided antiepidemic assistance to more than  countries and four international organizations and had sent  medical experts groups to  countries as of May . Local governments, enterprises, civil organizations and individuals have donated medical supplies to more than  countries and regions as well as international organizations, it said. From March  to May , China exported antiepidemic materials to  countries and regions, including . billion face masks and  million items of protective clothing as well as other supplies, it added. According to Ma, China has held over  videoconferences with experts from more than  countries and international organizations. All these facts demonstrated Chinas sense of responsibility as a major country, Ma said, adding that China has advanced its cooperation with other countries and boosted its relations with most of them during the pandemic. He noted that China is strengthening cooperation with various countries to restart personnel exchanges in a gradual and orderly manner, to promote resumption of work and production and to maintain the stability of international industrial and supply chains. China has established fasttrack lane services for personnel exchanges with the Republic of Korea, Germany and Singapore, he said. While ensuring the containment of the pandemic, China will discuss with other countries the establishment of fast lanes for people to come to China who are engaged in important business, logistics, production and technical services, he added. In terms of stigmatization of China, Ma said that while certain countries defame China as well as create and spread a political virus with every conceivable means to shed their own responsibilities, China must firmly fight back against the shifting of blame. Xu Lin, viceminister of the Publicity Department of the Communist Party of China Central Committee and minister of the State Council Information Office, also rejected accusations that the Chinese media made false reports on COVID in disregard of the facts. Chinas media has no intention of fighting the socalled information war but will discern right from wrong and restore the truth in the face of rumors and slander against China, he said. Some foreign politicians and media have claimed China is the source of the virus and tried to politicize the COVID pandemic. They played up the presumptions that China was accountable for spreading the virus and concealing the facts, which have no factual basis and disrespect science, Xu said. Faced with such slander against China, the Chinese media must and will respond, not by playing around with words, but by clarifying the facts, restoring the truth and maintaining morality and ethics, he added. Zhang Yangfei contributed to this story. ?