New unity needed amid challenges of new global age
2020/6/8 0:00
Editors note Chinas State Council Information Office on Sunday issued a white paper titled Fighting COVID China in Action. Full text below Contents Foreword I. Chinas Fight against the Epidemic A Test of Fire Stage I Swift Response to the Public Health Emergency December , January ,  Stage II Initial Progress in Containing the Virus January February ,  Stage III Newly Confirmed Domestic Cases on the Chinese Mainland Drop to Single Digits February March ,  Stage IV Wuhan and HubeiAn Initial Victory in a Critical Battle March April ,  Stage V Ongoing Prevention and Control Since April ,  II. WellCoordinated Prevention, Control and Treatment . Centralized and Efficient Command . A Tight Prevention and Control System Involving All Sectors of Society . An AllOut Effort to Treat Patients and Save Lives . China Has Released Information in an Open and Transparent Manner as Required by Law . Science and Technology Underpin Chinas Efforts III. Assembling a Powerful Force to Beat the Virus . Lives Are Precious . Mobilizing the Whole Country to Fight the Epidemic . Coordinating Prevention and Control with Social and Economic Development . Uniting as OneChinas Billion People IV. Building a Global Community of Health for All . China Appreciates Support from the International Community . China Conducts Active International Exchanges and Cooperation . International Solidarity and Cooperation in Fighting the Pandemic Afterword Foreword The Covid global pandemic is the most extensive to afflict humanity in a century. A serious crisis for the entire world, and a daunting challenge, it poses a grave threat to human life and health. This is a war that humanity has to fight and win. Facing this unknown, unexpected, and devastating disease, China launched a resolute battle to prevent and control its spread. Making peoples lives and health its first priority, China adopted extensive, stringent, and thorough containment measures, and has for now succeeded in cutting all channels for the transmission of the virus. . billion Chinese people have exhibited enormous tenacity and solidarity in erecting a defensive rampart that demonstrates their power in the face of such natural disasters. Having forged the idea that the world is a global community of shared future, and believing that it must act as a responsible member, China has fought shoulder to shoulder with the rest of the world. In an open, transparent, and responsible manner and in accordance with the law, China gave timely notification to the international community of the onset of a new coronavirus, and shared without reserve its experience in containing the spread of the virus and treating the infected. China has great empathy with victims all over the world, and has done all it can to provide humanitarian aid in support of the international communitys endeavors to stem the pandemic. The virus is currently wreaking havoc throughout the world. China grieves for those who have been killed and those who have sacrificed their lives in the fight, extends the greatest respect to those who are struggling to save lives, and offers true moral support to those who are infected and receiving treatment. China firmly believes that as long as all countries unite and cooperate to mount a collective response, the international community will succeed in overcoming the pandemic, and will emerge from this dark moment in human history into a brighter future. To keep a record of Chinas efforts in its own fight against the virus, to share its experience with the rest of the world, and to clarify its ideas on the global battle, the Chinese government now releases this white paper. I. Chinas Fight against the Epidemic A Test of Fire The Covid epidemic is a major public health emergency. The virus has spread faster and wider than any other since the founding of the Peoples Republic in , and has proven to be the most difficult to contain. It is both a crisis and a major test for China. The Communist Party of China CPC and the Chinese government have addressed the epidemic as a top priority, and taken swift action. General Secretary Xi Jinping has taken personal command, planned the response, overseen the general situation and acted decisively, pointing the way forward in the fight against the epidemic. This has bolstered the Chinese peoples confidence and rallied their strength. Under the leadership of the CPC, the whole nation has followed the general principle of remaining confident, coming together in solidarity, adopting a sciencebased approach, and taking targeted measures, and waged an allout peoples war on the virus. Through painstaking efforts and tremendous sacrifice, and having paid a heavy price, China has succeeded in turning the situation around. In little more than a single month, the rising spread of the virus was contained in around two months, the daily increase in domestic coronavirus cases had fallen to single digits and in approximately three months, a decisive victory was secured in the battle to defend Hubei Province and its capital city of Wuhan. With these strategic achievements, China has protected its peoples lives, safety and health, and made a significant contribution to safeguarding regional and global public health. As of  of May , , a cumulative total of , confirmed cases had been reported on the Chinese mainland, , infected had been cured and discharged from hospital, and , people had died. This demonstrates a cure rate of . percent and a fatality rate of . percent see charts , ,  and . Chinas fight against the epidemic can be divided into five stages. Stage I Swift Response to the Public Health Emergency December , January ,  As soon as cases of pneumonia of unknown cause were identified in Wuhan City, Hubei Province, China acted immediately to conduct etiological and epidemiological investigations and to stop the spread of the disease, and promptly reported the situation. In a timely manner, China informed the WHO and other countries, including the US, of the developing situation, and released the genome sequence of the novel coronavirus. After community spread and clusters of cases emerged in Wuhan, and confirmed cases were reported in other Chinese regions, which were due to virus carriers traveling from the city, a nationwide program of epidemic prevention and control was launched.  December ,  Hubei Provincial Hospital of Integrated Chinese and Western Medicine reported cases of pneumonia of unknown cause to the Wuhan Jianghan Center for Disease Prevention and Control. The Wuhan city government arranged for experts to look into these cases through an analysis of the patients condition and clinical outcome, the findings of epidemiological investigations, and preliminary laboratory testing results. The conclusion was that they were cases of a viral pneumonia.  December  The Wuhan City Health Commission WCHC issued Urgent Notice on Treatment of Patients with Pneumonia of Unknown Cause. Upon learning of developments, the National Health Commission NHC acted immediately to organize research into the disease.  December  The NHC made arrangements in the small hours to send a working group and an expert team to Wuhan to guide its response to the situation and conduct onsite investigations. The WCHC website carried its Information Circular on the Pneumonia Cases in Wuhan, confirming  cases and urging the public to stay away from enclosed public places with poor ventilation and venues where large crowds gathered. The commission also suggested the use of face masks when going out. From that day on, the WCHC began to release updates on the disease in accordance with the law.  January ,  The NHC set up a leading group on the disease response. The next day, it formulated Guidelines on Early Detection, Early Diagnosis and Early Quarantine for Prevention and Control of Viral Pneumonia of Unknown Cause. The Chinese Center for Disease Control and Prevention China CDC and the Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences CAMS received the first batch of samples of four cases discovered in Hubei and began the pathogen identification process.  January  The WCHC issued Information Circular on Viral Pneumonia of Unknown Cause, reporting a total of  cases. Under the direction of the NHC, China CDC and three other institutions carried out parallel laboratory testing of the samples to identify the pathogen. The NHC and the Health Commission of Hubei Province jointly formulated nine documents, including Diagnosis and Treatment Protocol for Viral Pneumonia of Unknown Cause for Trial Implementation. From that day on, on a regular basis, China began to update the WHO, relevant countries, and regional organizations, as well as its own regions of Hong Kong, Macao and Taiwan, on the development of the disease.  January  The head of China CDC held a telephone conversation with the director of the US CDC, briefing him about the new pneumonia. The two sides agreed to keep in close contact on information sharing and cooperation on technical matters. The NHC and related health departments in Hubei Province produced Treatment Manual for Viral Pneumonia of Unknown Cause.  January  The WCHC updated information on its website, reporting a total of  cases of the viral pneumonia of unknown cause. Laboratory tests ruled out respiratory pathogens as the cause, such as influenza, avian influenza, adenovirus, the Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome coronavirus, and the Middle East Respiratory Syndrome coronavirus. China sent a situation update to the WHO. The WHO released its first briefing on cases of pneumonia of unknown cause in Wuhan.  January  The NHC gave a briefing on cases of pneumonia of unknown cause in Wuhan at a national health conference, calling for greater efforts to monitor, analyze and study them, and prepare for a timely response.  January  Xi Jinping, general secretary of the CPC Central Committee, presided over a meeting of the Standing Committee of the Political Bureau of the CPC Central Committee and issued instructions on the prevention and control of a possible epidemic of the pneumonia of unknown cause in Wuhan.  January  China CDC succeeded in isolating the first novel coronavirus strain.  January  An expert evaluation team designated by the NHC initially identified a new coronavirus as the cause of the disease. The heads of the China and US CDCs held a telephone discussion on technical exchanges and cooperation.  January  The NHC expert evaluation team released information on the pathogen of the viral pneumonia of unknown cause, and made a preliminary judgment that a new coronavirus was the cause. China informed the WHO of developments and the initial progress that had been made in determining the cause of the viral pneumonia. The WHO released on its website a statement regarding a cluster of pneumonia cases in Wuhan, indicating that the preliminary identification of a novel coronavirus in such a short period of time was a notable achievement.  January  Research institutions including China CDC and the Wuhan Institute of Virology WIV under the Chinese Academy of Sciences CAS came up with an initial version of test kits. Wuhan immediately began to test all relevant cases admitted to local hospitals to screen for the new coronavirus. The heads of the NHC and China CDC held separate telephone conversations with the head of the WHO about Chinas response to the disease, and exchanged information.  January  China started to update the WHO and other parties concerned on a daily basis.  January  The WCHC changed viral pneumonia of unknown cause to pneumonia caused by the novel coronavirus in an information circular on its website. China CDC, the CAMS and the WIV, as designated agencies of the NHC, submitted to the WHO the genome sequence of the novel coronavirus nCoV, which was published by the Global Initiative on Sharing All Influenza Data to be shared globally.  January  Premier Li Keqiang chaired a State Council meeting and announced requirements for epidemic prevention and control.  January  The NHC held a meeting to provide guidance to Hubei and Wuhan authorities, advising them to further strengthen management, step up body temperature monitoring at ports and stations, and reduce crowded gatherings. The WHO issued on its website a statement on the discovery of novel coronavirus cases in Thailand, recognizing that Chinas sharing of the genome sequence of the virus had enabled more countries to rapidly diagnose cases. An inspection team from Hong Kong, Macao and Taiwan visited Wuhan to learn about the prevention and control of the disease.  January  The NHC held a national teleconference, specifying arrangements for epidemic prevention and control in Hubei and Wuhan, and for emergency preparations and response across the country. The NHC cautioned that there was great uncertainty about the new disease, and that more research was needed to understand its mode of transmission and the risk of humantohuman transmissibility. Further spread could not be ruled out.  January  The NHC unveiled the first versions of Diagnosis and Treatment Protocol for Novel Coronavirus Pneumonia, and Protocol on Prevention and Control of Novel Coronavirus Pneumonia.  January  As the optimization of the Polymerase Chain Reaction PCR diagnostic reagents was completed, Wuhan began to screen all patients treated in fever clinics or under medical observation in the  hospitals at or above the level of grade two in the city.  January  The NHC sent seven inspection teams to different provinciallevel health agencies to guide local epidemic prevention and control.  January  The NHC released the second version of Diagnosis and Treatment Protocol for Novel Coronavirus Pneumonia.  January  and  The NHC assembled a highlevel national team of senior medical and disease control experts and sent them to Wuhan to study the local response to the epidemic. In the middle of the night of January , after careful examination and deliberation, the team determined that the new coronavirus was spreading between humans. Stage II Initial Progress in Containing the Virus January February ,  The situation became most pressing with the rapid increase in newly confirmed cases in China. As a crucial step to stem the spread of the virus, the Chinese government took the decisive measure to close outbound traffic from Wuhan. This marked the beginning of an allout battle to protect Wuhan and Hubei from the epidemic. The CPC Central Committee set up a leading group for novel coronavirus prevention and control and sent the Central Steering Group to Hubei. A joint epidemic prevention and control mechanism and in due course a mechanism to facilitate resumption of work were set up under the State Council. Resources were mobilized nationwide to assist Hubei and Wuhan. Major public health emergency responses were activated across China. The most comprehensive, stringent and thorough epidemic prevention and control campaign was launched nationwide, and initial progress was made in curbing the spread of the virus see Chart .  January  President Xi Jinping, also general secretary of the CPC Central Committee and chairman of the Central Military Commission, gave important instructions on fighting the novel coronavirus. He emphasized that peoples lives and health must come first and resolute efforts should be taken to stem the spread of the virus. He called for prompt release of information on the epidemic and enhanced international cooperation.  January  During an executive meeting of the State Council, Premier Li Keqiang decided to take more steps for epidemic prevention and control. A decision was taken to classify the novel coronavirus pneumonia as a Class B infectious disease in compliance with the Law of the Peoples Republic of China on Prevention and Treatment of Infectious Diseases, but to apply to it the preventive and control measures for a Class A infectious disease.  January  The State Council convened a teleconference to plan for nationwide prevention and control of the disease.  January  The NHC held a press conference for the highlevel expert team, at which it was confirmed that the virus could transmit from human to human.  January  The NHC made a statement on implementing the above State Council decision and bringing the pneumonia under quarantinable infectious disease management in accordance with the Frontier Health and Quarantine Law of the Peoples Republic of China. The NHC also released Protocol on Prevention and Control of Novel Coronavirus Pneumonia Edition .  January  Xi Jinping ordered the immediate imposition of tight restrictions on the movement of people and channels of exit in Hubei and Wuhan.  January  The NHC issued Diagnosis and Treatment Protocol for Novel Coronavirus Pneumonia Trial Version . The State Council Information Office held its first press conference on the novel coronavirus. The NHC was notified by the United States about its first confirmed case. The  Novel Coronavirus Resource database was officially launched by the China National Center for Bioinformation, which released the novel coronavirus genome and provided information on variation analysis to the international community.  January  At around  a.m. Wuhan City Novel Coronavirus Prevention and Control Command Center issued the No.  public notice declaring temporary closure of the citys outbound routes at its airports and railway stations at  a.m. the same day. The Ministry of Transport issued an emergency circular suspending passenger traffic into Wuhan from other parts of the country by road or waterway. The NHC and five other government departments also issued Notice on Preventing the Transmission of Novel Coronavirus Pneumonia via Means of Transport. From January  to January , all provinces and equivalent administrative units on the Chinese mainland hereafter all provinces activated Level  public health emergency response.  January  Researchers of the WIV, Wuhan Jinyintan Hospital and the Hubei Provincial CDC discovered that the whole genome sequence of the nCoV shares . percent of the SARSCoV sequence. The Novel Coronavirus National Science and Technology Resource Service System, jointly set up by the National Microbiology Data Center and the National Pathogen Resource Collection Center, released the first electron microscope image of the virus and its strain information.  January  Dispatch of national medical teams to Hubei and Wuhan began. In the ensuing period, a total of  medical teams composed of , medical workers and  public health workers from across the country and the armed forces were dispatched.  January  Xi Jinping chaired a meeting of the Standing Committee of the Political Bureau of the CPC Central Committee. He called for resolute efforts to win the battle to contain the virus with confidence and solidarity, a sciencebased approach and targeted measures. He urged Hubei to make epidemic control its top priority and apply more rigorous measures to stem the spread of the virus within the province and beyond. All confirmed patients, he said, must be hospitalized without delay, and severe cases must be sent to designated hospitals with sufficient medical resources so that they could be treated by medical experts. A decision was taken at the meeting that the central Party leadership would set up a leading group for novel coronavirus prevention and control under the Standing Committee of the Political Bureau. It was also decided that the central Party leadership would send a steering group to Hubei to oversee epidemic control on the ground.  January  The NHC released six sets of guidelines on disease prevention for general use, tourism, households, public places, public transport and home observation.  January  Premier Li Keqiang, also a member of the Standing Committee of the Political Bureau of the CPC Central Committee and head of the Central Leading Group for Novel Coronavirus Prevention and Control, chaired the groups first meeting. The General Office of the State Council issued the decision to extend the Chinese New Year holiday of  and postpone the opening of all universities, colleges, secondary schools, elementary schools and kindergartens. The National Medical Products Administration fasttracked approval of four novel coronavirus test kits made by four companies to boost capacity for producing virus nucleic acid test kits.  January  Xi Jinping issued an instruction calling on all CPC organizations and members to bear in mind the supremacy of the peoples interests and the Partys founding mission, strengthen confidence and solidarity, take a sciencebased approach and targeted measures, and lead the people in implementing the decisions made by the central Party leadership.  January  Li Keqiang paid an inspection visit to Wuhan on behalf of Xi Jinping, where he gave guidance on virus control and expressed appreciation to frontline health workers. The Central Steering Group arrived in Wuhan on the same day to strengthen overall guidance of and supervision over the prevention and control of the disease at the front line.  January  The NHC released Diagnosis and Treatment Protocol for Novel Coronavirus Pneumonia Trial Version . The head of the NHC discussed epidemic prevention and control with the head of the US Department of Health and Human Services US HHS in a telephone call.  January  Xi Jinping met with WHO Director General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus in Beijing. He said, The virus is a devil, and we must hunt it down. The Chinese government has been providing timely updates on the epidemic in an open, transparent and responsible way. We have responded to the concerns of various parties and enhanced cooperation with the international community. He expressed Chinas readiness to work with the WHO and the international community to safeguard public health both in the region and globally.  January  The NHC released Protocol on Prevention and Control of Novel Coronavirus Pneumonia Edition .  January  The NHC notified the US through the official channel that American experts were welcome to join the WHOChina Joint Mission on Coronavirus Disease. The US replied and expressed its appreciation on the same day.  January  The WHO declared the novel coronavirus outbreak a public health emergency of international concern. The NHC released Guidelines on Treating Novel Coronavirus Patients with Severe Symptoms in Designated Hospitals.  February  Under the guidance of the Central Steering Group, Wuhan began to adopt measures to put four categories of peopleconfirmed cases, suspected cases, febrile patients who might be carriers, and close contactsunder classified management in designated facilities. The policy of ensuring that all those in need are tested, isolated, hospitalized or treated was implemented. Actions were taken to conduct mass screenings to identify people with infections, hospitalize them, and collect accurate data on case numbers.  February  The head of the NHC sent a letter to the head of the US HHS to further exchange views on bilateral cooperation on public health and epidemic prevention and control.  February  Xi Jinping chaired a meeting of the Standing Committee of the Political Bureau of the CPC Central Committee. He required that epidemic control measures be improved and strengthened and that the principle of early detection, reporting, quarantine and treatment be strictly observed. He called for saving lives by raising admission and cure rates and lowering infection and fatality rates.  February  The Central Steering Group sent to Wuhan  national emergency medical teams from all over China, and gave the order to construct temporary treatment centers.  February  The head of China CDC took a telephone call from the head of the US National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases in which they exchanged views on the novel coronavirus.  February  Xi Jinping chaired the third meeting of the Commission for Lawbased Governance under the CPC Central Committee. He stressed the importance of putting the peoples lives and health first, and the need to raise Chinas overall capacity of lawbased disease prevention and control through the joint efforts of the legislature, law enforcement agencies, the judiciary and the public. This would ensure that epidemic prevention and control is conducted in compliance with the law.  February  The State Council through its Joint Prevention and Control Mechanism strengthened coordination, which made it possible for the supply of medical N masks to exceed Hubeis requirement.  February  The NHC released Diagnosis and Treatment Protocol for Novel Coronavirus Pneumonia Trial Version .  February  Through its Joint Prevention and Control Mechanism, the State Council issued Notice on Delivery of Duties for Effective Prevention and Control of the Disease. The NHC released Protocol on Prevention and Control of Novel Coronavirus Pneumonia Edition .  February  The NHC gave briefings on Chinas epidemic control efforts and measures at a meeting of the APEC health working group. It also gave briefings to Chinese diplomatic missions overseas on the guidelines for prevention and control, diagnosis and treatment, monitoring, epidemiological investigation and laboratory testing of the novel coronavirus. Heads of Chinese and US health authorities further exchanged views on arrangements for American experts to join the WHOChina Joint Mission on Coronavirus Disease.  February  Xi Jinping inspected prevention and control work in Beijing. He also talked by video link to doctors from Wuhan Jinyintan Hospital, Wuhan Union Hospital and Huoshenshan Hospital where novel coronavirus patients were being treated. He called for strengthening confidence and taking more decisive measures to stem the spread of and win the peoples allout war against the virus. He emphasized that top priority must be given to Hubei and Wuhan, as they were the decisive battlegrounds. Victory in Wuhan would ensure victory in Hubei, and ultimately victory across the country. No effort would be spared in saving lives. The infected should be treated in designated hospitals by toplevel doctors and with all necessary resources guaranteed. Strict measures must be taken to forestall inbound and intracity transmissions, neutralize all sources of infection and stem the spread of the virus to the greatest extent possible.  February  A mechanism was established to organize pairing assistance from other provinces to Hubeis cities other than Wuhan for treatment of the infected. Assistance from  provinces was rendered to  cities in Hubei.  February  Thanks to strengthened coordination under the State Council Joint Prevention and Control Mechanism, the supply of medical protective suits to Hubei exceeded its needs.  February  China CDC experts had a teleconference at the request of flu experts from the US CDC, during which they shared information on novel coronavirus prevention and control.  February  At a meeting of the Standing Committee of the Political Bureau of the CPC Central Committee, Xi Jinping noted that Chinas novel coronavirus prevention and control had reached the most crucial stage. Key epidemic control tasks must be fulfilled, and greater attention must be given to the hardesthit and highrisk areas. He called for improvements in key links in disease control to raise the admission and cure rates and lower the infection and fatality rates. Hospital capacity must be boosted to ensure admission and treatment for all patients. The best medical resources and technologies should be pooled to treat all infections, particularly the most severe cases. He urged those provinces and cities with large population inflows to strengthen crossregion joint prevention and control and societywide efforts to contain the virus.  February  The head of the NHC received a letter from the head of the US HHS on arrangements concerning bilateral cooperation on public health and novel coronavirus prevention and control.  February  Xi Jinping chaired the th meeting of the Commission for Further Reform under the CPC Central Committee. He emphasized that protecting peoples lives and health is a high priority on the CPCs governance agenda. Immediate, sciencebased and targeted measures must be taken to stamp out the virus. Experience and lessons must be drawn to enhance preparedness in the future. Swift actions must be taken to address problems, plug loopholes, and reinforce weak links. He also emphasized the need to improve both the mechanism for preventing and controlling major epidemics and the national public health emergency response system.  February  All provinces and equivalent administrative units other than Hubei saw a continuous drop in newly confirmed cases for the th consecutive day.  February  The State Council Information Office held its first press conference on novel coronavirus prevention and control in Wuhan. By that day, seven types of test reagents had been approved for market launch, and progress had been made in drug screening, development of therapeutic regimens and vaccines, and animal model construction.  February  The WHOChina Joint Mission on Covid, consisting of  experts from China, Germany, Japan, ROK, Nigeria, Russia, Singapore, the US and the WHO, started its nineday field visit to Beijing, Chengdu, Guangzhou, Shenzhen and Wuhan.  February  Through its Joint Prevention and Control Mechanism, the State Council issued Guidelines on Taking Sciencebased, Targeted, Regionspecific, and Tiered Measures for Covid Prevention and Control. Local authorities and government departments were required to take measures matching the corresponding levels of emergency response and ensure an orderly return to work and normal life.  February  Nationwide, the daily number of newly cured and discharged coronavirus patients exceeded that of newly confirmed cases, and the number of confirmed cases began to drop. The NHC sent a reply to the US HHS on further arrangements concerning bilateral health and antivirus cooperation.  February  Xi Jinping chaired a meeting of the Standing Committee of the Political Bureau of the CPC Central Committee. The meeting heard reports on coronavirus prevention and control, and studied plans on strengthening virus control while promoting economic and social development.  February  The NHC released Diagnosis and Treatment Protocol for Covid Trial Version .  February  For the first time in Wuhan, newly cured and discharged cases outnumbered newly confirmed ones. Stage III Newly Confirmed Domestic Cases on the Chinese Mainland Drop to Single Digits February March ,  China had made significant progress The rapid spread of the virus had been contained in Wuhan and the rest of Hubei Province, the situation in other parts on the mainland had stabilized, and the daily figure for new cases had remained in single digits since midMarch. As the situation evolved, the CPC Central Committee decided to coordinate epidemic control with economic and social development, and organize an orderly return to normal work and daily life see Chart .  February  Xi Jinping chaired a meeting of the Political Bureau of the CPC Central Committee. He pointed out that while significant progress had been made in containing the epidemic, the turning point had not yet arrived at the national level. Wuhan and the entire province of Hubei still faced a grave and complex threat. He instructed that differentiated control measures be adopted to address the problems in different regions, to defend Hubei and its capital city, to step up support to regions with insufficient capacity, and to make an allout effort to ensure the safety of Beijing, the national capital. He required that economic and social order be managed in parallel with the antiepidemic endeavor, and called for an orderly return to normal work and daily life.  February  Through its Joint Prevention and Control Mechanism, the State Co