White paper restorative tonic for those whose community spirit has waned China Daily editorial
2020/6/7 19:18
A press conference is held on the publication of a white paper on Chinas fight against COVID by the State Council Information Office in Beijing on June , . Photo by Zou Hongchinadaily.com.cn Listing the key developments from Dec  last year, when the first patient with pneumonia of an unknown cause was reported by a hospital in Wuhan, capital of Hubei province, to May , when . percent of the , people on the Chinese mainland infected by the novel coronavirus had been treated and recovered, the white paper on Chinas battle against the COVID issued by the State Council Information Office on Sunday is a sort of national diary recording the tremendous peoples war the country waged against the virus. Reading it will make most of those who waged war against the coronavirus on the front line  whether they be community workers, doctors, journalists or others  choke up with emotions, as it provides many details that might otherwise have been left to gather dust and forgotten over time. Now with them chronicled in the white paper, they will be carved into the nations collective memory. Although the white paper studiously avoids calling the nations achievement in containing the contagion a victory, China was one of the first countries to bring its domestic situation under control, having been the first country to be hardhit by the novel coronavirus outbreak. Although the epidemic has changed the lives of many, the nation passed the unexpected test. And having conducted an allout war against the virus on different fronts  treating the infected and preventing new infections exhausting all means to save lives and expediting research on therapies  and effectively containing the contagion at home, China has done what it can to assist other countries fighting their battles with the virus and promoted international solidarity. While showing how united the nation can be, this global threat has also showed how important it is for the world to unite. Countries must appreciate that such menaces are a common enemy and there is no escaping the reality that we are all members of a community with a shared future in the face of them. Thats why China has wasted no time in disclosing its findings on the virus and its therapy, dispatching  expert medical teams to  countries, and donating essential medical supplies to  countries and four international organizations, even when it was in the toughest stage of its own struggle with this devil. And that sense of responsibility has been displayed by the whole of Chinese society, with people from all walks of life extending a helping hand to others. Which is why workers have been keeping factories running around the clock to provide necessary medical equipment to the world  China exported to  countries . billion masks,  million protective suits,  million pairs of goggles, , ventilators, enough test kits to  million persons, and . million infrared thermometers from March to May. It is to be hoped the white paper will instill confidence that the world can secure a final victory against the virus, and prompt those trying to exploit the pandemic for their narrow ends to regain their senses.