National health body denies delaying, hiding coronavirus data
2020/6/7 7:41
New York Governor Andrew Cuomo is joined by Rosie Perez and Chris Rock at a press conference where the two performers helped to promote coronavirus testing, social distancing and the use of a face mask on May ,  in New York.  NEW YORK  The US state of New York is reopening faster than expected due to the progress in various metrics in combating COVID. The death toll from the coronavirus in the state dropped to a new low since the beginning of the pandemic at  on Friday, Governor Andrew Cuomo said on Saturday at his daily briefing. This is really, really good news. Compared to where we were, this is a big sigh of relief, he said. Meanwhile, the number of total hospitalizations in the state was down on Friday to , from a recordhigh of , during the peak of the pandemic. The reopening of the economy is a valve  we said we were going to open the valve incrementally and then watch the metrics, and our metrics today are all very good so were going to open the valve more than we originally anticipated, said Cuomo. The governor announced that the states places of worship will be permitted to reopen with  percent occupancy during phase two of reopening, and visitors must follow social distancing protocols. Places of worship in the states seven regions that are already in phase two will open on Sunday, he said. As offices have started to reopen in phase two, the governor said he would issue an executive order allowing commercial buildings statewide to conduct temperature checks for people entering the building. Were giving commercial buildings the right to take the temperature of everyone who walks into a building. Its not just your health, its the people you could infect, he said. Cuomo noted that people still have to stay smart and follow all precautions and guidelines, because if the metrics start to change, the reopening will have to be slowed down. The state has reported , COVID cases and , deaths. New York City, which is scheduled to enter phase one of reopening on Monday, has reported , cases, according to a tally kept by Johns Hopkins University. New York City saw its first day without any confirmed deaths from COVID on Wednesday, according to the citys Department of Health and Mental Hygiene, marking a hopeful point in the recovery of the countrys epicenter of the pandemic. New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio said earlier this week that more than , construction sites will reopen during the first phase, and up to , nonessential workers in construction, manufacturing and retail for curbside pickup will be back to work. The city has also announced universal COVID testing for all residents with over  testing sites citywide. Over , contact tracers have been deployed across five boroughs, with particular emphasis on those hardesthit communities. The mayor unveiled on Friday a mobile testing program that could bring testing to peoples front doors, starting on Monday with two testing trucks in two neighborhoods in Queens and the Bronx, and ramping up to  trucks in the next few weeks. As the governor has appealed several times, de Blasio also urged anyone who has participated in the citys protests over the death of George Floyd, an African American man, to get a test. I want to keep reminding people. It is dangerous to be close together and people must keep social distance, and we got to get back to that clear understanding, he said on Friday. Over , New Yorkers have been in various protests during the past two weeks, with many wearing face coverings but social distancing largely ignored. As the citys public transit system is to face a surge of ridership in reopening, the New York Metropolitan Transportation Authority MTA is ready to return to normal service and has installed notouch payment scanners in half of all subway stations to prevent contact, according to a plan released by the MTA on Friday. Governor Cuomo also said on Saturday that the state is deploying over  million masks and , bottles of sanitizer to the MTA for its safe recovery. However, the overnight service will not resume at this moment as the disinfection work of train cars each night from  am to  am will continue.