Chinese media will not engage in information war, but will respond to slander, govt says
2020/6/6 19:12
A student is on the way to the dormitory in Tsinghua University in Beijing, capital of China, June , . Graduating students of universities in Beijing are allowed to return to campuses gradually from Saturday, according to local authorities.  BEIJING  Graduating students of universities in Beijing are allowed to return to campuses gradually from Saturday, according to local authorities. More than  universities including Peking University, the Beijing Institute of Technology BIT and Beijing University of Chemical Technology BUCT are expected to welcome back over , graduating students on Saturday. This move follows the reopening of primary and middle schools on June , as the COVID epidemic continues to wane in the Chinese capital. Beijing announced Friday that it would lower its emergency response to the novel coronavirus epidemic from the second level to the third level starting from Saturday. A student st, L goes through procedures to move to his dormitory at Tsinghua University in Beijing, capital of China, June , .  Peking University said around , final year students will return to campus on a voluntary basis in four batches this month. It said its staff has started to embark on backtocampus work for graduating students since May and established  special teams to engage in the work. Twelve teachers of Peking University even traveled to Central Chinas Hubei province, a hardhit province of the virus, and accompanied over  Hubei students back to Beijing on Saturday and took care of them during the journey. Students pose for a photo in front of a signature wall at Tsinghua University in Beijing, capital of China, June , .  More than , workers from BIT have made preparation for the returning students in recent days, including cleaning and disinfecting elevators, canteens, dormitories, classrooms and laboratories, and ventilating other public areas. BIT is expected to see more than  graduating students back at the university on Saturday. I will finally get back to my university and Im so excited. I missed my university so much, said Geng Baoqun, a PhD student at BIT, coming from North Chinas Shanxi province. The university has adopted very detailed and considerate epidemic preventionandcontrol measures. We also received an antiepidemic package from the university, which contains medical masks, disinfectants and food. I feel safe and reassured, Geng added. A student registers his health information before moving to his dormitory in Tsinghua University in Beijing, capital of China, June , .? Xu Haijun, director of the epidemic preventionandcontrol office of BUCT, said the university has conducted free nucleic acid tests for all students and taken antiepidemic measures to ensure students safety. Returning students of BUCT were seen at the gate on Saturday to show their health QR code, nucleic acid test reports and had their body temperatures taken, under the guidance of university staff. Face recognition facilities and temperature checking points have also been set up at the entrances of the student dormitories. Li Peijing, an official at the China Agricultural University CAU, introduced university plans to welcome back a total of , graduating students from June  to . Two other batches, including other postgraduate students and undergraduates, will return to the university in the following months. Our university canteens also adopt a meal reservation system, which requires students to book their meals in advance in a bid to avoid gathering. Meanwhile, diningtables have been marked so that students can keep a safe distance from each other, said Xiao Li, director of the dining center of CAU. Photo taken on June ,  shows a sign reminding students to register their health information before entering a canteen in Tsinghua University in Beijing, capital of China.? Li Yi, a spokesman of the Beijing Municipal Education Commission, said that it is far more complicated for colleges and universities to resume classes than primary or secondary schools and communities. This is because university students have to attend classes, do experiments and live and eat together. Therefore, universities need to strengthen epidemic preventionandcontrol measures and implement those measures to make sure students are healthy and safe, Li added. Nearly  colleges and universities in Beijing have carried out epidemic prevention drills in recent days under the supervision of municipal educational departments. Only those who meet the standards are allowed to have their students back and resume classes. Students who return to school get off a special bus at Tsinghua University in Beijing, capital of China, June , .?