Chartered rescue train heads for Paris
2020/6/5 20:26
A train loaded with anticoronavirus medical materials left for Paris on June ,  from Xiangtang International Port in Nanchang, Jiangxi province. Photo by Li Qianfor chinadaily.com.cn A train loaded with antiCOVID materials departed on Thursday from Xiangtang International Port in Nanchang, Jiangxi province, and its journey to Paris, France. It was the first charter train to be loaded with antiepidemic materials from China for delivery to Paris. The train will travel nearly , kilometers through seven countries and regions to arrive in the French city in about three weeks. The goods, worth  million euros . million and all made in Jiangxi province, include  million masks,  million pairs of gloves, . million solution bags and touchfree disinfectant machines. Officers in Ganjiang New District under Nanchang Customs had studied Frances standards and requirements for antiepidemic materials, conducted risk research and formulated onsite inspection plans to ensure the smooth operation of the train. It also opened a green channel to shorten transit procedures. A train loaded with anticoronavirus medical materials left for Paris on June ,  from Xiangtang International Port in Nanchang, Jiangxi province. Photo by Li Qianfor chinadaily.com.cn This shipment of antiepidemic materials was commissioned by the French Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which chose the train for its high efficiency. The quantity of antiepidemic materials transported by trains between China and Europe far exceeds the capacity of other modes of freight transport. The cost is also lower than that of air transport by a factor of , and time in transit is  days less than sea transport. All these advantages were fully recognized by the French side. The operation of the Nanchang ChinaEurope train is expected to link international industrial and supply chains, help enterprises resume manufacturing and contribute to the global fight against the coronavirus, courtesy of Jiangxi province. In addition, Nanchang has been running international freight trains to the Netherlands, Vietnam, Russia and Belarus. A staff member at the port directs the loading of a cargo container.?Photo by Li Qianfor chinadaily.com.cn Customs workers check the cargo before the train departs.?Photo by Li Qianfor chinadaily.com.cn Customs workers oversee the loading of?cargo before the train departs.?Photo by Li Qianfor chinadaily.com.cn