Italy confirms downward trend in new infections, facemasks ready for high school exams
2020/6/5 11:31
A child, part of a small group aged between  to  yearsold, gets his temperature taken before returning to school as part of a pilot test to see how social distancing can work in schools throughout the region of Piedmont, proposed by the mayor of Borgosesia Paolo Tiramani, during the coronavirus disease COVID outbreak, near Vercelli, Italy, May , .  ROME  Italys accumulated coronavirus cases reached , on Thursday, up by  compared to the previous day, confirming the downward trend in new infections, the countrys Civil Protection Department said. The number of new infections is lower than the  new cases recorded Wednesday. According to the latest daily data, active infections stood at ,, a decrease of  from a day earlier. Of those active infections,  are in intensive care, down by  compared to Wednesday, and , are hospitalized with symptoms, down by , the Civil Protection Department said. The remaining ,, or about  percent, are isolated at home because they are asymptomatic or have mild symptoms. The countrys death toll grew by  to , over the past  hours, the Civil Protection said in its bulletin. The same period saw  new recoveries, which brought to , the total number of people recovered since the pandemic broke out in the northern regions in late February. As the pandemic slowed down visibly in recent weeks, Italy further eased the lockdown. From Wednesday, people in Italy were allowed to move freely within the country. Travel restrictions were also eased the same day, so travelers from Schengen countries, NonSchengen EU member states, the United Kingdom, Andorra and Monaco can visit the country without subjecting to quarantine. PUPILS SAFETY ESSENTIAL Emergency officials said that the government is straining to ensure the best safety for pupils and teachers ahead of the high school final exams, due to take place starting from midJune. We are about to send . million facemasks to the schools, since it is essential that our kids can take their final exams safely, Commissioner for the Coronavirus Emergency Domenico Arcuri told a press conference. As all schools and universities in the country have remained physically closed for the whole COVID emergency  with teaching based on distancelearning methods only  the Education Ministry stated that upper secondary schools students would take their final exams in indoor classrooms. This will involve some , students. The distribution of the masks to the , institutes across the country, where final exams will take place starting from June , has started today, Arcuri specified. Meanwhile, . million people have so far downloaded the COVID contacttracing app Immuni on their mobile phones, according to Arcuri. The mobile app to trace coronavirus infections was officially launched by national health authorities on Monday. The app is based on Bluetooth  with no geolocalization  to record the mobile phone users movements, and is being used voluntarily and anonymously. LIQUIDITY DECREE BECOMES LAW With a confidence vote on Thursday morning, the Italian senate passed the cabinets decree that ensures liquidity to companies in distress as a result of the coronavirus emergency. Prime Minister Giuseppe Contes cabinet had issued the decree in April, and the provision needed the approval by both houses of the Italian parliament within  days to become law. The cabinet asked for a confidence vote on the decree in both lower house and senate in order to cut short the parliamentary debate. The lower house had approved it in late May.