Latest on the novel coronavirus outbreak
2020/6/5 11:01
? Kenyan fashion designer Ruth Martin wears a protective face mask, as she dresses a mannequin with her latest creation inside her studio in downtown Nairobi, Kenya, April , .  With the fashion industry being one of the hardest hit sectors in Africa due to the coronavirus pandemic, experts have urged investors in the sector to embrace innovation in order to remain afoot. In a webinar held on Tuesday and organized by the African Development Bank, experts and sector players said African designers should develop their unique business models and take advantage of online tools to strengthen businesses. African fashion is rising right now. African designers need to develop their unique business model and have to be innovative. To do so, digital is key. Its a tool that we can truly leverage to our advantage. Africa has many stories to share and tell, Sarah Diouf, founder of Tongoro, an online fashion brand focusing on made in Africa label, said. Wakiuru Njuguna, an investment manager and partner at the HEVA Fund, an east African fund that invests in creative sector, said sustainability will be key to the future of fashion. Going forward, sustainable fashion is going to be the way to go. The African fashion brands need to be ready to answer the questions they will be asked, Njuguna said. In a report published in April, Boston Consulting Group said business decision makers and sustainability professionals in the fashion industry should protect critical assets to survive the economic crisis. Additionally, fashion companies must safeguard workers, capital, value chain partnerships, channels, and the trust as well as support of their customers. This moment is an opportunity to remove unnecessary complexity and costs, in order to prepare for reinvestment, the report said. The report said there is need to integrate sustainability throughout business recovery strategies noting that sustainability will be an imperative for strong companies after the crisis. The African fashion industry has been evolving significantly over the recent past, with many designers from across the continent taking part in the international arena to showcase their designs and creativity. African Fashion Week has provided a key platform for designers to showcase what the continent has to offer to the world. According to Euromonitor, a global market research firm, the apparel and footwear market in SubSaharan Africa is worth  billion. However, like many other sectors, Africas fashion industry has been hit hard by the ongoing coronavirus pandemic that has infected , and killed , people across the continent by June . The lockdown measures imposed by different countries as well as the social distancing, have led to cancellation and postponement of social events such as weddings, parties and cultural events, which are key areas that bring huge business to the sector. Many designers have been left in distress as customers who had large orders cancelled them. This is despite the fact that the designers had already bought the materials. Mary Ngau, a designer based in Kenyas capital Nairobi, said she had orders for two wedding which were cancelled due to the pandemic. We can only hope that things will get better in the near future even though so many people have lost jobs, a situation that will negatively affect sales, Ngau said. Jane Ngusi, who runs a boutique, said there is no motivation to buy clothing as people are currently focusing on essential purchases.