Formula One unveils eightrace schedule in Europe from July
2020/6/5 10:31
? A man wearing a protective mask rides his bicycle past a large poster featuring Tokyo  Olympic Games mascot Miraitowa amid the coronavirus disease COVID outbreak in Tokyo, Japan on June , .  TOKYOTokyo  officials are looking at ways to scale back the postponed Olympic Games, the citys governor said on Thursday, amid reports the opening ceremony could be streamlined and spectator numbers cut. Aside from the reduction in the number of spectators, the changes could include a shortened format for the opening and closing ceremonies of the Olympics and Paralympics, Kyodo News reported. The provision of medical services and restrictions on outings from the athletes village are also being floated as possible measures against the virus. However, Japans Chief Cabinet Secretary Yoshihide Suga on Thursday stopped short of clarifying whether the government is moving away from a pledge to hold the Games in their original form. It is extremely important to host a secure and safe Games for athletes and spectators, the top government spokesman said. Separately, Japans Justice Ministry on Thursday decided to ease a ban on reentry by foreign nationals in situations requiring humanitarian consideration. Under the new plan, foreign residents whose overseas relatives have died or are in critical condition, or who require followup examinations after surgery abroad, will be allowed to reenter Japan. In South Korea, new virus cases in greater Seoul continued to rise on Thursday amid a steady increase linked to religious gatherings, putting health authorities on high alert over further spread in the densely populated metropolitan area amid concerns over asymptomatic silent virus spreaders. The country added  more cases on Thursday, raising the total number of infections to ,. Elsewhere in Asia, Indonesian President Joko Widodo on Thursday ordered authorities to double the number of COVID tests being done and aggressively trace infected people as the country gears up to more normal conditions. Authorities in the provinces of East Java, South Sulawesi and South Kalimantan, where infection rates have yet to ease, must put in extra efforts to curb coronavirus transmission, Widodo said. The country plans to resume economic activities in those areas where infections have been controlled as part of the implementation of what officials call a new normal scenario. As of Wednesday, the virus had killed , people across Indonesia and infected , others. In India, the health ministry said it was ramping up testing across the country, where  million tests have been performed. Daily capacity is approaching , tests. COVID deaths in India on Thursday crossed ,, with another record singleday spike in cases, taking the total to ,. In the Middle East, Israels parliament suspended sessions scheduled for Thursday and asked nonessential staff to stay home after a lawmaker, Sami Abou Shahadeh, tested positive for the virus. Israeli media reported on Thursday that as many as  schools had closed over fresh outbreaks. The country had reported , cases and  deaths. In Turkey, Health Minister Fahrettin Koca said on Wednesday his team would not recommend extending a weekend stayathome order as the government continues to ease containment measures. The virus has killed , people in Turkey, with more than , infections so far. Wang Xu in Tokyo, Liu Xuan in Beijing, Xinhua and agencies contributed to this story.