Pakistan to take strict actions against violators of COVID SOPs
2020/6/5 10:18
? A girl wearing a protective mask looks out from a train window as she returns to her hometown, after Pakistan started easing the lockdown restrictions and allowed to resume passenger trains, following the coronavirus disease COVID outbreak, in Karachi, Pakistan, May , .  ISLAMABAD  Pakistan decided on Thursday to take strict administrative actions for the implementation and enforcement of the standard operating procedure SOPs formed by the government to contain the spread of COVID amid a surge in new virus cases across the country, officials said. The National Command and Operation Center NCOC of Pakistan, a high level body to monitor the situation arising out of COVID, reviewed ways to implement the track, trace and quarantine strategy. Officials from different parts of the country informed the NCOC that strict administrative action has been initiated against the violators of the SOPs and social distancing in public places and high risk areas of markets, public transport and industrial sectors, an official statement said. The NCOC meeting presided over by minister for planning Asad Umar discussed the implementation of the SOPs, safety and quarantine guidelines to avoid spread of the coronavirus with the provincial chief secretaries. Speaking on the occasion, Umar said the heart of the strategy to contain the risk of the contagion is to ensure the SOPs compliance and enforcement of quarantine measures. He added that all measures should be implemented swiftly to make the strategy a success in overcoming the risk of the COVID spread. Officials informed the meeting that strict SOPs and social distancing would be ensured whereas on violation the entire market, business center and plaza would be sealed. They said that fines were imposed on the transport sector for violating SOPs while a fine would also be imposed on not wearing face masks at public places and high risk areas. The death toll of COVID has risen to , with , confirmed cases in Pakistan, according to data updated by the countrys health ministry on Thursday.