COVID pandemic still threatening Canadians health, Trudeau says
2020/6/5 10:12
? Canadas Prime Minister Justin Trudeau pauses during a news conference on Parliament Hill in Ottawa, Ontario, Canada, May , .  OTTAWA  Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau warned on Thursday that the COVID pandemic remains serious in Canada. The rise in infections has slowed across all age groups and in most regions of the country, but Trudeau said the situation remains serious in some regions where large numbers of new cases are still being reported, as well as in places like longterm care homes. I want to be very clear. Were not out of the woods. The pandemic is still threatening the health and safety of Canadians, Trudeau said at a press conference on Thursday. While we start loosening some restrictions, we also have to strengthen other measure... And as people head back to work, its even more important that we keep a twometer distance from others, wash our hands, and wear a mask when physical distancing is not always possible, Trudeau added. Meanwhile, Canadas Chief Public Health Officer Theresa Tam warned that Canada could see explosive growth in new COVID cases if reopening is not done with caution. According to new shortterm federal modeling released by Health Canada on Thursday, as of June , the country could see between , and , cases, and between , and , deaths. These models all tell us that if we relax too much, or too soon, the epidemic will most likely rebound with explosive growth as a distinct possibility, Tam said. As of Thursday afternoon, according to CTV News, Canada reported , cases of COVID, with , deaths and , recoveries. There are big regional disparities in the way the pandemic is affecting Canada, Tam said. Ontario and Quebec have accounted for more than  percent of national COVID cases in the past  days. There has been no community transmission in Prince Edward Island, the Northwest Territories and the Yukon, and no cases have been reported to date in Nunavut, the only Canadian jurisdiction that has remained COVIDfree so far. The numbers showed COVID is still disproportionately hitting Canadians in longterm care and seniors homes. While outbreaks in these facilities represent  percent of all cases, residents of longterm facilities and nursing homes represent  percent of Canadas COVIDrelated deaths, she said. Hospitals, correctional facilities, meat and poultry plants, work camps and shelters represent the other most important outbreak settings, Tam said. Canadas largest outbreak occurred at the Cargill meatprocessing plant in Alberta with , cases among workers, household and community members, she added. Strict public health measures in these settings are an absolutely vital aspect of controlling outbreaks, Tam said. I think the collective amount of global information but also in Canada shows in closed crowded places, close contacts lead to what we might call these bigger or larger clusters or sometimes what we call superspreading events, the health officer added.