CIMC ramps up overseas efforts for more growth
2020/6/5 7:46
For nearly three months, Stella Wang has lived with  rolls of toilet paper in her tiny squarefoot apartment after snapping them up online after the coronavirus pandemic hit Hong Kong. Its one of her most valuable commodities, along with face masks and sanitizers, as she and other panicstricken residents hunker down for what could possibly be a tough, protracted fight against the coronavirus. The four large boxes of toilet paper rolls would take up more than half of her living room if they were to be placed on the floor. To avoid using up her apartments limited space, Wang had to be creative when finding places to stuff them  under the sofa, atop the water heater, in a suitcase. There are still half of them left after I tried to use them up and gave a lot to friends, the yearold insurance company employee said. But I have no regrets at all. Theyre indeed a precious possession. Toilet paper became a highly soughtafter item in Hong Kong as the city braced itself in February for a surge in COVID infections, with shoppers emptying supermarket shelves of the product while also hoarding face masks, disinfectants and liquid soap. Wang recalled that at that time, the panic buying resembled a gold rush, and it would be a matter of pure luck if one could find even one roll of toilet paper in a supermarket or convenience store. So she had to go online for these items, which had to travel hundreds of kilometers from the Chinese mainland to Hong Kong. The pandemic has greatly changed the pattern of consumer behavior, at least for the short term. People were in the dark as to what would happen next, and survival was crucial. They were spending more on essential items, said Dai Xianchi, associate professor at the Department of Marketing at the Chinese University of Hong Kong. The total value of Hong Kongs retail sales sank . percent in April from a year ago. While sales of most categories declined, only the sales of commodities at supermarkets bucked the tide, surging . percent. Basic necessity categories, such as fresh food, drinks and groceries, which can be consumed at home, were the hottest items amid the pandemic. At the same time, online shopping has accelerated as people were left with no choice, having been confined to their homes, said Pascal Martin, partner with OCC Strategy Consultants. Theyre driven by necessity as they cant or seldom went out, and many were trying out online grocery shopping for the first time. He said that the past four months has probably seen greater progress in the ecommerce sector in Hong Kong than it has in the previous four years. Local ecommerce site HKTVmall saw its orders hitting a record HK million . million in March  up nearly two and a half times from the HK million for the same period the previous year. The volume retreated slightly to HK million in April, but was still up . percent yearonyear. Its number of customers making online purchases jumped to , from ,. It means people are not only buying more each time, but also more people are buying daily, said Steven Kwok, associate partner at OCC Strategy Consultants. Orders placed with overseas platforms have also gone up from the start of the year, according to crossborder logistics company PX Express. The volume of orders shipped from Japan to Hong Kong, mostly masks, rose sevenfold compared with prepandemic levels, while that from the mainland to Hong Kong soared nearly  percent. Imke Wouters, partner of retail and consumer goods practice at Oliver Wyman, said the surge in overseas online shopping has been partly driven by a lack of online offers from local ecommerce platforms. She expects ecommerce players in Hong Kong to leverage the growing consumer demand to improve their online offers while keeping the muchneeded retail spending as much as possible. Consumers always prefer onestop shopping and services even when theyre buying online, so that they can choose platforms with diversified offers ranging from garments to food, Dai said. Retailers in the city have been responding quickly to consumers changing needs. Han Zhi, director of retail at Swire Properties, said he has not found any of their tenants plan to close offline outlets and turn to online completely at the moment, but many of them are offering omnichannel experience  a multichannel approach to marketing, selling, and serving customers. Travel retailer Cdf Beauty at Citygate Outlets under Swires has been operating an online sales platform on WeChat from February. Its all about balance  merging online and offline experiences, Han said. But the crucial question is From stockpiling toilet rolls to shopping online, how many of these behaviors will still be with us once restrictions start to lift and the economy recovers from the aftermath of the pandemic? A recent survey by Ernst  Young EY showed that consumers will treat time, talent and natural resources as equally precious in the postpandemic world. A third of the respondents strongly agreed theyll reappraise the things they value most and not take certain things for granted. More than a quarter said theyll pay more attention to what they consume and what impact it has. I believe  percent of a persons consumer behavior is fixed, and the remaining  percent will shift with the changing environment, Dai said. With ecommerce very much in vogue, those who have tried it for the first time during the pandemic and found it convenient will shop online for at least some of their purchases, including bulky items like pet food, rice, toiletries, bottled water and other drinks, said OCCs Martin. Whether the majority of consumers will keep their online shopping habit will depend on how merchants seize the opportunity and explore their needs, a spokesman for AlipayHK  the Hong Kong arm of Hangzhoubased tech behemoth Alibaba Groups online payment platform  told China Daily. The digitalpayment service provider has been at the receiving end of growing inquiries about digital payment methods from merchants in recent months. It is easy for newcomers to get addicted to shopping online. Once theyve developed the habit, its impossible to get rid of it immediately, Dai said. He sees those used to reject ecommerce with concerns about privacy now are more likely to stay. As with many of the shocks encountered in life, people are in a mood to pause and reflect. Today, social attitudes toward privacy have changed slightly, as people are more willing to make their personal information available if its for the good of society. EYs survey also found that  percent of consumers worldwide would make their personal data available if it can help monitor and track an infection cluster. It said companies have to consider how increased consumer positivity around sharing data will benefit their business models. HKTVmall has said it plans to build an open data bank platform to share data related to sales transactions, user traffic, logistics and warehouse performance with merchants, suppliers, partners and academics. Contact the writer at edithluchinadailyhk.com ?