Potala Palace reopens, with limits
2020/6/4 16:15
Visitors dressed in Tibetan attire walk in front of the Potala Palace on June . Photo by Palden Nyimachinadaily.com.cn The world heritage Potala Palace in the Tibet autonomous region, which reopened to visitors on Wednesday, is allowing a maximum of , people per day, about onethird of the , per day allowed before the coronavirus pandemic, to guard against a new outbreak. The site reopened after being closed for more than four months. But the disease has been brought under basic control nationwide, so visits can resume if certain preconditions set by the authorities are met. Adequate epidemic control measures are in place, including online ticket reservations, divided visitation times, health reporting and a limit on the number of daily visitors, according to a notice on the palaces website. Visitors can find information about reservations and visiting procedures on the palaces public WeChat account. Visiting the palace requires a reservation one day in advance. Each visitor is asked to provide an ID, a health condition QR code and a mask before being admitted. Tickets must be purchased via WeChat or Alipay, and visits can take place between  am and  pm. No one is admitted after  pm. A visitors QR electronic ticket must be shown three times during the visit. Visitors from outside the region are required to fill in a health chart online before entering Tibet. Children under . meters tall are admitted free, while students, the disabled, military members, teachers and those over  get a  percent ticket discount with valid documentation. Two tourists pose for a photo in front of the Potala Palace. Photo by Palden Nyimachinadaily.com.cn A summer view of the park in front of the Potala Palace. Photo by Palden Nyimachinadaily.com.cn A summer view of Dzongyab Lukhang Park behind the Potala Palace. Photo by Palden Nyimachinadaily.com.cn Tourists pose for a photo in front of the Potala Palace. Photo by Palden Nyimachinadaily.com.cn Tourists bow at the Potala Palace. Photo by Palden Nyimachinadaily.com.cn