Asian nations gear up with new test, drug options
2020/6/4 10:27
? Tokyo Governor Yuriko Koike wears a protective face mask during a press preview of a hotel that has been designated to accommodate asymptomatic people and those with light symptoms of the coronavirus disease COVID to free up hospital beds and alleviate work by nurses and staff members, in Tokyo, Japan on May , .  TOKYOJapan has approved a safer and easier saliva test for COVID as the Tokyo municipal government issued an alert after confirming the highest daily tally of coronavirus infections in weeks. Yuriko Koike, the capitals governor said the alert is a way of urging residents to remain cautious but doesnt alter the citys plan to gradually reopen the economy. There were  new infections reported in the capital on Wednesday and  on Tuesday, a big surge since Japan fully lifted its state of emergency last week. We want to continue resuming social and economic activities while preventing the spread of COVID. Well need cooperation from all residents, Koike said. Meanwhile, Japans health ministry on Tuesday approved the use of a polymerase chain reaction coronavirus test using saliva, thought to be safer and easier to administer, to be used alongside the current tests which swab mucus from the back of the nostril. The test kits, which will be covered by national health insurance, are to be used for testing patients within nine days of exhibiting symptoms. Separately, a team of Japanese researchers has succeeded in creating miniature bronchipassageways that conduct air into the lungsfrom human cells, paving the way for them to be used to study the virus and help develop drugs. Elsewhere in Asia, South Korea said on Wednesday it has approved the emergency use of Gilead Sciences remdesivir to treat COVID after a government panel last week cited positive results for the antiviral drug in other countries. Remdesivir, administered intravenously in hospital, is a drug that shows improvement in COVID patients in formal clinical trials. Under guidelines by South Koreas Ministry for Food and Drug Safety, doctors can administer one dose of remdesivir a day, with five doses overall for patients with moderate symptoms, and  doses for those with severe symptoms and who need oxygen support. South Korea had recorded , cases and  deaths by Tuesday. Folk dancers sell face masks for a living in Rawalpindi, Pakistan, on Tuesday, as celebration parties have been temporarily banned to curb the spread of the coronavirus.?ANJUM NAVEEDAP In Pakistan, another lawmaker, Mian Jamshed Kakakhel, died on Wednesday after testing positive for the virus. So far, four Pakistani lawmakers have died due to the virus, which has infected , people in Pakistan and killed , since February. In Africa, a South African court ruled on Tuesday that the lockdown regulations in the country are unconstitutional and invalid. Some of the regulations promulgated by the government simply did not meet the rationality test in preventing the spread of COVID, the North Gauteng High Court said in its ruling. The court gave the government  days to amend and republish the regulations. In response, the government said in a statement it will study the judgment. Wang Xu in Tokyo,Liu Xuan in Beijing, Xinhua and agencies contributed to this story.