Struggles of AfricanAmericans in the US
2020/6/4 10:12
Protests have already persisted for days across the US over the death of George Floyd, an unarmed AfricanAmerican, at the hands of Minneapolis police. Demonstrators took to the streets  not only to express their outrage at the treatment of Floyd  but to call for rooting out racism. The US has a long history of unfair and unequal treatment of AfricanAmericans. This manifests in various ways. AfricanAmericans are more likely to be treated as criminals. They are also treated differently in health care, education, and in the labor market. The statistics below further illuminate the hardships faced by AfricanAmericans in the country nowadays. Under US law A protester shouts slogans to the police following the death in Minneapolis police custody of George Floyd on a street in lower Mahattan in New York, US, May , .  According to the US National Council on Crime and Delinquency, Black youths referred to juvenile court are likelier to be incarcerated or wind up in adult court or prison than white youth despite similar crime rates. Black Americans make up roughly  percent of juvenile arrests and referrals to juvenile court as well as  percent of incarcerated juveniles,  percent of juveniles sent to criminal court and  percent of juveniles sent to adult prison. AfricanAmericans are arrested for drug use at a much higher rate than white Americans, although surveys show actual drug use is at similar levels in both groups. In , around  out of every , AfricanAmericans were arrested for drug use, compared to around  out of every , white Americans, according to FBI and US Census data. A number of studies have shown race influences the likelihood a defendant will receive the death penalty. In Harris County, Texas, for example, the District Attorneys Office was more than three times as likely to pursue the death penalty against black defendants as their white counterparts, according to an analysis released in  by University of Maryland criminology professor Ray Paternoster. On economy People wait for a distribution of masks and food in the Harlem neighborhood of New York, US, April , .  Under the circumstances of the COVID outbreak and protests in the United States, AfricanAmericans economic reality has started to draw public attention. A survey by Pew Research found that in April,  percent of AfricanAmericans said that they or someone in their household experienced a job or wage loss due to the coronavirus outbreak, compared to  percent of white adults. During the pandemic, another blow for AfricanAmericans has been unemployment, which often leads to homelessness. The US Bureau of Labor Statistics reported on May  that the country shed . million jobs in April, and the unemployment rate rose to an unprecedented . percent. Among the unemployed, . percent are African Americans, who rely heavily on the leisure and hospitality sector, which lost  percent of its jobs as travel ground to a near halt. Three quarters of them admitted that they dont have emergency funds to cover expenses, and more than  percent cannot pay some bills. Even relief isnt equitable. A survey found black businesses were less likely to be approved for aid from the federal governments Paycheck Protection Program. Experts warn that could worsen the financial wealth gap between whites and blacks. In labor market, AfricanAmericans also have more difficulties to get a job, never mind a good one, than their white counterparts. They continue to face systematically higher unemployment rates, fewer job opportunities, lower pay, poorer benefits and greater job instability. They also receive fewer employerprovided benefits than white workers. Only a little more than half of AfricanAmericans  . percent  had private health insurance in , compared with . percent of whites. On healthcare A woman holds a child as she walks past people waiting in line to receive testing during the global outbreak of the coronavirus disease COVID outside Roseland Community Hospital in Chicago, Illinois, US, April , .  As the number of deaths from the novel coronavirus moves past , in the US, AfricanAmericans account for a disproportionate share of COVID fatalities. As of May , about  percent of reported COVID deaths in the US are AfricanAmericans, even though they constitute roughly  percent of the total population according to racial demographic information released by the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. There is also a disproportionate percentage of AfricanAmerican deaths at the state level. According to CDC data, AfricanAmericans make up  percent of Louisianas population, but they account for about  percent of COVID deaths. In Michigan, AfricanAmericans make up roughly  percent of the population and account for about  percent of deaths. Existing health differences, such as poorer basic health and barriers to health care, may make members of ethnic and minority groups particularly vulnerable to public health emergencies such as the COVID outbreak, according to a CDC report. AfricanAmericans are almost twice as likely to be uninsured as whites. In all age groups, AfricanAmericans are less likely than whites to be able to see a doctor in an average year due to cost. Longterm mistrust of the health care system, language barriers, and the financial impact associated with missing work to receive care also lead to asymmetric treatment. Compared with whites, AfricanAmericans have a higher mortality rate and a higher prevalence of chronic diseases. The CDC released a report on March  that said smokers and people with diabetes, chronic lung disease or heart disease may be at increased risk of developing serious complications if they get infected with COVID. According to a CNBC report, diseases such as diabetes, hypertension and asthma are more likely to plague AfricanAmericans than other racial groups. On education Mila ContrerasGodfrey, a graduating senior at Beaver Country Day School, waits in her prom dress for her classmates to arrive to pose for photographs, after prom was cancelled due to the coronavirus disease COVID outbreak, at Larz Anderson Park in Brookline, Massachusetts, US, May , .  While AfricanAmericans are catching up to their white counterparts in terms of college enrollment, there has been less progress in closing the degree attainment gap. According to data released by US Department of Education,  percent of African Americans  to year olds held a bachelors degree or higher in , up  percentage points from  percent in . By comparison, degree attainment for white aged  to  increased from  percent to  percent during the same time period. In , about  percent of AfricanAmerican adults aged  to  had at least a twoyear college degree, an increase from  percent in . Among white adults, this level of degree attainment grew from  percent in  to  percent in . AfricanAmerican children, on average, score lower on tests and are given lower grades than Asian, White and Latino students. In adolescence, many of them fail courses and drop out of school, according to an article published in Young Children by the National Association for the Education of Young Children in the US.