Protesters fill Floyds hometown
2020/6/3 16:33
A delivery man for Coupang Jung Imhong wearing a mask to prevent contracting the coronavirus, checks an address as he works in Incheon, South Korea, March , .  SEOUL  South Korea unveiled the countrys biggestever supplementary budget plan Wednesday to tackle an economic fallout from the COVID outbreak across the world. The extra budget plan worth . trillion won . billion will be submitted to the National Assembly for approval, according to the Ministry of Economy and Finance. If approved, it would be the countrys largestever supplementary budget. The previous high was . trillion won  billion earmarked in  to deal with the global financial crisis. Of the total, . trillion won . billion will be financed through the issuance of government bonds, while the remaining . trillion won . billion will be funded through an adjusted fiscal expenditure. Minister of Economy and Finance Hong Namki, who doubles as deputy prime minister for economic affairs, told a press briefing that the COVID outbreak roiled domestic demand, such as consumption and investment, as well as export and tourism coming from the global economic downturn. Hong noted that the worsening of economic situations and the employment shock was coming into a clearer sight, explaining why the government drew up the third extra budget plan in  alone. Real gross domestic product GDP, adjusted for inflation, dived . percent in the JanuaryMarch quarter from the previous quarter, marking the biggest quarterly fall in over  years since the fourth quarter of . The number of jobs tumbled , in April from a year earlier, logging the biggest decline in over  years since February . The government has announced a total of  trillion won  billion worth of measures to financially support microbusiness owners, small and big companies that were hit hard by the coronavirus pandemic. It spent fiscal money to encourage companies to maintain workforce, while providing relief grants for all households to bolster consumer spending. To finance the expansionary fiscal policy, two extra budget plans worth . trillion won . billion and . trillion won  billion each were passed through the parliament earlier this year. The third supplementary budget plan came amid the gloomier outlook for the South Korean economy. Earlier this week, the finance ministry revised down its  growth outlook for the economy to . percent from its previous forecast of . percent unveiled six months earlier. The Bank of Korea BOK announced a grimmer outlook, expecting the economy to contract . percent this year. It was sharply down from the BOKs previous expectation of . percent growth. The BOK slashed its target rate by  basis points to a new alltime low of . percent last week, after cutting the rate by  basis points in March. To prepare for a postCOVID era in the medium term and tackle an economic crisis and create jobs in the short term, the government will push for a socalled South Korean version of the New Deal consisting of  government projects that include  for digital New Deal, eight for green New Deal, and five for employment safety net. A combined government fund worth  trillion won  billion will be spent on the New Deal projects by the end of . During the first phase that will ran through , . trillion won . billion will be spent on digital New Deal to solidify a digital ecosystem using G networks, artificial intelligence AI and big data, expand a digital infrastructure especially in rural areas, and foster nonfacetoface digital industries. For green New Deal, . trillion won . billion will be allotted by  to build an environmentallyfriendly infrastructure, create a green ecosystem for green industries, and boost a fuel efficiency in houses and cars. By ,  trillion won  billion will be allocated for the employment safety net that aims to financially support jobless people for a sustainable growth.