Virus reaches office of Israeli leader
2020/6/3 11:02
? Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu wears a mask as he looks on during the weekly cabinet meeting in Jerusalem on May , .  JERUSALEMAn employee in Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahus office tested positive for the coronavirus, his office said on Monday, without saying whether the yearold leader had been exposed. A statement from Netanyahus office said an epidemiological investigation is being conducted, which will provide appropriate guidelines for those who came into contact with the employee. Meanwhile, Israel has launched a national plan to clean up public spaces in local authorities. It includes several actions, most notably the setting of an index for cleanliness and the monitoring of the public spaces, as well as giving assistance to local authorities to improve cleanliness levels. Elsewhere in Asia, the Indian government on Monday cleared a . billion debt scheme to help stressed micro, small and mediumsized enterprises, and approved a new definition for these units, as the country continues to see large daily increase in cases. The western state of Maharashtra and its capital Mumbai crossed the , and , marks for cases, respectively, data released showed on Monday. Nationwide, there were , confirmed cases. Singapore is racing to create additional housing for about , migrant workers by the end of this year, as it seeks to reduce the density in dormitories that have seen mass outbreaks of the virus. The nation has more than , cases, largely due to infections in cramped, bunkbed accommodation. The government will create additional space through temporary structures that can be put together quickly in a modular form, and will also temporarily fit out unused state properties, such as former schools and vacant factories. Indonesia reported  new cases on Tuesday, taking the total number to ,, said health ministry official Achmad Yurianto. In the Philippines, major airlines say they plan to resume limited domestic flights from Wednesday, following a government move to ease quarantine restrictions. However, international commercial flights remain suspended, except for a few sweeper flights to repatriate stranded Filipino workers and some foreigners, Presidential Spokesman Harry Roque said on Tuesday. New Zealands Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern said on Tuesday that all remaining restrictions may be lifted next week, after the country all but eliminated the virus domestically. Ardern said New Zealand could move to alert level one next week, which means all social distancing measures and curbs on mass gatherings will be lifted. Borders will remain closed, she said. In South Africa, the number of infections continued to rise on Monday as the country eased the national lockdown from level four to level three, allowing  million people to return to work. Schools will reopen on June . As of Monday, the number of infections in South Africa stood at ,, with  deaths. Xinhua  Agencies