Russians to decide on charter reforms on July
2020/6/3 10:32
? A woman wearing a protective mask, used as a measure to prevent the spread of coronavirus disease COVID, stands at a public transport station near a board informing of a nationwide vote on constitutional changes in Stavropol, Russia on March , .  MOSCOWRussia will hold a nationwide vote on constitutional reforms on July , President Vladimir Putin said on Monday. Putin postponed the original vote, which had been set for April , because of the coronavirus outbreak, saying the health and safety of citizens was his top priority as the coronavirus crisis worsened. But he said the situation has now broadly stabilized and the number of coronavirus infections in Moscow has dropped sharply, allowing the capital to start easing some restrictions. The changes that Russians will vote on, already approved by parliament and Russias Constitutional Court, would reset Putins presidential term tally to zero, allowing him to serve two more backtoback sixyear terms until  if reelected. I really hope the countrys citizens will take part actively in the vote on the amendments to the Constitution, Putin, whose current term ends in , told a televised government meeting. He emphasized the importance of the vote, saying that the Constitution forms the foundation of our countrys life, the lives of our children, and will determine the main legal guarantees, key social and labor relations guarantees as well as principles of our interaction with international partners. Under the current law, Putin, , wouldnt be able to run for president again in  because of term limits. A new measure would reset his term count, allowing him to run for two more sixyear terms if he chooses. Putin said Russia will have  days before the vote to take additional efforts to control contagion and make the plebiscite fully safe. Officials reported to Putin that voters will have a chance to cast ballots in the six days before July  to reduce crowds and increase safety amid the pandemic. They said that at some polling stations voting could be held outdoors to help make it safer. , new cases a day While the spread of the outbreak has slowed down, Russia has the worlds thirdlargest caseload, with nearly , infections. It is also continuing to record a steady increase in the number of new cases, with more than , new cases reported over the  hours until Tuesday morning. The Kremlin has said the authorities will take all necessary measures to ensure voters safety. Russias economy has been hit hard in the last two months, both by lower oil prices and a lockdown that has stoked resentment among some business owners. Last week, Putin said that the countrys military parade to mark the th anniversary of the Soviet victory against the Nazis in World War II, postponed from May  because of the pandemic, will be held on June . Agencies  Xinhua