Liaoning guide dog training center provides a vision of care
2020/6/3 9:32
Visitors are served at a family restaurant in Yangling village, Jingyuan, a county in Ningxia Hui autonomous region, on May . HU DONGMEICHINA DAILY Editors note With China set to meet its goal this year of eliminating extreme poverty before next years th anniversary of the founding of the Communist Party of China, this new series looks at the efforts of different areas of the country to erase poverty and improve livelihoods. Region takes big leap in poverty reduction, lifting , people out of poverty last year As Chinas fiveday break began on May , many workers were busy making face masks for schoolchildren at Ningxia Quanxiang Outdoor Textile Products Co in Jingyuan, a county in the Ningxia Hui autonomous region. Huang Shuihai, the companys president, had moved the headquarters from Xiamen, a coastal city in Fujian province in Southeast China, to Ningxia in the northwest in June last year. That was a winwin move for Huangand for Jingyuan county, where the companys new headquarters is located. Unlike Xiamen, where labor costs were rising, Jingyuan county has legions of less expensive laborers who now earn more than they did before. Jingyuan county is in Xihaigu prefecture, one of Chinas most impoverished areas. In , the United Nations called it one of the least suitable areas for human habitation in the world. Xihaigu has a chronic shortage of water and a harsh climate. Xihaigu is among the last, and arguably most difficult, hurdles in achieving the national goal of eliminating absolute poverty and building a moderately prosperous society in all respects by the end of this year. With the move to Jingyuan, Huang joined the local poverty alleviation campaign, building factories in several villages and recruiting  local residents. One of the factories produces , to , masks a day with plans for , to , in the future. Since the mids, the pairing of Chinas more developed eastern regions with lessdeveloped western areas has been a key institutional arrangement in the war on poverty and has helped to bridge the previously widening wealth gap between these regions. EastWest cooperation has shown itself as an effective platform for advancing both economic growth and social stability. Cooperation helps develop regions that were previously left behind and increases opportunities for economic growth by expanding domestic demand. Yu Hongqin works at the poverty alleviation factory in Jingyuan county on May . HU DONGMEICHINA DAILY Equal development More equal development of eastern and western regions also corresponds to the national agenda. Cooperation is therefore considered a common responsibility and obligation of localities throughout the country. Fujian province is paired with Ningxia and is obliged to offer support for the northwestern region. Huang was encouraged by Fujian officials to relocate his yearold company, which produces a wide range of bagsbackpacks, handbags, school bags, duffel bags and army bagsto Ningxia. They are sold in Europe, the Americas, South Africa and Japan. Unlike some companies that cooperate by building satellite workshops in western areas but keep their headquarters in eastern areas, Huang put his entire operation, both headquarters and factories, in Ningxia. Many villagers in Jingyuan county now do not have to travel to faraway places for jobs. They can stay home as they lift their families out of poverty. Ma Caiqin was the first person Huang recruited in Jingyuan county. A housewife before joining the company, Ma is now in charge of the human resources department. She has a monthly salary of more than , yuan . After working for six months, most workers receive a monthly salary ranging from , to , yuan. Huang encourages top performers in his company to run new factories and recruit more local people. Building strong base When more people are trained to be quality industrial workers, they will build a strong base for my company, Huang said. I hope that I can cultivate a large number of industrial workers here quickly. Everyone will be good at something, and he or she will make a better living. At that time, my factories will have a sharper edge in competition. To achieve the goal of eradicating absolute poverty this year, Ningxia has advanced poverty alleviation efforts, such as offering jobs to women with children. At one of Huangs factories in Jingyuan county, almost all of the  workers are local women,  of whom had been impoverished. Yu Hongqin, a yearold mother of four, learned sewing techniques. Her left leg was badly injured in an accident  years ago, depriving her of the ability to do heavier work. For  years, she was unable to find a job and could only stay at home to care for her children. Unfortunately, her husbands income was meager, and the family barely made ends meet. In July, Yu heard about a factory offering sewing jobs to assemble bags. It was an opportunity for her to escape poverty, and she applied for a job there, along with five other women. In the first three months, they received training, learning how to operate the sewing machines. Now Yu earns nearly , yuan a month. I have two daughters who are college students. If I work harder, I can afford my childrens education so that they will have a brighter future, Yu said. Ma Kejuns grandchildren sit on the bed on May . President Xi Jinping visited their home in . HU DONGMEICHINA DAILY Significant progress Xian Hui, the head of the local government in the Ningxia Hui autonomous region, said the region made significant progress in poverty reduction last year, lifting , people out of poverty. In , the regions remaining , people will rise, according to Xinhua News Agency. The region will put longterm mechanisms in place to prevent people from returning to poverty and will not leave any family or person behind on the path, she said. Emphasizing the countrys poverty alleviation campaign, President Xi Jinping conducted inspection tours of many impoverished areas. Yangling village in Jingyuan county is one of the places he visited. On July , , President Xi came to my home. He sat with us on our kang bed, Ma Kejun, a Yangling resident, recalled. A kang bed is a hollow platform made of brick that is used both as a bed and a dining area. Hot coals beneath keep it warm day and night during harsh winters. It is a common structure in homes in the remote villages of northern China. Xi wanted to know about issues in the village, such as the drinking water, roads, housing and education, Ma said. The president took my hand and asked my age. When I said , he replied, You are younger than me, so you are my younger brother, Ma recalled with a smile. Mas home was filled with important local peoplea cattle breeder, village and county heads and representatives of the local Chinese Communist Partywho had been invited to speak with Xi. Xi urged Party members to be proactive in tackling poverty. Following that advice, the local authorities created a plan to alleviate poverty in Jingyuan county by developing parks and tourism related to the forests. Rising forest cover After decades of ecological rehabilitation, coupled with grazing bans, Guyuan, the city that administers Jingyuan county, now boasts a total forested area of , hectares. It has a  percent coverage rate for forest and grass. In , China established the Liupanshan Tourism Poverty Alleviation Experimental Area, the first of its kind in the country. Since then, remarkable progress has been made in the ecosystem and in the tourism sector with the support of the central and local governments. Yejia village, with  households and around , people, is a mustsee spot for tourists visiting Liupanshan National Forest Park. Ten years ago, onethird of residents in the village did not have enough to eat. Now, with the rapid development of tourism, the village has  farmstays, with the most successful one earning a net profit of more than , yuan last year. At present, we are integrating the natural resources and cultural resources of the Liupan Mountain area to establish a A scenic spot that will help more poor people in the area get out of poverty, said Wang Zhou, chairman of Ningxia Liupanshan Tourism Group. Tourist attractions or scenic areas rated A are the most important and bestmaintained travel destinations in China. Yangling village is located in the poverty alleviation experimental area. Ma Kejun, who had met President Xi, sold all his cattle to a breeding company, yuan for a big cowbecause his cowshed was too smelly for tourists. He is paid at least  yuan per cow annually. He rebuilt his cowshed into a teahouse, which is now a popular place for tourists. A booming tourism industry is helping Ma and other people in Yangling village shake off poverty and live a better life. I now earn more money thanks to an increasing influx of tourists into this scenic experimental area, Ma said with a big smile.