Wuhan completes mass COVID screening
2020/6/3 9:14
A medical worker in protective suit conducts nucleic acid testings for a woman at a residential community in Wuhan, Hubei province.  Wuhan has completed its campaign to conduct nucleic acid tests on all residents, with nearly  million residents tested for COVID, a local government official said on Tuesday. At a news conference in the Hubei provincial capital, Lu Zuxun, a public health professor at Huazhong University of Science and Technology, said from May  to June , the city conducted nucleic acid tests on ,, residents and reported  asymptomatic cases who show no clear symptoms despite carrying the virus. No confirmed cases were found, and none of the asymptomatic cases had infected other people, he said. The Wuhan center for disease control and prevention has collected sputum samples and throat swabs from  asymptomatic cases, and none of the samples has cultivated a live virus, he said. The center also collected , samples from daily items used by all  asymptomatic cases, such as masks, toothbrushes and cellphones, and none of the samples tested positive for COVID, he added. Hu Yabo, executive vicemayor of Wuhan, said all test fees have been covered by the local government. The government has spent around  million yuan  million on the tests, and it was money wellspent as the mass testing has helped reassure people in Wuhan and other regions in the country and will accelerate the citys efforts to restore its social and economic development, he said. The physical lockdown on the city was lifted on April , and after the testing campaign was finished, the psychological lockdown on Wuhan people, who have made great sacrifices fighting the epidemic, has also been lifted, he said. Most of the tests were conducted separately, but the city later accelerated the mass testing by combining test samples of five residents, he said. Doortodoor sampling was also arranged for those who had trouble visiting the testing sites, he said. Wang Weihua, deputy director of the Wuhan Health Commission, said more than , medical workers and more than , community workers participated in the campaign. By adding  medical institutions and disease control centers to conduct the tests, the city had  institutions analyze the test samples, which significantly increased the citys testing capacity, she said. These institutions also mobilized staff and equipment from around the country, with staff members increasing from  to , and testing equipment increasing by  pieces to , she said. Through these measures, the citys daily testing capability increased from , to more than  million, she added. The city had conducted nucleic acid tests on more than  million residents before the campaign started, according to the Wuhan Health Commission.