Domestic coronavirus vaccines perform well in clinical trials
2020/6/2 15:11
VIENTIANE  Most Lao students returned to schools on Tuesday as the Lao government further eased its precautionary COVID restrictions. Preschools, kindergartens and the remaining classes of primary and secondary schools whose finalyear classes resumed earlier on May  have reopened on Tuesday. Finalyear classes at technical colleges, pedagogy colleges and universities have also reopened on the same day, while other remaining classes are instructed to reopen on June . Since May , the graduating grade students of primary and secondary schools have gone back to their classrooms, to prepare for tests to gain admission into higher education levels, according to an earlier announcement from the Prime Ministers Office on May . School administrators must implement precautionary measures to prevent further outbreaks of COVID, which was recommended by the Ministry of Education and Sports and the National Taskforce Committee for COVID Prevention and Control. The measures for reopening schools include school administrators keeping their premises clean by cleaning classrooms and grounds and spraying disinfectant around their facilities to reduce the risk of infections. Administrative staff, teachers and students must wear face masks at all times at school, and parents must also wear masks while picking up their children. The Lao government also allows normal transport of goods across international borders from Tuesday. Organizations of all forms of sport competitions with no spectators, night markets and cinemas are also permitted to reopen. The Prime Ministers Office said the easing of restrictions was temporary and that if further cases of COVID were found, the rules would be reimposed in the province where the infection was detected. If clusters of infections occur in two or more provinces, the lockdown will be reintroduced nationwide. Restrictions have been further relaxed given that there have been no new confirmed COVID cases in Laos for  consecutive days as of Monday. Sixteen of the  patients who contracted the virus have been discharged from hospitals. The Lao Health Ministry announced its first two confirmed COVID cases at its daily press conference on March .