Initiative aims to put virus weapons in hands of all
2020/6/2 11:42
? New York Governor Andrew Cuomo puts on a mask as he is joined by Rosie Perez and Chris Rock at a press conference where the two performers helped to promote coronavirus testing, social distancing and the use of a face mask on May ,  in New York City.  New York early this week recorded its lowest death toll from the COVID pandemic since midMarch, when the state began limiting public activity. Governor Andrew Cuomo announced on Monday that  people died of the novel coronavirus on Sunday, the lowest number since March , when the state shut down bars and restaurants. New York is the epicenter of the virus in the United States, the country with the most cases of the respiratory disease in the world. As of Monday, the state accounted for more than , of the US caseload, which has topped . million. New York state also has suffered nearly , deaths from the illness, almost  percent of the COVID deaths in the US, which have surpassed ,, according to data compiled by Reuters. Cuomo also warned about the recent largescale protests in New York City over the death of George Floyd, an African American man who died in police custody May . We dont know the consequences of the COVID virus in mass gatherings, he said, warning that as New York City moves toward reopening on June , dont snatch defeat from the jaws of victory. A curfew was implemented in the state from  pm Monday to  am Tuesday following a night of confrontations between protesters and police and widespread looting of highend retail stores in the citys fashionable Soho neighborhood in Manhattan. Cuomo complimented the states efforts in fighting the pandemic. It took us  days to get here, he said. Is this smart? New York tough. We went from the worst situation to reopening  from the worst situation to  deaths in  days. We went from the worst situation to reopening in  days. We did that because we were New York tough. In neighboring New Jersey, which has the secondhighest number of US cases, Governor Phil Murphy announced Monday that the state will move to stage two of its reopening plan on June , with retail stores opening their doors to customers, and bars and restaurants offering outdoor dining. The next big step in our restart and recovery is just two weeks away, Murphy said at his daily coronavirus briefing in Trenton. Were ready to begin moving forward. We are ready because this progress is being seen across the state. I firmly believe we are going to stay on track. Murphy, a Democrat who was elected in , pointed to a continued reduction in the data  saying that new hospitalizations for the virus have fallen more than  percent from their peak. But other politicians say the lockdown has gone on too long. It is devastating for these business owners, Declan OScanlon, a Republican state senator, told nj.com. I hear from them every day. Grown men in tears. It is totally unnecessary. There is no scientific basis for New Jersey to be this far behind other states reopening safely. New Jersey had more than , cases and nearly , COVID deaths as of Monday. On Monday, Connecticut became the first state in the region to reopen its hair salons and barbershops, with both the stylists and customers wearing masks. Casinos in the state also reopened Monday. Were preparing to be busy, Jason Guyot, interim president and CEO at Foxwoods, told The Hartford Courant. As of Monday, Connecticut had  patients hospitalized with the coronavirus, fewer than it had at the start of April and down more than  percent from the states peak. Governor Ned Lamont announced Monday that the state suffered  more COVIDrelated deaths, putting the toll at ,. The US Congressional Budget Office forecast on Monday that the pandemic would have a longterm effect on the American economy, reducing GDP  percent through . The global debate over COVID continued Monday, as World Health Organization WHO experts and other scientists said there was no evidence to support an assertion by a highprofile Italian doctor that the virus causing the COVID pandemic has been losing potency. Professor Alberto Zangrillo, head of intensive care at San Raffaele Hospital in Lombardy, the region that bore the brunt of Italys epidemic, on Sunday told state television that the new coronavirus clinically no longer exists. But WHO epidemiologist Maria Van Kerkhove and several other experts on viruses and infectious diseases said Zangrillos comments were not supported by scientific evidence. Zangrillo, well known in Italy as the personal doctor of former prime minister Silvio Berlusconi, said his comments were backed up by a study conducted by a fellow scientist, Massimo Clementi, which Zangrillo said would be published next week. Zangrillo told Reuters We have never said that the virus has changed we said that the interaction between the virus and the host has definitely changed. The study by Clementi, director of the microbiology and virology laboratory of San Raffaele, compared virus samples from patients at the Milanbased hospital in March with samples from patients with the disease in May. The result was unambiguous an extremely significant difference between the viral load of patients admitted in March compared to those admitted last month, Zangrillo said. Reuters contributed to this story.