Orphans in Africa keep hope alive as they ride out virus
2020/6/2 10:27
In the past four months, yearold art student Liu Zhiwen created more than  copies of famous portrait paintings on a wall of his hometown of Daowu village, Central Chinas Hunan province. ?Photo provided to China Daily With face masks and social distancing, these are tough times amid the novel coronavirus outbreak. But art student Liu Zhiwen has found a way to literally bring some color into our lives. In the past four months, he has created more than  copies of famous portrait paintings on a wall in his hometown of Daowu village, Central Chinas Hunan province. He is a senior student, , majoring in oil painting at the Qingdao University of Science and Technologys College of Art in Shandong province. Painting skills need daily practice, but due to the school closure as a social distancing measure to curb the pandemic, Liu came up with this innovative way of wall painting after he came back home. In the past four months, yearold art student Liu Zhiwen created more than  copies of famous portrait paintings on a wall of his hometown of Daowu village, Central Chinas Hunan province. ?Photo provided to China Daily In the past four months, yearold art student Liu Zhiwen created more than  copies of famous portrait paintings on a wall of his hometown of Daowu village, Central Chinas Hunan province. ?Photo provided to China Daily In the past four months, yearold art student Liu Zhiwen created more than  copies of famous portrait paintings on a wall of his hometown of Daowu village, Central Chinas Hunan province. ?Photo provided to China Daily In the past four months, yearold art student Liu Zhiwen created more than  copies of famous portrait paintings on a wall of his hometown of Daowu village, Central Chinas Hunan province. ?Photo provided to China Daily In the past four months, yearold art student Liu Zhiwen created more than  copies of famous portrait paintings on a wall of his hometown of Daowu village, Central Chinas Hunan province. ?Photo provided to China Daily In the past four months, yearold art student Liu Zhiwen created more than  copies of famous portrait paintings on a wall of his hometown of Daowu village, Central Chinas Hunan province. ?Photo provided to China Daily In the past four months, yearold art student Liu Zhiwen created more than  copies of famous portrait paintings on a wall of his hometown of Daowu village, Central Chinas Hunan province. ?Photo provided to China Daily In the past four months, yearold art student Liu Zhiwen created more than  copies of famous portrait paintings on a wall of his hometown of Daowu village, Central Chinas Hunan province. ?Photo provided to China Daily