Courting controversy on a rocky road to resumption
2020/6/2 9:16
? Spains Rafael Nadal in action during the exhibition match against Switzerlands Roger Federer not pictured in?Cape Town, South Africa, Feb , .  PARISProfessional tennis has been in cold storage since March due to the coronavirus pandemic, with tournaments unlikely to resume before August. AFP Sport looks at three talking points as the sport heads into June Closeddoor conundrum In , the US Open attracted a record crowd of almost , to its sprawling Billie Jean King Tennis Center in New York. Last years French Open at Roland Garros in Paris brought in , paying customers. However, the  editions of the two remaining Grand Slam events on the calendar will look very different, with the chance of them being played behind closed doors a very real possibility to avoid the spread of the coronavirus. Roger Federer, whose Grand Slam haul includes five titles at the US Open and one in Paris, is not keen on seeing rows and rows of empty seats. I cant bear to see an empty stadium. I hope that wont happen, the Swiss star was quoted as saying by Brazilian media recently. Twotime Wimbledon winner Petra Kvitova said she too has no desire to play a major without spectators. I would like to play another Grand Slam, but if its like this, Id rather cancel them, Kvitova said. Playing without fans who are our engine doesnt look nice to me and the Grand Slam doesnt deserve it. As far as the rescheduled Roland Garros in September and October is concerned, JeanFrancois Vilotte, the directorgeneral of the French Tennis Federation FFT, told AFP The aim is that there will be spectators. But we will have the capacity to organize Roland Garros whatever the option decided, including behind closed doors. Money matters There has been no prize money to play for over the best part of three months but that hasnt stopped it being discussed. The ATP and WTA tours, the International Tennis Federation and the four Grand SlamsAustralian Open, Roland Garros, Wimbledon and US Openbacked a fund worth more than  million to support lowerranked players hardest hit by the coronavirus pandemic. World No  Novak Djokovic had already said that he, Roger Federer and Rafael Nadalthe sports biggest earners with each having banked over  million in prize money alonewere also willing to help. However, world No  Dominic Thiem was not keen on giving money to lowerranked players. Quite honestly I have to say that no tennis player will be fighting to survive, even those who are much lowerranked, said the Austrian. Marion Bartoli, the  Wimbledon champion, chimed in last week by suggesting a reduction in doubles events with prize money diverted to struggling players. You just dont make the same effort in doubles as a singles player. You dont practice so much, your routine is different. I dont know if we have to stop doubles completely, but to get less money and give that money to qualification and others, that could be the solution. Exhibition exceptions Despite the shutdown of the professional tours, there is some tennis going on in the world at a series of tightly controlled exhibition events. Germany kicked it off on May  with an eightman exhibition in the tiny town of HoehrGrenzhausen, near Koblenz which featured Dustin Brown, who famously defeated Rafael Nadal at Wimbledon in . Strict rules over health and safety meant there were no fans, no ball boys or girls and no line judges. There was just a chair umpire. Handshakes were banned, players handled their own towels and brought their own water and fruit to the clay courts. Similar events followed in the US before Petra Kvitova won an allCzech event in Prague last week. The gloves, face masks, the fact nobody handed us the towels, no handshakes, that was definitely bizarre, said Kvitova. Other exhibitions are scheduled including a World Team Tennis tournament in West Virginia in July featuring Australian Open champion Sofia Kenin and  US Open winner Sloane Stephens. Andy Murray will return from his latest injury problem on June  in a charity tournament in London. After criticizing Thiems stance on helping out the lowerranked players, Australian Nick Kyrgios is due to join the Austrian at a grasscourt eventlikely the only one this summerat Berlins Tempelhof Airport from July . Agence FrancePresse