China pushes marketbased reform despite epidemic
2020/6/2 0:00
Violent protests continued to convulse cities in the United States as officials struggled to restore order over the weekend, including imposing curfews, amid anger unleashed after the death of a black man in police custody in Minneapolis, Minnesota. China said on Monday that it hopes the US will eliminate racial discrimination and safeguard the lawful rights of ethnic minorities in the country. Black lives matter and their human rights should be guaranteed, Foreign Ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian said at a daily news briefing, adding that racism against ethnic minorities is a chronic disease in US society. The unrest triggered by the death of George Floyd again reflects the severity of racism and police violence in the US and the urgency to solve those problems, Zhao said. China hopes the US will fulfill its obligations under the United Nations Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination and take concrete measures to secure the legitimate rights of ethnic minorities, he said. Police departments across the US watched patrol cars and other vehicles set ablaze as they confronted lines of protesters. On Sunday, authorities also imposed curfews in the capital, Washington, DC, and other major US cities to prevent fresh rioting. Washingtons mayor ordered a curfew from  pm to  am as tensions rose between protesters and police outside the White House. The death of Floyd and racism against African Americans also were strongly condemned in Africa. African Union Commission Chairman Moussa Faki Mahamat condemned Floyds death in a statement on Friday, saying, The AU Commission firmly reaffirms and reiterates its rejection of the continuing discriminatory practices against black citizens of the United States of America. Saying that the voices against racial discrimination from Africa are a universal consensus of the international community, Zhao said he hopes the US will listen to the appeal for justice from Africa. China will stand with and support Africa in opposing all forms of racial discrimination and remarks provoking racism and hatred, he said. Meanwhile, a New York Times report said President Donald Trump had been rushed by Secret Service agents into an underground bunker at the White House on Friday night during another protest. Late on Sunday night, multiple fires were set near the White House as protesters were facing off with police firing tear gas and pepper spray. In Philadelphia on Sunday, protesters ransacked stores and set fires. City police said they had made  arrests as of Sunday afternoon. Deeply saddened by the destruction we saw last night in Center City. In looting downtown, these individuals not only desecrated private businesses, they also desecrated the important message that was heard in the earlier, peaceful protests, Mayor Jim Kenney said on Twitter on Sunday. The city announced a curfew between  pm and  am after a day of protests and looting. Law  Order in Philadelphia, NOW! US President Donald Trump tweeted. They are looting stores. Call in our great National Guard like they FINALLY did thank you President Trump last night in Minneapolis. In the New York City borough of Brooklyn, a patrol car being pelted with projectiles on Saturday slowly accelerated through a group of protesters, and Mayor Bill de Blasio called for an investigation of the incident. Also in New York, an officer was recorded roughly shoving a young woman to the pavement after she had approached a phalanx of police, and another was shown lifting the mask of a protester and pepperspraying him. After two separate incidents in Brooklyn over the weekend, two lawyers and a young woman were charged with throwing improvised gasoline bombs at police vehicles. The New York Police Department made  arrests on Saturday, and  officers were injured. Graffiti was scrawled on St. Patricks Cathedral in Manhattan. Protesters also marched in Times Square on Sunday. The nationwide unrest started after Floyd, , died on May  after a Minneapolis police officer knelt on his neck for almost nine minutes. The officer, Derek Chauvin, has been charged with thirddegree murder and manslaughter. He and three other city officers were fired shortly after the incident. Trump, who has mostly taken a hard line against the protests in several posts on Twitter, declared on Sunday that a leftwing movement of different groups called antifa was a domestic terrorist organization. Antifa, short for antifascist, was accused by US Attorney General William Barr of infiltrating the protests in various cities and fomenting disorder. Former vicepresident Joe Biden, the presumptive Democratic nominee to face Trump in Novembers presidential election, tweeted on Sunday We are a nation in pain right now, but we must not allow this pain to destroy us. As President, I will help lead this conversationand more importantly, I will listen. US House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, appearing on ABCs This Week on Sunday, said Democratic and Republican presidents alike have seen it as their responsibility to be a unifying force in our country, not to fuel the flame. President Trump has made clear he would rather distract than perform his duty. Other major US cities where clashes intensified over the weekend included Atlanta, Chicago, Dallas, Houston, Los Angeles and Washington. Houston Mayor Sylvester Turner said on Sunday that Floyds body will be returned to the city. This is the same city that George Floyd grew up in, and his body will be returning to this city, Turner said at a news conference. And so the focus needs to be on supporting and uplifting his family. Atlanta Mayor Keisha Lance Bottoms said on CBS Face the Nation I think that there is a place in America for peaceful protest, and we know that peaceful protests have had a history of changing things in this country. But it has to be organized and it has to be for a purpose. And when you have violent eruptions like weve seen across America, then we lose sight of even what we are talking about. May Zhou in Houston, Liu Xuan and Zhou Jin in Beijing, Xinhua and agencies contributed to this story. hengweilichinadailyusa.com A police officer takes a knee on Sunday in Washington, DC, near the White House to show solidarity with demonstrators protesting the death of a black man in police custody in Minneapolis, Minnesota, on May . National Guard troops patrolled major US cities after five consecutive nights of violent protests. ROBERTO SCHMIDTAFP