Violence rocks US cities amid effort to restore order
2020/6/1 16:19
? A lifeguard wearing a protective face mask takes the temperature of a woman at a newly reopened beach after months of closure due to an outbreak of the coronavirus disease COVID, at Punta Hidalgo, in Punta Ala, Italy, May , .? BEIJING  More countries in Europe and Asia began to ease restrictions and resume operations, but more than  million cases of COVID have been recorded in Latin America and the Caribbean, now the new epicenter of the coronavirus pandemic. Globally, confirmed COVID cases have surpassed . million, according to data compiled by the Center for Systems Science and Engineering at Johns Hopkins University. NEW EPICENTER Brazil on Sunday said its nationwide tally of confirmed COVID cases reached , after , people tested positive in the past  hours, while the death toll neared ,. Its death toll rose to ,, the fourth highest in the global pandemic after the United States, Britain and Italy, after  deaths had been reported since Saturday, while another , deaths are still being investigated for any linkage with COVID, the Ministry of Health said. Also on Sunday, Mexicos Deputy Health Minister Hugo LopezGatell said that the country reported , new coronavirus cases in the past  hours, bringing the total number of confirmed cases in the country to ,. There were  new coronavirus deaths in Mexico, taking total fatalities to ,, LopezGatell added. Meanwhile, Chiles COVID cases increased by , to reach , on Sunday. In the past  hours,  more patients died, the highest number of fatalities in a single day so far, taking the death toll from the disease to ,. A lockdown is in effect in the capital Santiago and the metropolitan area through June , as the region is the epicenter of the countrys outbreak. In recent weeks, Chile has seen an exponential rise in the number of cases and deaths, leading the government to set up field hospitals to deal with the growing number of patients. EASING RESTRICTIONS Italy has now recorded fewer than  new cases per day for eight consecutive days, a dramatic drop from peaks of more than , new infections a day, when Italy was the epicenter of the pandemic in late March. Recent trends show that the spread of the virus has slowed dramatically despite a gradual easing of Italys national lockdown at a twoweek interval, first on May  and again on May . The next step toward easing will come on June , when Italians will be allowed to move freely between regions even if for nonessential reasons. It will be the first time such travels will be allowed since March , the day before the national lockdown entered into force. Many businesses across Turkey on Sunday also prepared to resume operation for the first time after over two months of closure amid a slowdown in the spread of COVID. Restaurants, cafes, parks, beaches, daycare centers, kindergartens, libraries, sports facilities, swimming pools, and museums will be operational as of June  as part of the new normalization process announced on May . Following the announcement, the Health Ministry prepared a guide in particular for the eating and drinking industry, explaining the new rules in a detailed way. Likewise, the Egyptian government on Sunday announced a decision to reduce its curfew from  hours to nine, following a meeting led by Prime Minister Mostafa Madbouly. The government has already started gradual reopening of services and offices suspended since midMarch amid a coexistence plan to maintain anticoronavirus precautionary measures while resuming services, businesses and economic activities. Chairing Saturdays Downing Street daily briefing, British Culture Secretary Oliver Dowden said Britons will be able to exercise outside with up to five others from different households from Monday, provided that strict social distancing guidelines are followed. He also announced that from Monday, competitive sport will be allowed behind closed doors in England, paving the way for the return of live sports on TV screens in almost three months. The move came as some experts warned that lifting restrictions before cases come down is too risky. Professor Jonathan VanTam, Englands deputy chief medical officer, said that Britons need to actually follow the guidance.