Egypt sees daily record of , COVID infections, tally nears ,
2020/6/1 9:11
People wearing face masks to prevent the spread of the coronavirus disease COVID walk in downtown Cairo, after Egypts government made wearing masks mandatory in public places and public transport, in Cairo, Egypt May , .? CAIRO  Egypt reported on Sunday a new record of , COVID daily infections, raising the total number of cases registered in the country to ,, the Egyptian Health Ministry said. It is the fourth consecutive day for Egypts COVID daily infections to surpass ,. Meanwhile, the most populous Arab country saw the highestsingle day fatalities as  patients died from the novel coronavirus on Sunday, bringing the death toll to , the ministrys spokesman Khaled Megahed said in a statement. The country also witnessed a record of daily recoveries as  patients were cured and discharged from hospitals, increasing the total recoveries to ,, according to the statement. All the cases registered as positive for the virus receive medical care at isolation and quarantine hospitals in accordance with the guidelines of the World Health Organization, Megahed reiterated. Egypt announced its first confirmed COVID infection on Feb.  and the first death from the pandemic on March . Since March , the Egyptian government has been imposing a constantly renewed nighttime curfew, of which hours varied between nine and  based on the situation, to curb the spread of the virus. Earlier on Sunday, the government announced reducing the curfew from  hours to nine hours, following a meeting led by Prime Minister Mostafa Madbouly. The government has already started gradual reopening of services and offices suspended since midMarch amid a coexistence plan to maintain anticoronavirus precautionary measures while resuming services, businesses and economic activities. It has also allowed reopening of dozens of hotels for local tourists after they have been inspected and given hygiene safety certificates from a government special committee. Egypt and China join hands in fighting the COVID pandemic through exchanging medical aid and expertise to curb the spread of the deadly respiratory disease. In early February, Egypt was among the first nations to provide aid to China in its fight against the coronavirus outbreak. China, after having largely controlled the pandemic, returned favor by sending three batches of medical aid to Egypt, the latest of which was delivered in midMay. Since midApril, Chinese doctors have held three video conferences with Egyptian counterparts to share their experiences in the prevention and treatment of the novel coronavirus.