Chinese theaterloving kids to celebrate Childrens Day online
2020/5/30 20:30
Men wear masks as they walk in front of the Ruins of St. Pauls in Macao, Feb , .  MACAO  The Gross Domestic Product GDP of Macao dropped by . percent yearonyear in real terms in the first quarter of , the special administrative region SARs statistic service said here on Saturday. The latest report from the Statistics and Census Service DSEC said that although no widespread transmission of COVID was observed in the region, the economy of Macao, mainly driven by exports of services, was severely hit amid the epidemic with a substantial decline in total demand. In terms of external demand, exports of services dropped by . percent yearonyear, with exports of gaming services and other tourism services falling by . percent and . percent respectively. Moreover, exports of goods saw a decrease of . percent. The domestic demand slid further by . percent yearonyear, dragged down by the reduction in investment in fixed assets and private consumption expenditure. On the other hand, government final consumption expenditure rose by . percent. Imports of goods and services went down by . percent and . percent respectively, the DSEC report added. The implicit deflator of GDP, which measures the overall changes in prices, increased by . percent yearonyear in the first quarter. The private consumption decreased by . percent yearonyear amid the epidemic, as residents went out less and made fewer trips abroad while economic outlook remained uncertain. Household final consumption expenditure in the domestic market and abroad fell by . percent and . percent respectively. In response to the epidemic, the Macao SAR government scaled up the procurement of protective gear and medical supplies, rented hotels to be used as quarantine facilities and introduced economic relief measures, which drove up government final consumption expenditure by . percent. Investment in fixed assets declined further by . percent yearonyear, with construction investment and equipment investment dropping by . percent and . percent respectively. Meanwhile, public construction investment rose by . percent yearonyear on account of increased investment in infrastructure by the government. But equipment investment reduced by . percent.