Delta variant pushes US coronavirus cases to record
2021/8/14 7:32
Russias Federal Security Service, or FSB, detained a leading hypersonic technology specialist of the country in a high treason case on Thursday, media reported. FSB agents arrested the suspect, Alexander Kuranov, the yearold CEO and chief designer of the Scientific Research Enterprise of Hypersonic Systems, in Moscow. Kuranov oversaw work on a new hypersonic aircraft concept dubbed Ayaks that dates back to the Soviet era, according to his facilitys website. Hypersonic technology allows objects to travel much faster than the speed of sound. Russia has been developing a number of hypersonic weapons in recent years as its ties with the West have deteriorated to a postCold War low since . According to Russian state news agency TASS, Kuranov is a doctor of technical sciences and a professor in the control systems and technologies department at the St Petersburg Polytechnic University. He had been engaged in scientific technologies related to hydrocarbon fuel in aircraft. Kuranov is suspected of passing secret information to a foreigner about hypersonic technology research that he had worked on for a long time, an unnamed source was cited by the Interfax news agency as saying. Another source reportedly said Kuranov held meetings and worked with foreign nationals. Close ties The HSRI website states that the research institute holds annual international workshops on thermochemical processes in plasma aerodynamics in St Petersburg. The government daily Rossiiskaya Gazeta noted that Kuranov maintains close ties with American colleagues and conducts work on orders from many countries around the world. Moscows Lefortovo Court has issued a warrant to remand Kuranov in custody for two months on charges of state treason. The court released footage of Kuranov being led to the hearing in a tracksuit and hoodie pulled low over his face. He wore a face mask and his face could barely be seen. A lawyer for Kuranov could not be immediately reached for comment. Treason and espionage cases are usually held behind closed doors in Russia and case details seldom come to light because of their classified nature, according to Reuters. State treason is punishable by up to  years in jail in Russia. That sentence was handed down to an aviation lecturer from Moscow in April after he was found guilty of illegally exporting technology or technical information.