Abe lifts emergency Israel boosts aid
2020/5/29 22:30
ILE PHOTO A Culture ministry employee wearing a face mask stands in front of the Parthenon temple as the Acropolis archaeological site opens to visitors, following the easing of measures against the spread of the coronavirus disease COVID, in Athens, Greece, May , .  ATHENS  Greeces government released on Friday the first list of  countries allowed to send tourists to the country as of June  by flights to the airports of Athens and Thessaloniki. Sample tests for the novel coronavirus will be conducted to travelers from the  countries  that include Albania, Australia, Austria, Bulgaria, China, Croatia, Cyprus, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, Germany, Hungary, Israel, Japan, Latvia, Lebanon, Lithuania, Malta, Montenegro, New Zealand, Norway, North Macedonia, Romania, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia, South Korea and Switzerland. The list was drafted based on the epidemiological profile of the countries and European Union Aviation Safety Agency EASA announcements, following recommendations from Greek scientists, according to an emailed press statement issued by the Ministry of Tourism. Greece is moving forward to gradually and cautiously reopen its tourism industry, a vital sector of its economy, as the COVID outbreak drastically slows down. Following a full lockdown that lasted from March  till May , economic activities have restarted and all professionals in the tourism sector have received instructions on how to welcome travelers from now on so that everyone stays safe. The first list will be expanded by July , when international direct flights to all Greek airports will start, the ministry added, stressing that evaluation based on epidemiological data will be constant. Greece has so far registered , confirmed COVID cases nationwide since the first infection was diagnosed on Feb. , the Health Ministry announced on Thursday. COVID death toll in the country stands at , while in the past few weeks fewer cases and deaths have been reported.