Japan lifts state of emergency over coronavirus for Tokyo,  other prefectures
2020/5/29 20:38
A?team of experts from Hunan province provided training for local Chinese in Equatorial Guinea on the prevention and control the coronavirus on Tuesday. Photo provided to chinadaily.com.cn A team of medical experts from Hunan province trained Chinese people living in Equatorial Guinea on the prevention and control of the COVID outbreak on Tuesday. The team of  arrived at Malabo, the capital, on Monday, after completing their anticoronavirus tasks in Zimbabwe. They had been providing medical support and training there as well. Equatorial Guinea, a country with a population of . million in Central Africa, had reported , novel coronavirus cases as of Monday. The country confirmed its first imported case on March . The COVID incidence rate of Equatorial Guinea was . percent, Hunan officials said. Because of the increasing number of cases and limited coronavirus testing capacity in Equatorial Guinea, more than , overseas Chinese in the country were eager to receive guidance from the medical experts, the officials said. A?team of experts from Hunan province provided training for local Chinese in Equatorial Guinea on the prevention and control the coronavirus on Tuesday. Photo provided to chinadaily.com.cn The team described the experience of China in fighting the pandemic, as well as things their compatriots needed to pay attention to daily for prevention and control, including the proper wearing and disposal of face masks, hand hygiene and house ventilation. Anxiety among the Chinese was greatly eased after their questions about COVID were answered, the officials said. Over the next few days, the experts planned to communicate with local health departments and international organizations in Equatorial Guinea about strategies for battling the novel coronavirus. A?team of experts from Hunan province provided training for local Chinese in Equatorial Guinea on the prevention and control the coronavirus on Tuesday. Photo provided to chinadaily.com.cn