Shanghai metro to have full G coverage before CIIE
2020/5/29 11:16
? A Sri Lankan police officer wearing a protective face mask and a face shield controls the traffic after Islandwide day time curfew been lifted to restart the countrys economic activities amidst concerns about the spread of the coronavirus disease COVID, in Colombo, Sri Lanka, May , .  COLOMBO  Sri Lankan authorities said on Thursday the country will impose a nationwide curfew on selected days next week to avoid the unnecessary congregation of people after a sudden spike in the number of COVID cases reported in the island country. The spike in the number of COVID cases was reported mainly among those who were recently repatriated from overseas. According to a statement from the Presidents Media Division, a nationwide curfew will be imposed on May , June  and June  to avoid people from leaving their homes unnecessarily. Sri Lanka will commemorate a holiday on June  in view of the Poson Full Moon day, an important event in the Buddhist calendar. but due to the COVID pandemic this year, all devotees have been urged to stay at home and avoid visiting the temples. The statement said from June  to June , curfew will be imposed in all districts of the country from  pm to  am local time while from June  onwards curfew will be imposed from  pm to  am local time daily until further notice. The number of COVID cases rose to , by Thursday evening in the country after  new patients were reported during the day, the government information department said. Out of the ,  patients were reported from the Trincomalee quarantine center in the east among local nationals who were recently repatriated from Kuwait. Two patients were members from the Navy and the other  patients were reported from another quarantine center after recently being repatriated from Dubai. Out of the total , patients detected to date,  patients have completely recovered and been discharged, the government information department said. A total of  deaths have been reported in the country from the virus.