CIIE to feature public health, epidemic prevention area
2020/5/29 9:26
? New York City Mayor Bill De Blasio speaks to people as he gives away face masks for using on public spaces to prevent the spread of coronavirus disease COVID in the Queens borough of New York City, US, May , .  NEW YORK  New York City is expected to enter phase one of the reopening process in early June with up to , people back to work, Mayor Bill de Blasio confirmed on Thursday. At his daily briefing, the mayor said the city is now in a position to start opening things up step by step, phase by phase and he expected it to enter phase one in the first or second week of June. He estimated that a total of , to , people would be back to work in businesses of construction, manufacturing, wholesale trade and curbside pickup for certain types of stores. Businesses are required to limit capacity to  percent, and implement social distancing. Workers have to cover their faces when a sixfoot distance cannot be maintained, said de Blasio. Shared surfaces in a workplace must be cleaned regularly, and employees have to undergo a temperature check and fill out a questionnaire regarding their health conditions every morning, he noted. Were going to constantly make sure we are holding back this disease, and were going to make sure that we are putting the steps in place all the time to avoid it ever having a resurgence, he noted. Any business that attempts to open but should not yet be open during phase one will be told to shut down. If a business refuses to shut down, it could face a daily fine of , U.S. dollars, the mayor warned. According to stateestablished metrics for reopening, New York City still has not achieved goals in shares of total hospital beds and ICU beds available as of Thursday. It is the only region in New York state that remains under the PAUSE order. New York State Governor Andrew Cuomo held Thursdays briefing in Flatbush in New York Citys borough of Brooklyn, one of the hardesthit neighborhoods in the pandemic. The states testing results have shown neighborhoods with lowerincome workers and minorities have higher rates of COVID infections and the virus is still spreading there. Cuomo said the state would deliver  million masks to such neighborhoods within  hours. The state has already distributed more than  million masks across the city. He noted that he would sign an executive order mandating private businesses to deny entry to individuals who do not wear masks or facecoverings. You dont want to wear a mask, fine. But you dont then have a right to then go into that store if that store owner doesnt want you to, said Cuomo. The state reported  more deaths due to COVID on Thursday, the same as the number reported a day before, according to Cuomo. The governor confirmed , additional cases, bringing the statewide total to ,. The states death toll is approaching ,, according to the state tally.