Ancient wisdom helps in pandemic fight
2020/5/29 8:31
An yearold COVID patient is the first to be discharged from Leishenshan Hospital in Wuhan, Hubei province, on Feb . Photo by?Wang JingChina Daily Traditional culture playing a vital role The COVID pandemic has largely been brought under control in China, with many scholars believing that traditional culture has played an important role in shaping peoples response to it. In February, after a field investigation to Wuhan, Hubei province, by the World Health Organization, assistant directorgeneral Bruce Aylward said China had demonstrated phenomenal collective action and a cooperative spirit in fighting the virus. Behind every window in every skyscraper, there are people cooperating with this response, the Canadian epidemiologist said. Speaking at a recent edition of Vision China organized by China Daily and Tsinghua University, Aylward said Chinese peoples sense of social responsibility, which is embedded in the nations culture, and their experiences in fighting the severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS, outbreak in  are key elements of the countrys efforts to tackle the virus. David Gosset, founder of the EuropeChina Forum, said the cultural element is of the greatest importance in such a unified and rapid response. In the Chinese context, it can be said that traditional values inspired by Confucianism... helped China in its battle against COVID, Gosset said. Culture has been underestimated by commentators, while it has arguably played the most important role in shaping global reactions to events. Less visible than economic dynamics or even political structures or processes, culture is nevertheless what determines the behavior of individuals. Four factors in traditional philosophydayitong great unification, jiaguo tonggou family and state are the same, filial piety and tianxia all under the heavenhave influenced the countrys response to the pandemic, according to scholars. Mario Cavolo, a nonresident senior fellow at the Center for China and Globalization, said,In a further examination of the values at the root of achievements made in the fight against the pandemic, we find a historical source driving values, attitudes, and ultimately, our behavior. In Europe, for example, we find JudeoChristian ethics and religions, while some countries prefer a more postModern Era neoliberal set of values, he said. Gosset said,As a major global crisis, this pandemic has revealed many aspects of our modernity, and certainly that the world is not culturally uniform. It has indeed to be understood as the juxtaposition of several different cultural contexts. Chinese medical supplies arrive in Jakarta, Indonesia, on March .  Great unification The Confucian concept of dayitong means a common pursuit or respect for unity. Traceable to Confucius, Mencius and other philosophers, it was elaborated on by the philosopher Dong Zhongshu  BC. From the Han Dynasty  BCAD  onward, ancient China saw its most prosperous period, in which the benefits of Confucian civilization were spread to the rest of the world. Yu Zhiping, philosophy professor at Shanghai Jiao Tong University, said,This influence can still be felt in China today, which is helping the Chinese people win the coronavirus war. The dayitong concept, which still influences Chinese political culture, has made such an unprecedented mobilization of nationwide resources possible. Since a lockdown was enforced in Wuhan on Jan , unparalleled nationwide mobilization efforts have been made to combat the pandemic. Two days later, under President Xi Jinpings command, a central leading group on epidemic response, headed by Premier Li Keqiang, was established. On Jan , a central working group led by VicePremier Sun Chunlan was sent to oversee work in Hubei. On Feb , the National Health Commission launched an assistance plan, with  provinces providing support to cities in Hubei. According to official data, some , medical workers risked their lives to help the province. Two makeshift hospitalsHuoshenshan and Leishenshan, with a total capacity of , bedswere quickly built and started treating COVID patients in early February. Following the efforts made in Wuhan, most cities nationwide adopted strict measures to minimize the movement of people. Canadian political science professor Daniel A. Bell said that with the experience gained in fighting SARS, Chinese people know that when social order faces a severe threat, a strong, collective and efficient government is needed to take decisive action. Bell, dean of the School of Political Science and Public Administration at Shandong University and professor at Tsinghua University, made the comments in a recent interview with the website of the Communist Party of Chinas Central Commission for Discipline Inspection. A global crisis perception index released last month by social research agency Blackbox Research and consumer intelligence platform Toluna supports Bells assessment. It found that China had the highestrated leadership among  nations, with the country scoring  points out of . Conducted over  days from April , respondents were asked to rate their countries through four key indicators national political leadership, corporate leadership, community and media. Volunteers check deliveries of pork ordered online in Wuhan on March . Photo by?Yuan ZhengFor China Daily Families and nation In addition to the wholenation system, Bell highlighted the spirit of cooperation among Chinese people fighting the virus. He said that in traditional Chinese culture, citizens feel obligated to serve their families and the nation. Yu, from Shanghai Jiao Tong University, said this is the ideal of jiaguo tonggou, which means that family is a reduction of the state, and the state is an amplification of the family. In Chinese families, parents have the authority to make decisions and children should follow them, he said. In cultural terms, we take the country as our family, and when the government declared a war on the deadly pneumonia, millions of people from all walks of life, including civil servants, medics, community workers and volunteers, risked their lives to fight on the frontline. By inheriting ancient wisdom, Chinese have a hardwired willingness to sacrifice individual freedom and undergo hardships for the sake of common wellbeing, Yu said. To lock down a huge city like Wuhan, with a population of over  million people, is unprecedented. With the support of the public and its willingness to comply with government orders, China succeeded. Bell said that by sacrificing part of their freedom and privacy temporarily, peoplewith Confucian culture deep in their heartswere willing to comply with the governments quarantine measures, because they trusted the authorities to make the best decisions. When the Wuhan lockdown was imposed, all public transportation and business halted, with residents ordered to stay indoors to reduce transmission of the virus. The lockdown was lifted last month, with business in the city gradually returning to normal. The concerted response to the measures taken in Wuhan bear testimony to a Chinese proverb that states, When people are of one mind and heart, they can move Mount Tai. The mountain is a landmark of cultural and historical significance north of Taian, Shandong province. Bell said that in times of crisis, the collectivist orientation perspective has its benefits, compared with individual orientation. As China fought the virus, nongovernmental organizations and overseas Chinese donated urgently needed protective equipment, including face masks, surgical gowns and goggles, to support epidemic prevention and control measures. Tens of thousands of manufacturers nationwide quickly reconfigured production lines to make medical masks to meet surging demand at home and overseas. The countrys daily output of masks rose from  million on Jan  to  million on Feb . Meanwhile, technology companies, including Alibaba and Tencent, have created apps to help the public cope with confinement. Gosset, from the EuropeChina Forum, said, The effectiveness of Chinese governance, combined with a culture in which individuals put collective responsibility above all, can explain why China has been able to manage a highly dangerous situation. A Wuhan resident receives a food delivery during the lockdown. Photo by?Hu DongdongFor China Daily Filial piety As the outbreak in China developed into a global pandemic, many countries encouraged the elderly and those with severe medical conditions to stay at home, as they faced a higher risk of contracting COVID. With hospitals around the world unable to cope with a surge in the number of patients needing treatment for the disease, debate arose over whether medics should give priority to younger patients. However, Bell said that in Chinaa country deeply influenced by Confucianism, with filial piety its core virtuestrong measures have been taken to protect seniors from the disease. Filial piety, or xiao, means to respect, obey and care for the elderly, highlighted in ancient and authoritative classics such as The Analects of Confucius and The Classic of Filial Piety Xiaojing, along with works by Mencius. According to a frequently quoted saying by Mencius,Treat all elders as you would respect your own love all children as you would love your own. Tang Bei, a professor specializing in global health governance at Shanghai International Studies University, said, This virtue has been a constant theme in Chinas COVID response, which includes allout efforts to provide testing and treatment for all those in need, no matter whether they are young or old. In the fight against the contagion, the Chinese leadership has continued to emphasize that peoples lives, safety and health are the top priorities. Tang said, This is peopleorientation, an important ethical requirement in the public health field, especially in making epidemic prevention and control policy. Chinas response to the pandemic is largely shaped by its ancient philosophy of ethics, which has greatly increased peoples trust in the government, the professor said. Tang quoted from the Confucian classic The Book of Documents, or Shangshu, which states, The people are the root of a country when the root is firm, the country is tranquil. As of April , the average total cost of treating a hospital patient with COVID was , yuan ,. For severe cases, the average minimum cost was , yuan, with the overall charges for treating some critical cases reaching more than  million yuan, according to the National Health Commission. All such expenses are covered by the countrys healthcare insurance system and government budget. Official data show that as of last month, Wuhan had registered more than , patients with the virusabout , of them age  or older. The oldest patient who recovered is . Workers transfer medical supplies from China in Cairo, Egypt, on May , .  Global community While taking good care of its citizens at home, China has offered help to nations severely affected by the pandemic. The sudden emergence of the virus has served to remind the world that, in the era of globalization, all countries interests are closely interconnected and society has a shared future. The concept of a shared future is similar to the notion of tianxia all under the heaven, which embodies a worldwide public perspective rooted in Confucian moral and political thinking. In Liji The Book of Rites, translated by the Scottish Sinologist James Legge, Confucius states, When the grand course was pursued, a public common spirit ruled all under the heaven. Cavolo, from the Center for China and Globalization, has lived in China for two decades and witnessed the countrys fight against the pandemic in Shenyang, capital of Liaoning province. The ItalianAmerican, who remains deeply concerned for his family and relatives in the United States, said In essence, we are all connected. We are all part of the same glorious community, and each individually responsible for what we do to shape that community. This community transcends ethnicity or sovereign borders, and in this sense, people are experiencing a unifying challenge as they face the pandemic, he said. The Confucian vision of an ideal society envisioned a world characterized by harmony and cooperation, which President Xi has mentioned several times. In , Xi took the podium at the UN to speak of a community with a shared future for mankind. He elaborated on this later, saying that an ideal world would be one that is safe, prosperous, open, orderly and inclusive. On May , Xi announced at the virtual opening of the rd session of the World Health Assembly that China would provide  billion over two years to help with the COVID response and with economic and social development in countries affected by the virus, especially developing nations. Xi also said China is ready to work with the international community to bolster support for the hardesthit countries. Igor Shatrov, deputy director of Russias National Institute for the Development of Modern Ideology, told Xinhua News Agency the pandemic is a serious test in which humanity must realize that we live in a single world and have a common destiny, so it should unite in the face of a global threat.