Latest on the novel coronavirus outbreak
2020/5/29 0:00
The eastern coastal city of Qingdao, Shandong province, is growing into a global hub of industrial internet. The city is building on a sound industrial foundation, according to local officials. The industrial internet is regarded by insiders as the latest generation of the internet and a crucial cornerstone of the fourth industrial revolution, which is characterized by a fusion of technologies that are blurring the lines between the physical, digital and biological spheres. The industrial internet gathers all kinds of enterprises on one online platform and enables them to interact with each other on matters including human resources, capital, technology and market trends to organize the production and operation of enterprises at a lower cost. As a renowned manufacturing city in China, Qingdao is the birthplace of a raft of manufacturing companies, including the countrys leading home appliance makers Haier and Hisense, worldrenowned brewery Tsingtao and toptier tiremaker Doublestar. Promoting the transformation and upgrading of Qingdaos manufacturing industry and opening a new chapter of the citys economic growth have been the farreaching goals of Qingdao for years, according to the local government. Taking advantage of the industrial internet, Qingdao aims to restructure its industries as well as drive the development of its emerging industries such as artificial intelligence, big data and chips. The city hopes to forge new economic growth drivers that way and achieve highquality development. To develop the industrial internet industry and build a global industrial internet hub is a great opportunity for Qingdao, said Meng Fanli, mayor of the city, at this years two sessions. He said by  Qingdao will strive to build a global industrial internet hub with complete development resources, integrated application scenarios and an extended industrial chain. In developing the industrial internet, Qingdao has the advantages of modern industrial systems, a sound network foundation and experience in industrial internet projects, Meng added. Powerful platform COSMOPlat, an industrial internet platform developed by Haier, is a backbone of Qingdaos efforts to build a global industrial internet hub. With  million users, COSMOPlat has developed into one of the top three industrial internet platforms in the world, alongside similar platforms developed by General Electric of the United States and Siemens of Germany, according to officials in Qingdao. COSMOPlat ranked first among Chinas crossindustry and crosssector industrial internet platforms in , according to the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology. During the outbreak of the novel coronavirus, COSMOPlat has demonstrated the value of an industrial internet platform. At the beginning, medical supplies for the prevention and control of the virus were running out. To cope with the problem, COSMOPlat took immediate action and within two days developed an online informationsharing platform for COVID medical supplies. The platform helped medicalresource producers in Changyuan county, Henan province, to find materials and machines for producing masks. Integrating its business resources covering manufacturing equipment, raw materials, intelligent procurement and smart medical services, the platform helped Shanxi build its first fully automatic medical mask production line. It also helped the province find raw materials for producing masks, including the meltblown fabric and nonwoven fabric. In addition, COSMOPlat provides  solutions to epidemic prevention and control aimed at the resumption of business activities. The solutions cover online offices, online education and epidemic data collection and sharing. Utilizing the integrated development of the manufacturing industry and the internet, Qingdao has made achievements in developing datadriven manufacturing. Some of its enterprises have established industrial internet production models such as intelligent interconnected factories, mass customertailored production and remote operations. New business models Doublestar created a smart tire factory, which realizes intelligent and customized production and attempts to explore new business models in the tire industry by improving intelligent sales and services. Qingdao Tgood Electric, Chinas largest charging pole operator, is helping build an intelligent charging network in the city. The network allows intelligent charging scheduling and intelligent vehicle condition checks, and can provide decisionmaking reference for new energy vehicle makers with its data analyses. A number of nationallevel research institutions have set up their branches in Qingdao, adding fuel to the citys construction of a global industrial internet hub. The research institutions include the China Center for Information Industry Development, the China Academy of Information and Communications Technology and the China Academy of Industrial Internet. Looking ahead, Qingdao plans to engage more enterprises, capital, professionals and technologies in improving its development of the industrial internet. Platform is the core of industrial internet development, and building platforms will be the priority of Qingdaos future development, city officials said. To help COSMOPlat develop into a worldleading industrial internet platform, Qingdao is scheduled to mobilize more small and mediumsized enterprises to use the cloud platform, and encourage industrial enterprises above designated scalewith an annual sales revenue surpassing  million yuan . millionto share their business resources and expertise such as research and development, manufacturing and operation management on the platform. With the citys competitive industries in mind, including clothing, home appliances, tires, new energy vehicles, machinery and equipment manufacturing and the highend chemical industry, Qingdao will build a raft of targeted industrial internet platforms in an attempt to enhance the overall competitiveness of the citys manufacturing industry. Meanwhile, the city will pay attention to the development of industrial internet application scenarios. The  Global Venture Capital Online Conference was held in Qingdao on May . The first  application scenarios of industrial internet were showcased at the event, which covered  sectors including intelligent software, industrial big data and system integration. A total of , application scenarios will be released in the future, according to the city government. An industrial internet development alliance was launched at the conference. Composed of bigname venture capital companies at home and abroad, representative enterprises in the industrial internet industry and industrial internet platforms, the alliance aims to attract more capital and highlevel professionals and further promote technological innovation. According to the threeyear development plan for industrial internet released by the Qingdao city government at the end of April, the city will establish , G base stations by . It will also promote more than , industrial enterprises to complete the transformation toward digitalization, connectivity and intelligence while building a worldleading and  nationally renowned industrial internet platforms. zhangdandanchinadaily.com.cn ? The coastal city of Qingdao plans to use its manufacturing and IT strengths to grow itself into one of the global hubs of industrial internet. CHINA DAILY ? ? Tire manufacturer Sailun Group is one of companies in Qingdao that uses the latest intelligent technologies to upgrade its production. CHINA DAILY ? ? Haier shows its smart manufacturing technologies during a show in Qingdao. CHINA DAILY ? ?