US consumer sentiment falls to decade low amid Delta variant concerns
2021/8/13 11:28
People wear masks around Times Square, as cases of the infectious coronavirus Delta variant continue to rise in New York, July , .  For the first time in US history, the country experienced a decline in its white population, and the nations continued to grow more rapidly in the South and Southwest, according to data from the  US Census released Thursday. While the white population remains the largest race or ethnic group in the country, the number of people identifying as white alone fell by . percent over the last  years, according to the first detailed results of the census. The nonHispanic white population dropped . percent between  and , a decline that puts that groups share of the total US population below  percent. The number of people who identify as more than one race or ethnicity grew at the fastest rate of any group, partly due to changes that captured more detailed responses. These changes reveal that the US population is much more multiracial, and more racially and ethnically diverse, than what we measured in the past, said Nicholas Jones, the director of race, ethnicity, research and outreach for the Census Bureaus Population Division. He cautioned that some of the changes can be attributed to improvements to the survey. The white, nonHispanic population is still the largest racial group in the US. The drop in the white population was driven in part by aging and a sharp drop in the birthrate. The new data show that Hispanics accounted for about half the countrys growth over the past decade, up by about  percent. The Asian population grew faster than expected  up by about  percent, an increase that made up nearly a fifth of the countrys total. Nearly  in  Americans now identify themselves as either Hispanic or Asian. The black population grew by  percent, an increase that represented about a tenth of the countrys growth. Americans who identified as nonHispanic and more than one race rose the fastest, jumping to . million from  million. The nations population grew just . percent during the decade, the second slowest on record for a decennial census. Only the s  the era of the Great Depression  recorded slower growth. Slightly more than half  . percent  of the total US population growth in the latest period came from increases among Hispanic or Latino residents, the Census Bureau said. The census shows there was a dramatic increase in the number of people who identify as multiracial, defined as two or more races. In , the census reported  million people as multiracial. That number rose to . million people in , a  percent increase. One third of Hispanics reported being more than one race, up from just  percent in . That means that Hispanics are now nearly twice as likely to identify as multiracial than as white, Census officials said. Hispanic origin is counted as an ethnicity and is a distinct category from race. But Hispanics can also check race boxes. The top five largest cities in the country are now New York, Los Angeles, Chicago, Houston and Phoenix. Philadelphia is now the sixthlargest city, bumped from fifth by Phoenix, which was the fastest growing of the top  largest cities. The Arizona citys population grew from . million people in  to . million in , an increase of . percent, according to the Census Bureau. The Villages, a retirement community in Florida, is the fastestgrowing metropolitan area in the country. And McKenzie County, North Dakota, was the fastestgrowing county over the past decade. Its population more than doubled. Statistics from the decennial census are used to give hundreds of billions of dollars annually in federal funding and for everything from drawing school district boundaries to measuring the diversity of police forces and corporate boards.