WHO says Americas seen as new epicenter of COVID pandemic
2020/5/28 0:00
BRASILIA, BrazilThe Americas have emerged as the new epicenter of the coronavirus pandemic, the World Health Organization said on Tuesday, while keeping a close eye on the US reopening. Now is not the time for countries to ease restrictions, said Carissa Etienne, WHO regional director for the Americas and head of the Pan American Health Organization, or PAHO. The Americas have registered more than . million cases of the novel coronavirus and more than , deaths from the resulting COVID respiratory disease. By Tuesday, the US had an overall death toll of ,, and the number of infections stood at more than . million, the largest in the world. Following is Brazil, which had reported , infections and , deaths. The country on Tuesday reported the highest daily COVID death toll in the world at ,, the fifth straight day the country has topped the list. Some PAHO directors warned that there are very tough weeks ahead for the region, and Brazil has a long way to go before it will see the pandemic end. Meanwhile, a study by University of Washington warned that Brazils total death toll could climb fivefold to , by early August. The model projections also see deaths rising to nearly , in Peru, , in Chile, , in Mexico, , in Ecuador, , in Argentina and to , in Colombia by August. In Panama, the government said on Tuesday that in June it will start to relax some measures imposed to curb the spread of the virus, permitting sectors such as construction, nonmetallic mining and pharmaceuticals to resume operations. As part of the second stage of reopening the economy, the textile, electronics and electricity sectors will also be able to resume operations, Commerce Minister Ramon Martinez said. The curfew will also be relaxed, and places of worship, parks and sporting facilities may reopen at up to  percent of capacity, he said. In the US, the White House said on Tuesday that President Donald Trump remains committed to holding a Fourth of July celebration in the nations capital even as Democratic lawmakers from the region warn that the area will not be ready to hold a major event. Safety concerns White House spokesman Judd Deere reiterated that Trump wants to hold an Independence Day celebration after members of Congress wrote on Tuesday to Defense Secretary Mark Esper and Interior Secretary David Bernhardt to raise their concerns about the safety of such an event. The Washington DCarea members in their letter wrote that such an event would needlessly risk the health and safety of thousands of Americans. DC Mayor Muriel Bowser said on Tuesday that the city wont be issuing any permits for large gatherings in the immediate future. The capital is still under a stayhome order, with plans to shift to Phase One of its reopening this upcoming weekend. Separately, the New York Stock Exchange partially reopened its iconic trading floor after a twomonth closure due to the pandemic. But safety measures such as wearing masks and physical distancing are required in the exchange. People entering the building must have their temperature taken and fill in a questionnaire regarding their health condition. The reopening of the trading floor came as infections in New York continued to trend down. In another development, some military bases will be able to begin bringing back personnel and take the first major step toward a return to normal operations this week, the Pentagon said on Tuesday. The announcement came as the Pentagon laid out detailed plans that will govern how the department and its forces around the world will gradually and systematically begin to lift restrictions put in place due to the coronavirus pandemic. Defense officials did not say how many bases were involved or where they were, but said the locations would be made public. Pentagon officials also on Tuesday released updated guidelines for military travel and deployments. The new rules lift mandatory dates banning travel, and now allow commanders to make decisions based on local conditions. The guidelines lay out requirements for day isolation periods when moves occur. Xinhua  Agencies New York Governor Andrew Cuomo bumps elbows with New York Stock Exchange President Stacey Cunningham at an opening bellringing ceremony at the NYSE on Tuesday. XINHUA