France GDP likely to contract by  in Q, says national statistics bureau
2020/5/27 20:20
An employee wearing a protective face mask works at a factory of manufacturer Valeo, during a visit of French President Emmanuel Macron as part of the launch of a plan to rescue the French car industry, in Etaples near Le Touquet, France, May , .  PARIS  Frances economy is likely to contract by  percent in the second quarter Q this year, deepening a recession in the eurozones secondlargest power where the coronavirus crisis had prompted the worst postwar economic turmoil, national statistics institute INSEE said on Wednesday. INSEE added that the economy could contract  percent for the whole year of  if activities return to the precrisis level by July. However, such a rapid return to normal seems unrealistic, it noted. Despite the massive monetary and budgetary support, there are many reasons for the economy not to return to normal before long months. The French economy contracted by . percent in the first quarter this year. Between March  and May , the country was in lockdown to stem the spread of the coronavirus. Now in its third week of deconfinement, France saw its economic activities resuming cautiously but clearly in major sectors, including industry, construction and services, according to INSEE. As a result, France could limit loss in its economic activities in May to  percent below the normal level, instead of  percent as INSEE had estimated earlier this month. In a separate statement, INSEE said consumers confidence continued to deteriorate in May but at a slower pace. The index fell by two points to , after dropping by  points in April. Households opinion balance about the future standard of living remained at minus , the lowest level ever since the beginning of the survey, while fears about the unemployment trend have sharply increased by  points, reaching the highest level since June , it added. Speaking to Radio Classique, Economy and Finance Minister Bruno Le Maire confirmed that the recovery is real but gradual. The shutdown of economic activities was severe. We must expect very degraded recession figures for  in France, he said. The violence of the economic crisis calls for a massive, frank and immediate European response.