S. Korea puts no mask, no ride policy into effect
2020/5/27 10:11
? People, wearing protective face masks following an outbreak of the coronavirus disease COVID, stand at a bus stop in Daegu, South Korea, March , .  SEOULSouth Korea began implementing its no mask, no ride policy on buses and taxis on Tuesday to help prevent the spread of COVID in public transportation. As a result, taxi and bus drivers can limit or refuse passengers who do not wear face masks. Drivers will be required to wear masks when passengers are on board. The policy was devised amid an emerging worry about infections on public transportation. As of Sunday, nine bus drivers and  taxi drivers had been confirmed positive for COVID. Meanwhile, subway passengers are strongly advised to wear face masks while on board. South Korea had reported a total of , cases and  deaths as of Tuesday. Meanwhile, A curfew in Colombo and the outskirts of Gampaha, imposed on March , has been relaxed. A statement from the Presidents Office on Monday said that curfew would be effective on Tuesday in all districts of the country, including Colombo, for a shorter period of time daily, from  pm to  am, as there had been no new patients detected among the public within the past two weeks. Sri Lanka has reported more than , cases, with  deaths. Biggest jump Separately, for a seventh consecutive day, India reported its biggest jump in coronavirus cases. The countrys health ministry on Tuesday reported , new infections, an increase of , from the day before, and , deaths. In the Middle East, many countries announced the further easing of the precautions against the novel coronavirus, as Eid alFitr, a festival marking the end of the holy month of Ramadan, is being observed across the region. In a related development, Saudi Arabia will end its nationwide coronavirus curfew from June , except in the holy city of Mecca, the interior ministry said on Tuesday, after more than two months of stringent curbs. Prayers will also be allowed to resume in all mosques outside Mecca from Sunday, the ministry said in a series of measures announced by the official Saudi Press Agency. Saudi Arabia has reported around , infections and  deaths, health authorities said. In Bangladesh, authorities asked people to avoid mass prayers in open fields, which draw tens of thousands normally. Devotees could join prayers at mosques by maintaining safe distances. The country had reported , cases with  deaths by Tuesday. Xinhua  Agencies