Foshan has ideas for attracting investors
2020/5/27 9:56
The city of Foshan. Photo provided to China Daily Zhu Wei, deputy Party chief and mayor of Foshan, Guangdong province, said his government would continue to make efforts to reduce production costs in the manufacturing industry to lure investors and promote economic development in the months and years ahead. Foshan, located  kilometers southwest of Guangzhou, would integrate into the global highend manufacturing supply chain through further improvements in its investment and business climate to attract both domestic and offshore investment and projects, said Zhu, who is also a deputy to the th National Peoples Congress. Foshan, a major production base in the country, had a GDP of more than  trillion yuan . billion in , placing it th among major cities on the Chinese mainland. Its manufacturing industry represented about  percent of citys total GDP last year, Zhu told media on Sunday. Its a new beginning for Foshan, he said. Zhu said that Foshan expects to attract at least  projects before years end to fortify its manufacturing position, with each project securing an investment of more than  billion yuan. Priority will be given to the development of G, artificial intelligence, big data, industrial internet, internet of things and related new infrastructure industries and projects, Zhu said. Zhu also promised to further expand cooperation with Hong Kong and Macao special administrative regions and other cities in the Pearl River Delta to accelerate the development of the citys finance, communication, culture, tourism, medical sciences and service industries in the years ahead. The city, known as the hometown of kungfu legend Bruce Lee, produced more than  million face masks, , protective suits and , forehead thermometers daily when the country was hit by COVID. In addition to supporting the countrys to fight against the pandemic, Foshan has exported large amounts of antiepidemic materials and products abroad, he added.