Home appliance queen urges greater innovation
2020/5/27 9:42
Dong Mingzhu, the chairwoman and president of Gree Electric Appliances. Photo provided to China Daily Known as Chinas home appliances queen, Dong Mingzhu, the chairwoman and president of Gree Electric Appliances, is always ready to accept new challenges. The yearold entrepreneur jumped on the livestreaming bandwagon recently when the companys offline sales were severely hampered by the COVID outbreak. On May , she made huge sales of  million yuan . million while livestreaming on the Chinese ecommerce giant JD. Dong, also a deputy to the th National Peoples Congress, tried her first livestream on April  on the online video platform Douyin. However, her debut was not a success, due mainly to slow internet and her being unfamiliar with the format. She made only , yuan in sales that night. Dong learned from her failure, and on May  she sold over  million yuan worth of home appliances during a threehour livestream on another short video platform, Kuaishou. Sales surpassed  million yuan in the first  minutes, as  million people watched Dongs livestream. Her top sellers were air conditioners and purifiers with disinfecting functions. We have more than , offline distributors, and I hope they can also combine online and offline sales channels after I explored this method for them, Dong said, adding that livestreaming was a new sales model that was a winwin for brands, manufacturers and consumers. Ecommerce through livestreaming has become a powerful sales channel for traditional industries as more consumers switch to online shopping. Dong said she is planning to open a Dong Mingzhu livestreaming channel and will continue her broadcasts to bolster the brands online presence. Grees revenue in the first quarter of this year was  billion yuan under its target due to the fallout from the pandemic, she said. However, Dong said there would be no layoffs of employees and added the company would go ahead with plans to recruit , university graduates. Dubbed Chinas Iron Lady in business circles, Dong first joined Gree in  as a saleswoman after quitting her administrative job at a government research institute in Nanjing, Jiangsu province. She was promoted to sales director in  due to her outstanding sales performances. In May , she was appointed chairwomen. Dongs entrepreneurial skills have won her many business leadership awards. In , she was recognized as one of the bestperforming CEOs in the world by Harvard Business Review, while Fortune magazine has put her on its  most powerful women list several times. Chinas manufacturing industry should be more aware of the importance of innovation when facing the unexpected challenges brought by the COVID pandemic, Dong said. More efforts should be made to strengthen the dominant position of enterprises in scientific and technological innovation. She said with the arrival of the G era, more popular and cuttingedge technologies will be created and integrated into consumers needs. Therefore, the priority for manufacturing enterprises at the moment should be their ability to innovate. Dong said her company had ramped up efforts in intelligent manufacturing by setting up unmanned factories and using industrial robots in a variety of production cycles. Dong said Gree will invest  billion yuan to make highend medical equipment and tap into the healthcare industry. With an investment of  million yuan, Zhuhai Gejian Medical Science  Technology, a subsidiary of Gree, was established on Feb  to produce masks, thermometers and personnel protective equipment.