Firms churn out medical supplies for future safety
2020/5/27 0:00
Beijing will continue managing production lines and raw materials related to medical protection products, local officials said. At the beginning of the novel coronavirus outbreak, the shortage of medical materials in Beijing gave us a warning that materials and facilities must be prepared, said Lu Yan, vicemayor of the city, at a news conference earlier this month. The capital will stockpile reserves, identify emergency suppliers and ensure a certain scale of production capacity, Lu said. During the prevention and control of the virus, China set up a system to allocate medical supplies to the capital. By April , it had delivered  million face masks to Beijing. To solve the materials shortage, Beijing directed companies to produce protective products. Collectively, they are now able to produce  million face masks and , protective suits a day. The products not only satisfy the demands of Beijing, but have been sent to other provinces and even exported abroad. Beijing will strengthen government procurement support and cooperation with companies in materials supply, Lu said. He added that the city will establish a coordinated system of emergency material production in the BeijingTianjinHebei region. It will also set up a major pandemic prevention and control materials distribution system and plan, in an effort to ensure the accurate deployment and maximum efficiency of materials. According to Pang Jiangqian, deputy director of the Beijing Bureau of Statistics, necessities and protective materials provided have met the needs of local residents during the pandemic period. In the first quarter of this year, the companies each with an annual income of more than  billion yuan . billion have collectively produced  million face masks. The production of packaged water and synthetic detergent rose . percent and . percent yearonyear respectively. During the same period, retail sales in supermarkets increased . percent yearonyear with growth up . percent. The sales of grain, oil and food commodities rose . percent yearonyear. ?