Revitalization of Hubei
2020/5/26 16:39
President Xi Jinping, also general secretary of the Communist Party of China Central Committee and chairman of the Central Military Commission, joins a deliberation with deputies from Hubei Province at the third session of the th National Peoples Congress in Beijing, capital of China, May , .  As the two sessions continue, President Xi Jinping specially joined a group discussion with national lawmakers from Central Chinas Hubei province Sunday afternoon, showing his great care for the COVIDhit province and its resumption of production. After hearing the remarks of five deputies with the Hubei panel to the National Peoples Congress, the national legislature, Xi commended the vital contributions and enormous sacrifices made by the people in Hubei and its capital city Wuhan in fighting COVID, and expressed his sincere appreciation. As the province hardest hit by the virus and with the longest span of restrictions, Hubei faces major difficulties in reviving its economy, Xi said, urging the province to accelerate production resumption while going all out to implement regular epidemic prevention and control. What Xi says? ?Wuhan is worthy of being called a heroic city, and the people in Hubei and its capital, Wuhan, are heroic. ?The people in Hubei and its capital, Wuhan, have made great contributions in the fight against COVID.  The most imperative task for Hubei is to spare no efforts to coordinate COVID prevention and control as well as economic and social development.  Central authorities and Stateowned enterprises should increase supportive measures for Hubei and implement those measures as soon as possible. ?Hubei should implement targeted policies for key industrial chains, leading enterprises and major investment projects, work hard to solve various difficult problems in production resumption, and help companies, especially micro, small and mediumsized enterprises solve their practical difficulties. Views from NPC deputies Luo Jie, deputy to the th National Peoples Congress, is interviewed via video link ahead of the meeting of the third session of the th NPC in Beijing, capital of China, on May , .  Xi inspires confidence in Hubei residents after ordeal President Xi Jinpings remarks during a panel discussion of National Peoples Congress deputies from Hubei province have fully approved Hubei peoples efforts in containing the novel coronavirus outbreak, and his words will boost their confidence to recover from COVID, NPC deputies from Hubei said on Sunday. Two medical professionals form a heart with their hands at Wuhan Fangcang makeshift hospital on Valentines Day. The hospital is a temporary infirmary designated to treat people infected with the novel coronavirus. Photo by GAO XIANGFOR CHINA DAILY Xi moved by story of medical workers devotion Luo Jie, a National Peoples Congress deputy from Hubei province, said he was surprised and moved to learn that the story he shared about how local medics went to great lengths to help every COVID patient left a deep impression on President Xi Jinping. It goes to show how important peoples lives are in the eyes of Xi, he said. Chen Huayuan. Hospitals built in  days were tonic for morale Building the Huoshenshan Hospital in Wuhan, Hubei province, in  days and fitting it with the utilities and medical equipment needed to treat COVID patients seemed like mission impossible at the time. However, when the building materials flooded in, the workers arrived, and the project received the full backing of the Chinese people, Chen Huayuan, head of the construction team, knew the goal could be achieved. It was a project like no other, said Chen, a National Peoples Congress deputy from Hubei. Yan Zhi. Entrepreneur helped obtain more masks for Wuhan Yan Zhi, an entrepreneur from Hubei province, said he immediately realized that the novel coronavirus outbreak in the provinces capital of Wuhan was getting worse after he received three phone calls on Jan   Spring Festival eve  asking him if he could get hold of epidemic control supplies. ?