Social distancing impossible on London commute as people go back to work amid eased lockdown
2020/5/26 16:25
A number of people in England who cannot work from home returned to their workplaces on Wednesday, as the government has begun to ease lockdown restrictions. ? A commuter wearing a mask sits on a train at London Liverpool Street Station, following the outbreak of the coronavirus disease COVID, London, Britain, May , .  Although people have been urged to avoid using public transport if possible, some commuters have said buses and trains are too busy to observe social distancing rules, as reported by the BBC. One commuter said most people were not wearing masks, leaving him fearing a second wave of infection. As reported in the Guardian, photographs of packed London Underground trains on Wednesday show how fraught with danger, Boris Johnsons return to work message is, a union has said. Tube workers said it was a complete shambles when part of the Victoria Line was suspended due to a passenger collapsing. Social distancing during the peak was a joke. During the suspension our carriages were heaving. It will get worse, said one worker. RMT warned this would happen and we were ignored. We are monitoring the situation across services this morning and will discuss any appropriate action with our local reps, Cash added. Some buses in the capital were also reported to be busier than normal following the prime ministers message that people should return to work if possible from Wednesday. Any notion of selfdistancing on buses or tubes is going to be impossible, said Drew Aspland, cited in the BBC. The yearold walked to work in central London from Bethnal Green after seeing his bus back to prelockdown levels of passengers. Transport for London said on Monday that it would have to reduce passenger numbers to  of normal levels if it were to achieve physical distancing of two metres. London tubes today  people returning to work! No social distance, so no protection from contagious often deadly COVID! Id expect an increase in cases  mortalities an inevitability of this happening. Yes the economy needs recovering but people needed for it to do so! On Monday afternoon, the UK government released a page document that outlines the planned timetable for lifting national Covid restrictions. The governments indicative roadmap has three steps. The first step of this plan is to actively encourage people who cannot work from home to return to work from this Wednesday. The second step, which will potentially begin from  June will see some schools and businesses begin to reopen. Some sporting and cultural events will be allowed to take place behind closed doors. The third step which will start no earlier than  July will see some remaining businesses including hairdressers, cinemas and pubs reopen. At the time of publication, the number of reported COVID deaths in the UK is ,.