Questions raised by Italian study over origins
2021/8/13 7:02
A man wearing a mask walks in the Duomo square in Milan, Italy, March , .  A different version of the COVID virus may have been circulating in Lombardy, northern Italy, as early as late summer , a new study shows, suggesting that a wider geographical area and a broader time span should be considered when investigating the origins of the virus. Researchers from the University of Milan and the Italian National Institute of Health examined  throat swabs and urine samples from  patients with measleslike skin rashes. A total of  patients tested positive for SARSCoV, according to a study published last week on the preprint server operated by the medical journal, The Lancet. The paper is still awaiting peerreview. None of the positive patients reported any history of travel in the two weeks before the onset of rash. The very first sample that tested positive for the genetic material of SARSCoV was a urine sample collected as early as Sept , , from an monthold child whose serum also tested positive for antibodies against the virus. Our study provides strong evidence that SARSCoV was already circulating in Northern Italy by late summer of  and shows a clear association between measleslike cutaneous manifestations and SARSCoV,  the researchers said. However, the current evidence of infection is too weak to definitively diagnose these patients as being sickened by the virus, the scientists said. Contamination and false positives for nucleic acid tests of COVID were reported in similar retrospective studies done in other countries. Another finding in the Italian report is that scientists have detected multiple variants of the novel coronavirus circulating during the prepandemic period. These results confirm recent computational findings that several SARSCoV lineages had been spreading worldwide at least for several weeks before the first reported COVID cases, the paper said. Based on the examined evidence, they found that some of the coronavirus mutations first reported in January  were already present in strains from Northern Italy in October , suggesting that a lineage of the virus substantially different from the strain that first emerged in Wuhan, Hubei province, in December  was already circulating in the region. This may push back the predicted date of the progenitor SARSCoV to between late June  and late August , the study said. Although it is possible that viruses carrying the mutations were imported into Europe, it is also conceivable that these mutations have evolved in parallel outside China as the virus was circulating in other geographical areas, as also already previously hypothesized, the study said. A Beijingbased epidemiologist, who requested anonymity, said the study supports the hypothesis that SARSCoV may have originated and evolved in different parts of the world before the first reported outbreak occurred in Wuhan. It gives a reason for scientists around the world to check their labs freezers, blood banks and other sample stores for traces of SARSCoV and its relatives, the expert said, adding such retrospective studies have yielded surprising discoveries on coronavirus. Such is the case of HCoVHKU, a humaninfecting coronavirus that was first reported in , only to be later found in samples collected in Brazil in . The journal Nature reported in November that scientists have discovered relatives of the COVID virus in Cambodias Shamels horseshoe bats captured in , as well as in frozen bat droppings from Japanese horseshoe bats collected in . These findings suggest that relatives of SARSCoV may be common in horseshoe bats, even outside of China. The expert said one of the biggest questions surrounding the multipleorigin hypothesis is that if the virus has been circulating in other parts of the world, why wasnt there an increase of pneumonialike diseases in those regions prior to the Wuhan outbreak? One answer is that early strains of SARSCoV may not have been as transmissible among humans as some later mutated variants. The virus may have been attempting to spill over from nature into the human population for years, if not decades, and after numerous trials and errors, it finally accumulated the right traits and suddenly became highly successful at infecting humans, the expert said. To know that a different version of the virus was already circulating in Northern Italy can substantiate this proposed explanation, the expert said. There are still so many questions surrounding the origin of the SARSCoV, and I hope more scientists from other countries can meticulously and bravely reexamine their collected samples and contribute to finding the answers.