New Zealand joins global search for COVID vaccine
2020/5/26 13:37
? Brian Green, , wears a mask as he wheels his supermarket shopping cart to his car outside PaknSave supermarket amid the spread of the coronavirus disease COVID in Christchurch, New Zealand, March , .  WELLINGTON  The New Zealand government announced a COVID vaccine strategy on Tuesday, which will enable New Zealand scientists to contribute to global research efforts and explore the potential of vaccine manufacturing capability in New Zealand. The COVID vaccine strategy aims to secure a vaccine  safe, effective and in sufficient quantities  at the earliest possible time. It will ensure that New Zealand has detailed knowledge of key international research efforts and an ability to assess promising vaccine candidates as they emerge, Deputy Prime Minister and Foreign Minister Winston Peters said in a statement. The COVID vaccine strategy outlines how New Zealand will contribute to global efforts by ramping up our own capability, working with the international community and supporting our Pacific neighbors in the deployment of a vaccine once it becomes available, Peters said. Research, Science and Innovation Minister Megan Woods said New Zealand has quality researchers and a high performing research, science and innovation sector with a long history of working with colleagues across the globe to tackle complex global problems. Its vital that we contribute to international research efforts as well as ramp up our own research and manufacturing capability, Woods said. Health Minister David Clark said the development of a safe and effective vaccine is a crucial tool in the control of COVID worldwide and a global effort is well underway to develop and test various vaccine candidates. The COVID vaccine strategy will ensure that all stops are pulled out in New Zealand to advance discovery, development, testing and supply of a COVID vaccine, the statement said. The government has allocated  million New Zealand dollars . million to the COVID vaccine strategy. New Zealand will also advocate internationally for the equitable distribution of a COVID vaccine, with a particular focus on ensuring the Pacific Island countries can access it when needed, it said.