Major Mideast states announce further ease of anticoronavirus precautions
2020/5/26 10:05
Iranians wear protective face masks against the risk of coronavirus contagion as they ride in the metro, in Tehran, Iran, May , .  CAIRO  Most of the major Middle East countries on Monday announced the further ease of the precautions against the novel coronavirus, as Eid alFitr, a Muslim festival of breaking the fast at the end of the holy month of Ramadan, is being observed across most of the region. In Turkey, the hardest hit country by the coronavirus in the Middle East, reported  new cases on Monday, raising the total number to ,, Turkish Health Minister Fahrettin Koca said. Meanwhile, the death toll from COVID rose to , in Turkey after  new fatalities in the past  hours were confirmed, Koca added. Turkey has been recently witnessing more signs of slowdown in the pandemic, with daily new infections kept at around , in the past week. The Iranian authorities on Monday allowed partial reopening of the Muslim Shiite shrines across the country after more than two months of closure over the coronavirus pandemic. The Iranian health ministry reported , new cases of the coronavirus on Monday, bringing the total number in the country to , since the outbreak in late February, state TV reported. Meanwhile, the death toll has hit , in Iran and , have recovered with , still in critical condition, according to the countrys health ministry. Saudi Arabia, also hard hit by the coronavirus outbreak, also announced on Monday the gradual ease of precautionary measures against the COVID, the Saudi Press Agency SPA reported. The gradual steps, with social distancing regulations obeyed and based on medical reports of the spread of the virus, will start from Thursday and expand until the situation is back to normal, the SPA quoted Health Minister Tawfiq AlRabiah as saying. Saudi Arabia has controlled the spread of the virus through early precautionary measures, especially maintaining a low death rate, the minister noted. The Arab kingdom announced on Monday , new coronavirus cases, raising the total number of infections to ,, while death toll rose by nine to . In Israel, only  new coronavirus cases were reported on Monday, bringing the total number in the country to ,. After four consecutive days without a death case, the Israeli health ministry reported two new fatalities, bringing the death toll in the Jewish country from the COVID to . Earlier in the day, the Israeli transport ministry announced the full resumption of the states rail system on June . It is worth noting that Israels GDP contracted by annualized . percent in the first quarter of , the sharpest drop in the last  years and mainly due to the impacts of the coronavirus pandemic, according to a report released by the states Central Bureau of Statistics on Monday. Palestine on Monday declared the end of lockdown and a set of new measures in dealing with the COVID, lifting the ban on movement between cities immediately, and allowing public transport to operate in terms of safety procedures. Shops, commercial and industrial establishments, including cafes, restaurants, and health clubs as well as mosques and churches, will be allowed to reopen starting Tuesday morning, while official bodies will return to work regularly starting Wednesday morning after the end of Eid alFitr holiday, according to Palestine Prime Minister Mohammed Ishtaye. The number of COVID cases registered in Palestine has reached , including  recoveries and five deaths, with no new infections reported on Monday. Qatars health ministry on Monday announced , new infections of the novel coronavirus, taking the total number of confirmed cases to ,. As the first among the Gulf countries to report COVID cases, the United Arab Emirates UAE on Monday announced  new COVID cases, bringing the total number in the country to ,. The UAEs health ministry also confirmed three more deaths, bringing the death toll to . In Kuwait,  new cases of COVID and nine more deaths were reported on Monday, raising the tally of infections to , and the death toll to , the health ministry said in a statement. The Kuwaiti government has been imposing a full curfew in the Gulf country to curb the rapid increase of coronavirus cases. Egypt recorded on Monday  new COVID cases and  new deaths, bringing the total number of the cases and the death toll in the country to , and  respectively. The North African country has already started easing restrictions and gradually reopening services and offices that have been halted since midMarch amid the governments coexistence plan to maintain anticoronavirus precautionary measures while resuming services, businesses and economic activities. In Morocco,  new cases of COVID were confirmed on Monday, bringing the total number of cases to , in the North African country, with  deaths and , recoveries. Iraq confirmed  new COVID cases in the past  hours, bringing the total number in the country to ,. An Iraqi parliamentary crisis committee on Monday demanded reimposition of a full curfew after the end of the Eid alFitr holiday to curb the latest surge of COVID cases. In Jordan, both the public and private sectors will resume work on Tuesday after more than two months of stoppage as part of the measures to curb the spread of COVID, as the kingdom reported three cases of coronavirus on Monday, bringing the overall number to . In Lebanon and Syria, the number of COVID cases on Monday rose by five and  respectively to , and . Wartorn Yemen recorded on Monday  new confirmed COVID cases in the provinces controlled by the government, bringing the total number to .