COVID spike in US ignites new mess in responses
2021/8/12 11:11
Alexia German Gordero, , has her temperature taken as her family attends a coronavirus disease COVID vaccination clinic in Los Angeles, California, US, Aug , .  WASHINGTON  The resurgence of COVID in the United States, driven by the highly contagious Delta variant, is creating a new mess in the countrys responses to the onceinacentury pandemic that is rapidly straining its medical resources and health care system. Some US states, including Texas and Florida, are refusing to allow local authorities and school districts to reimpose mask mandates amid surging COVID cases, as some Republican governors continue to push individual responsibilities over government mandate in managing the spread of the disease, which has led to a series of lawsuits. Judge Clay Jenkins of Texass populous Dallas County, whos suing Governor Greg Abbott over mask rules, said in a statement earlier this week that the enemy is not each other, but the virus. We must all do all that we can to protect public health, Jenkins said. School districts and government closest to the people should make decisions on how best to keep students and others safe. In Florida, several school districts are considering mask mandates, as schools are returning from summer break, despite an executive order by Governor Ron DeSantis that leaves it up to parents to decide whether their children wear face coverings on campus. The governors office has responded by threatening to withhold the salaries of superintendents and school board members who disregard the order. Former US Surgeon General Jerome Adams said earlier this week that he feels it is deeply troubling that the country is letting politics get in the way of protecting public health, especially that of young people. As a father, I quite frankly think its unconscionable. I really do, Adams told CBS This Morning during an interview. US President Joe Biden told reporters at the White House on Tuesday that he doesnt think he could intervene in states that have banned mask mandates but added that his administration was studying the possibility. Most states and jurisdictions in the United States are experiencing substantial or high levels of community transmission fueled by the spread of the Delta variant, according to the latest COVID data tracker weekly review published by the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention CDC. The United States is now averaging more than , new COVID cases a day, the highest since February, with both hospitalizations and deaths going up, figures showed. The CDC is projecting that a total of , to , COVID deaths will be reported by early September in the country. Several states, including Florida, Arkansas, Louisiana, and Oregon, were reported to have had more people hospitalized with COVID than at any other point throughout the public health crisis, while nursing staffs are badly strained. In the state of Oklahoma, rural hospitals are reportedly having increased difficulty finding places to monitor and treat ICU patients. Were in the middle of a bed crisis, Carlos Cabrera, a doctor at a hospital in Shawnee, Oklahoma, told a local news outlet. Weve tried pretty much every hospital in Oklahoma  in Oklahoma City and in Tulsa  there are just no ICU beds. Amid growing concerns about the Delta variant, US officials and health experts have been actively encouraging people to get vaccinated against COVID, which the CDC has recently said remains the best tool to protect them from the disease, but some media outlets and politicians continue to sow doubt about vaccines in order to appeal to their bases. US Congresswoman Marjorie Taylor Greene, a Georgia Republican, has recently been suspended from Twitter for sharing misinformation about COVID, after posting that the countrys Food and Drug Administration FDA should not approve COVID vaccines. She also falsely claimed that vaccines are failing and do not reduce the spread of the virus and neither do masks. A Twitter spokesperson said that Greenes tweet was flagged for misinformation and that her account will be in readonly mode for a week due to repeated violations. Tom Frieden, a former CDC director, tweeted that the COVID surge in the United States is being driven primarily by people who havent yet been vaccinated. For vaccinated people, there is some risk from Delta, but its vastly lower than for unvaccinated people, Frieden said. There are very few vaccinated people who will get severely ill or die from COVID. COVID vaccines arent perfect, but they are stunningly effective. More than a dozen large US corporations have recently announced vaccine mandates for their employees. California has become the first state in the country to require all teachers and school staff to get vaccinated or receive weekly COVID testing. In his new book, Scott Gottlieb, former FDA commissioner, analyzed how COVID was able to trounce pandemic preparations in the United States. A systemwide failure across government institutions left the nation blind to the threat, and unable to mount an effective response, an online introduction of the book read. Wed prepared for the wrong virus. We failed to identify the contagion early enough and became overly reliant on costly and sometimes divisive tactics that couldnt fully slow the spread. We never considered asymptomatic transmission and we assumed people would follow public health guidance. Key bureaucracies like the CDC Centers for Disease Control and Prevention were hidebound and outmatched. Weak leadership aggravated these woes, it added. Rick Bright, former director of the Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority, a US Department of Health and Human Services office, said on Wednesday that many lives would have been saved if the federal government had listened to the science. If we had initiated testing, a really robust nationwide testing strategy to tell people where the virus was and tell people who were infected, if we had done more to prepare for the vaccine administration rollout when the vaccine became available, we could have saved hundreds of thousands of lives of our loved ones and relatives and others in our community, Bright told CNN during an interview. Frieden urged the United States to learn the lessons of this pandemic and strengthen public health in the country and globally. If we dont rise to the challenge, well continue to be just as vulnerable to the next pandemic, he tweeted.