Ningbo exporters eye trade boost
2020/5/26 9:43
Container ship HMM Oslo is docked at the Daxie port in Ningbo, Zhejiang province, on May .  Daily Coastal city charts diversified plans to cushion against pandemic woes Exporters in Ningbo, a coastal city in East Chinas Zhejiang province and a traditional foreign trade hub in China, have been tapping new trading platforms to boost their trade volume with the help of the local government, despite stagnant foreign dealings in countries and regions worldwide being locked down due to the COVID pandemic. We had a fruitful talk and negotiation with foreign purchasers for further business cooperation, and presented a variety of sanitary products at the event, including face masks and forehead thermometers, Dong Fangxia, a sales manager from Yinzhou Xiyu Import  Export Co Ltd in Ningbo, told China Daily. Dong was describing a recent online exhibition in April for antiepidemic products that her company attended. Hosted by the local commerce bureau, the event aims to launch a new platform for local exporters to better connect with the outside world, hoping to help local exporters deal with their sales and marketing issues. The citys commerce bureau said a total of  purchasers from more than  countries and regions had direct online talks and consultations with suppliers based in Ningbo through the online exhibition. Home to more than , foreign trade enterprises, Ningbo saw a decrease of  percent in imports and exports in the first quarter of  due to the novel coronavirus outbreak worldwide. To help companies cope with the difficulties caused by the disease, the Ningbo government released a slew of policies to support foreign trade and spur economic growth on March . Besides a financial relief fund totaling  million yuan . million, foreign trade companies in the city are able to get support from  items which include Customs clearance and insurance. After all these efforts, the citys foreign trade sector saw a slight increase in April with a growth rate of . percent in imports and exports. The foreign trade value stood at . billion yuan in April. Notably, exports rose . percent yearonyear to . billion yuan, outpacing both the provincial and national averages. Wang Xungang, a staff member in charge of the export business at Ningbo Asia Pulp  Paper Co Ltd, said the company has experienced steady growth with export value reaching  million in the first four months of this year, up . percent yearonyear. In a separate development, the HMM Oslo, one of the worlds largest container ships, docked last Tuesday at the Daxie port area of NingboZhoushan Port. It is the worlds largest port by throughput volume for  years in a row. The cargo handled at NingboZhoushan Port in  reached . billion metric tons, making it the worlds largest port by throughput volume for the th consecutive year, statistics from the Zhejiang Harbor and Shipping Administration showed. Measuring  meters in length,  meters in width and  meters in height, the HMM Oslo has a maximum tonnage of , tons and can accommodate up to , TEUs twentyfoot equivalent units. Xiang Wenjian contributed to this story.