Foreigntrade businesses adopt survival tactics
2020/5/26 9:42
Worshippers wash their hands as they arrive at Ramat Square Eid grounds in Maiduguri, Nigeria, ahead of the Eid alFitr prayer on Sunday.?AUDU MARTEAGENCE FRANCEPRESSE Africa has so far put paid to predictions that it could become the continent hardest hit by the coronavirus, with governments that refuse to buy into the doom prophecy now planning to reopen national economies. Governments across the continent are putting measures in place to cushion their economies as their prepare for the resumption of normal activities. The pandemic has infected more than , people and killed , in the continent. The World Health Organization warned recently that the coronavirus had the potential to infect millions across Africa. Still, with rates of infections and deaths lower than in other parts of the world, governments have been busy planning how to revive shuttered economies. South Africa, the most affected country in the continent with , cases and  deaths as of Sunday, has announced its restart plans. Briefing the Portfolio Committee on Trade and Industry on May , an official from the South African Department of Trade, Industry and Competition said the national lockdown had served its purpose and it was time to reopen the economy. Lionel October, the departments directorgeneral, said the government is finalizing consultations with stakeholders on how to systematically reopen industries and get the economy back to work. The country plans to reopen schools in June , starting with grade  and , the final years of elementary and secondary schooling, respectively. On Saturday, Home Affairs Minister Aaron Motsoaledi gave the green light for South Africans to return to countries where they are based. Kenyas stimulus program In East Africa, Kenyan President Uhuru Kenyatta on Saturday announced an point economic stimulus program to the tune of around  million to fuel growth and cushion families and companies as the country navigates its way out of the pandemic. The first element of the program will focus on infrastructure. The government intends to improve access roads, footbridges and other public infrastructure and set aside  million to hire labor for the projects. The second element, Kenyatta said, will cover education and the Ministry of Education has been allocated an additional budget of  million for these plans. The program will also target small and mediumsized enterprises hit by liquidity problems. The other elements include health, agriculture, tourism, the environment and manufacturing. On the other side of the continent, the Nigerian government said it is considering appropriate models to progressively reopen the economy, after an easing in the lockdown. Unlike other countries, Tanzania, under the leadership of President John Magufuli, resisted imposing a lockdown in any of its cities. Magufuli has allowed public gatherings to go ahead, but people have been asked to wear face masks and observe social distancing. The country has also relaxed some travel restrictions that had been put in place. Magufuli also announced plans to reopen the country to foreign tourists, with a mandatory coronavirus quarantine, along with moving to reopen schools and allow organized sports to resume.