China to drive global GDP growth this year and next
2020/5/26 9:18
Hong Kongs Joyce Beauty promotes a tribe of highperformance skincare products for the new normal. ? ? With stayathome orders on the way out and the darling buds of May now springing into their step, theres no better time to think about face time. Not the app, but the visage thats been suppressed behind a mask for the last three or four months. Cue Hong Kongs Joyce Beauty and its tribe of six beauty superstars that can help us make the most effective, trusted and beautiful choices for postisolation skin health. This sextet of sublime skincare offerings will not only revive our radiance, but also save our skin with gamechanging ingredients, scienceled technologies, advanced formulas and the highest sustainability standards. Photo provided to China Daily Dr. Barbara Sturm The German aesthetics doctor has gained a cult following through her nonsurgical antiageing treatments, which combine the best of science and nature. Two of her latest products, the firming Face Cream and the brand new dreamworthy Night Serum, use purslane, a superfood compound rich in antiinflammatory omega fatty acids and antioxidantheavy beta carotene, proven to extend the life of skin cells and activate telomerase, the fountain of youth enzyme in our cells. Photo provided to China Daily ReVive Inspired by Nobel Prizewinning science, Dr Gregory Bays Brown has developed biorenewal technology that mimics our skins own biorenewal processes to help the skin behave at a more youthful rate. Intensit Complete AntiAging Serum promotes skincell renewal, while its iteration just for the eyes softens lines and wrinkles and recontours the delicate eye zone. Together, theyre a dynamic duo. Photo provided to China Daily Omorovicza Hungarian thermal waters combine with cuttingedge science to create this powerful antiageing skincare range C and its mud is simply glorious. Relaxing and luxurious, the Thermal Cleansing Balm and Ultramoor Mud Mask, which are rich in calcium, magnesium, and humic and fulvic acid, detoxify and purify in equal measure, while marine exopolysaccharides plump fine lines and tighten collagen fibres to lift and firm. Photo provided to China Daily Skin Bring the best of Londons Harley Street to your home with this luxurious skincare brand by renowned cosmetic surgeon Dr Yannis Alexandrides, who has collaborated with space scientists to conjure a medically inspired range with heightened levels of efficacy. The brandnew Rose Gold Illuminating Eye Mask with pomegranate seedcell culture uplifts, illuminates and awakens the fragile periorbital region Space Defence Bright Eye Lift Gel does exactly what the name says and Y Theorem Repair Serum C the product that inspired the entire Skin portfolio C supports cell regeneration and improves elasticity of the skin. Photo provided to China Daily Perricone MD Acclaimed US doctor Nicholas Perricones secret is acylglutathione, which has three amino acids that protect and replenish fragile skin as the bodys master antioxidant. Try the Essential Fx AcylGlutathione Eyelid Lift Serum, an ultralightweight potion with a fastabsorbing texture that minimises eyelid creases, crpiness, sagging lids, undereye circles and darkness. At the same time, it replenishes moisture, while flaxseed, chia seed and macadamia seed oils restore suppleness and create a healthier glow. Photo provided to China Daily Wildsmith Skin A British brand new to Joyce this season thats inspired by horticulturalist William Wildsmith, this range calls itself modern skincare for those who want natural products but expect cosmeceutical results. Wildsmith uses nutrientrich botanicals, metallic elements and a new generation of plantderived bioactives. The labels sustainable mycelium packaging causes no harm to the environment. See its Active Repair Platinum Booster, which increases collagen density and boosts skin hydration levels, and the Active Repair Copper Peptide Serum, which activates cell metabolism, boosting the energy required to produce collagen and elastin fibres.