Whats the future for manufacturing amid COVID pandemic?
2020/5/26 9:14
A staff member checks the temperature of a woman before entering, as the swimming pool at the Sporting Club Ostiense reopens with new social distancing and hygiene rules after months of closure due to an outbreak of the coronavirus disease COVID, in Rome, Italy, May , .  ROME  A further  COVID patients have died in the past  hours in Italy, bringing the countrys toll to , out of , cases of infection, the Civil Protection Department said on Monday. Nationwide, the number of active infections dropped by , to , cases. Of those who tested positive for the new coronavirus,  are in intensive care,  fewer compared to Sunday, and , are hospitalized with symptoms, down by  patients from Sunday. The rest, , people, or about  percent of those who tested positive, are quarantined at home with no or only mild symptoms. Recoveries rose by , compared to Sunday, bringing the nationwide total to ,. Meanwhile, Italy started serological screening tests at the national level on Monday on a sample of , people to better understand how much the virus has spread across the resident population, and to ramp up the fight against the pandemic. The screening will be carried out by some  volunteers of the Italian Red Cross through  regional operative centers under the coordination of a national support center, the Health Ministry stated. The sample of the population, selected with the help of the National Institute of Statistics ISTAT, includes six different age groups categorized according to gender, employment profile and region of residence. The highest number of tests will be carried out in northern Lombardy ,, Veneto ,, Emilia Romagna , and Piedmont ,  the four regions most affected by the pandemic  followed by the others according to their epidemiological situation. Each person will take part in the screening on a voluntary basis only, and hisher personal data would remain anonymous and protected, the Health Ministry specified. In case the serological test is positive  suggesting the person has been exposed to the coronavirus and is developing immunity even without symptoms of the disease  a swab test would follow to confirm or dismiss the result. In related news on Monday, Italys Regional Affairs Minister Francesco Boccia warned that the easing of restrictions on interregional movement  planned on June   might be postponed if Italians were not to behave prudently in their social life. This warning came after gatherings of people  in several cases not respecting social distancing rules and not wearing face masks  were seen in nightlife areas in some cities on Saturday and Sunday, including in northern Milan, Brescia the seaside city of Rimini, some areas in Rome, and Messina in Sicily, according to the respective local authorities. We were not surprised by what took place last weekend, Boccia told La Stampa newspaper in an interview. It is understandable for people to be eager to stay outdoors after two months of lockdown. However, we cannot forget we are still in the COVID pandemic. Most citizens are respecting the rules and they are outraged at seeing the behavior of the few who do not, he stressed. He explained that next weekend the government will evaluate the latest data on the contagion and it might deem it unavoidable to take all the necessary time before allowing interregional movement again. The spread of the virus has perceptibly slowed down in recent weeks after first striking the country in late February. On May , the tenweek lockdown imposed on March  was further eased and shops, restaurants, bars, barbershops, beauty salons, museums and beachfront operators were all allowed to reopen on condition that they respect the rules on social distancing and regularly disinfect their facilities.