Yunnan, a popular tourism destination
2020/5/26 7:32
SONG CHENCHINA DAILY Given the huge pressure on the economy, Premier Li Keqiang emphasized the importance of technology in facilitating economic recovery in the Government Work Report he delivered to the National Peoples Congress on Friday. To be sure, quite a few sectors have made a number of major achievements in scientific and technological innovation and emerged as new growth drivers over the past few months. Since late January, when China began allout efforts to contain the novel coronavirus outbreak, Chinese enterprises have come up with one innovation after anotherfrom new products and new methods of production to new forms of enterprise organizationin the economic and social fields. And some of these such as smart technology can be developed further to boost the Chinese economy. Smart technology has played a particularly important role in leading a largely successful battle against the virus. Earlier, the pulse oximeter was needed to measure oxygen saturation in peoples arterial blood. But thanks to smart technology, many of the wearable devices, from smart watches to smart bracelets, popular among consumers now come equipped with the added function of measuring blood oxygen saturation. And with the pandemic raging across the world, the demand for hardware and software upgrades of such smart wearable devices will rise. In fact, many intelligent technologypowered smart devices, such as intelligent thermometers used in public places with a large flow of people, mobile phone positioning and tracking system, the personal health code system and community antiepidemic management apps, have been developed at a rapid pace in China. As such, smart technology is also expected to become a new growth driver for Chinas export sector. In the fight against the epidemic, Chinese enterprises have shown rapid response capability, reflected among other things in the manufacturing of innovative products, including KN masks made with the help of nano technology. Artificial intelligence AI has become the most popular new technology, a field in which China enjoys an advantage, over the past twoodd years. Of the four biggest enterprises using AI to safeguard public health, three are Chinese, and all three have intensified research and development to make new, smart products. For example, after lockdown was imposed on Wuhan, the then epicenter in China, on Jan , Uniview, a privatelyowned Chinese enterprise, launched an intensive antiepidemic RD campaign. Although the epidemic broke out just before the Chinese Lunar New Year, a time of travel for hundreds of millions of Chinese people, by the end of March, Uniview had launched a series of eight programs, and its innovative products and services including intelligent thermometers with thermal imaging, and AIand extrasensory technologybased equipment and antiepidemic community apps have been used in more than , projects in  cities in the Chinese mainland, and helped resume community life, school classes and factory production. Besides, a quarter of the companys intelligent manufacturing capacity is dedicated to making antiepidemic equipment, and it reached peak operation in April with daily production of , sets of such equipment. Chinese AI enterprises have rapidly grown to occupy an important position in the emerging intelligent antiepidemic equipment market, and their products are in high demand. For example, Univiews thermal imaging products, and AIand extrasensory technologybased devices hardly have any competitors. Consumers at home and abroad ordered such products as soon as they saw their demonstration online but still had to wait for up to two months to get the delivery. After meeting the urgent domestic need for such products, Uniview began exporting them from midMarch. The annual sales of these products are expected to reach  billion yuan . million this year, equivalent to more than onefifth of Univiews total revenue of . billion yuan. Besides, even after the pandemic is fully contained, the company is likely to find new uses for such devices. In the field of service trade, too, Chinas information technology and smart technology sector seems set to help develop new forms of ecommerce and become a new growth engine for service exports. For instance, some medical institutions provided free consultation for COVIDrelated symptoms using the internet in the initial stage of the outbreak. The scope of such free consultation has rapidly expanded to include all diseases, and the service is open x after governments at different levels launched different initiatives. If Chinas medical team cooperates with such online medical institutions to provide online medical services for overseas clients, they, too, can possibly become a new growth driver for Chinas service export sector. But, as the Government Work Report said, in order to unleash the potential of all types of production factors, it is important to increase the flow of human resources, and foster technology and data markets. The author is a researcher at the Chinese Academy of International Trade and Economic Cooperation. The views dont necessarily reflect those of China Daily.