Splendid landmarks of Hubei through all four seasons
2020/5/26 0:00
Despite the prediction that Africa could be hit hardest by the coronavirus pandemic, governments across Africa have refused to buy into the doom prophecy and are now putting measures in place to cushion their economies, which they plan to reopen soon. The pandemic has infected , people and killed , on the continent. South Africa, the most affected country on the continent with , cases and  deaths, has already announced plans to reopen its economy. While briefing the Portfolio Committee on Trade and Industry on Friday, the South African Department of Trade, Industry and Competition said the national lockdown had served its purpose and it was now time to reopen the economy. Lionel October, the departments directorgeneral, said the government is in the process of finalizing consultation with different stakeholders on how to systematically reopen industries and get the economy back on track. October said industries would be required to ensure workers safety and protection as a condition to return to business. Companies that do not put safety measures in place would be forced to close. Our role is to mobilize the industry to make sure it is able to produce and protect jobs, October said. The country is planning to reopen schools on June , starting with seventh and th grades, the final years of junior and senior school, respectively. On Saturday, Aaron Motsoaledi, minister of home affairs, approved essential travel for South Africans who want to return to countries where they are based. Permission will be granted to those departing for work, study, family reunion, medical attention or permanent residency. Stimulus package Kenyan President Uhuru Kenyatta announced an eightpoint economic stimulus package on Saturday, worth around  million, to fuel growth, and cushion families and companies as the country navigates its way out the pandemic. The first element of the package will focus on infrastructure. The government intends to rehabilitate access roads, footbridges and other public infrastructure, and has set aside  million to hire local labor for the purpose. The second element, he said, is for the education sector. He said the Ministry of Education had been allocated an additional amount of  million. I know the anxiety weighing on the minds of parents and children about when schools will reopen. We will, in the very near future, be communicating about it, he said, adding that , teachers and , information and communication technology interns will be hired to support digital learning. The program will also target small and medium enterprises whose liquidity has been adversely affected. The other elements include health, agriculture, tourism, environment and manufacturing. Nigeria has announced it is considering appropriate models to progressively reopen the economy, after the easing of lockdown and closure of businesses. The statement was made after a proposal to reopen the economy was submitted to President Muhammadu Buhari by Zainab Ahmed, minister for finance, budget and national planning, and Otunba Adebayo, minister for industry, trade and investment. Unlike other African countries, John Magufuli, president of Tanzania, has always maintained that the country will not impose lockdown on any of its cities. He has also allowed public gatherings like religious meetings, while people have been directed to wear face masks and observe social distancing. The country has also relaxed travel restrictions. There is not going to be any such thing as lockdown in Tanzania. God will help us. We need to work hard. Once the other East Africans are done with their lockdown, they will come to us and we shall still help them with food, Magufuli said recently while addressing a church congregation. Schools to commence He also announced plans to reopen the country to foreign tourists without the requirement for mandatory quarantine. He announced plans to reopen schools and allow sporting activities to resume. On Wednesday, Botswana ended its day lockdown and allowed the reopening of businesses and schools under strict conditions, including wearing of masks, checking body temperature and regular disinfection. However, foreign visitors are barred from visiting the country while returning citizens will undergo mandatory quarantine. The United Nations Economic Commission for Africa recently urged the continent to learn from the experience of other regions on reopening their economies. In its report titled, COVID Lockdown Exit Strategies for Africa, published on May , the agency proposed exit strategies tried around the world and outlined the risks involved for African countries. edithmutethyachinadaily.com.cn A boy looks on as he stands outside the meat section of a market in Dakar, Senegal, on Saturday. JOHN WESSELSAFP