Multilanguage website offers free picture books on COVID for children of the world
2020/5/25 16:50
People wearing protective face masks walk at Shibuya station as the spread of the coronavirus disease COVID continues, in Tokyo, Japan May , .  TOKYO  Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe on Monday lifted the state of emergency in Japan for the five remaining prefectures, including Tokyo, as the spread of the virus has been brought under control. Today the government will lift the state of emergency across the nation. Weve set some of the most strict criteria in the world to lift the declaration, and we concluded that prefectures across the country have met that standard, the Japanese leader told a press conference. The remaining prefectures that were still subject to restrictions under the emergency declaration were Tokyo, Chiba, Kanagawa, Saitama and Hokkaido prefectures. Abes remarks and the official lifting of the state of emergency for the five prefectures brought an end to emergency measures issued first for Tokyo, Osaka and five other urban areas on April . The announcement came after the governments coronavirus advisory panel showed support for the move earlier in the day. The advisory panel had been focusing on the lifting criteria which was based around the number of newly reported cases over the past week, the availability of medical resources, and the capacity to provide virus tests and monitor the spread of the virus. The advisory panel has agreed that all prefectures no longer need to be under a state of emergency and that lifting the declaration is appropriate, Economic Revitalization Minister Yasutoshi Nishimura said, adding that the situation would be closely monitored and reviewed every three weeks. Nishimura also said that social and economic activities, including largescale events, would be phased back in, although people would still be asked not to travel across prefecture lines until the end of this month. The government, while showing caution amid the coronavirus pandemic, has been keen to see the economy fully reopened as the five prefectures account for around onethird of the countrys gross domestic product. On May , data released by the government showed that Japans economy shrank for a second straight quarter in the JanuaryMarch period and entered a technical recession as a result of the adverse effects of the coronavirus pandemic. The Cabinet Office said the economy shrank by an annualized real . percent in the JanuaryMarch period from the previous quarter. The decrease in the quarter corresponds to a . percent decline on a seasonally adjusted quarterly basis, the Cabinet Office said. The Japanese leader is now tasked with ushering in a new normal for society, which balances the rejuvenation of the countrys recessionhit economy, while ensuring the nation is not hit by an explosive second wave of COVID infections.