Intelligent methods used to recover trade after outbreak
2020/5/25 16:42
? A man wearing a protective face mask waits at the arrivals section of the international terminal of Kingsford Smith International Airport in Sydney, March , .  SYDNEY  Despite recording a steady increase for the past several decades Australias life expectancy has begun to stagnate, local research disclosed on Monday, with growing social inequality being blamed for the change. The University of Melbourne led research analyzed data from Australias death registry for , identifying socioeconomic status and geographic location as two major contributors to differences in life expectancy. Australia has one of the highest life expectancies in the world, which in  was . years for males and . years for females, according to the Australian Bureau of Statistics. However, a slowing in the decline of premature deaths among lower socioeconomic and nonurban populations, has tempered growth in the populations overall life expectancy. Meanwhile there has been no slowdown in the rate of mortality decline in the highest socioeconomic areas of major cities. Between the ages of , the premature death rate for those of worse socioeconomic status was double that of those in the highest category. Similarly, people living in the most disadvantaged geographic locations suffered a roughly  percent higher premature death rate than those in major cities, with the gaps widening in the early part of the century. Coleader of the research, Professor Alan Lopez from the University of Melbourne said decisive actions were required from government to address the issue, adding that the ongoing COVID might worsen social inequality. Reducing this widening gap in mortality will require a significant shift in policy, with a stronger emphasis on the context and stressors prevalent among regional, rural and low socioeconomic groups, Lopez said. The advent of COVID might well exacerbate this already unfavourable trend due to increased stress and unemployment hitting the least well off hardest, which could well have a flowon effect in terms of poorer health behaviours and access to health care. This ought to be a key consideration in government policy responses to COVID, he said.