Cases still show rise in Latin America
2020/5/25 9:36
? People are seen at the President Juscelino Kubitschek International Airport, amid the spread of the coronavirus disease COVID, in Brasilia, Brazil on May , .  SAO PAULOAs countries in Europe, Asia and Africa begin ease restrictions due to the slowing spread of the coronavirus, countries in Latin America are still facing an uphill battle. Brazilthe worlds virus hot spot behind the United Statesregistered  new coronavirus deaths on Saturday, taking the total number of fatalities to ,. The number of confirmed cases rose to ,. In Argentina, the country extended until June  a mandatory lockdown in Buenos Aires on Saturday and tightened some restrictions, after a steady increase in the citys cases in recent days. Officials will tighten traffic controls between the capital and Buenos Aires Province, the area with the second highest concentration of cases, Argentinas President Alberto Fernandez said. The country has recorded , infections, while the death toll is at . In the US, President Donald Trump played golf at one of his courses on Saturday at the start of the Memorial Day weekend as he urged US states to reopen after coronavirusrelated lockdowns. Yet many US citizens remained cautious as the number of confirmed cases nationwide passed . million. Officials in Los Angeles County said they would maintain tight restrictions until July . New York state reported its lowest number of daily fatalities of  in many weeks in what Governor Andrew Cuomo described as a critical benchmark. Cuomo signed an order on late Friday allowing people to assemble in groups of as many as  as long as they stay at least . meters from other people and wear masks when they cant maintain that distance. In Europe, Spain said on Saturday it would let in foreign tourists and restart top league football in the coming weeks, marking another phase in the easing of one of the worlds strictest lockdowns. Prime Minister Pedro Sanchez announced the resumption of tourism and football, saying that from July , entry for foreign tourists into Spain will resume in secure conditions and La Liga football could resume on June . In Italy, authorities confirmed on Saturday that an announced serological screening at the national level would begin next week on , people to ramp up the countrys fight against the pandemic. In France, the authorities are relaxing border restrictions from Monday as the virus gradually recedes, allowing migrant workers and family visitors from other European countriesbut requiring quarantine for people arriving from Britain and Spain, and travelers from outside Europe are still banned until at least June , except for French citizens. Singleday spike A man adjusts a face mask with his image printed on it created at a photo studio as other face masks are hung in Chennai, India, on Saturday.?ARUN SANKARAGENCE FRANCEPRESSE In Asia, India on Sunday registered another biggest singleday spike in COVID cases, raising its tally by , to ,. The easing of restrictions with the announcement of the fourth phase of the lockdown in the country has seen an increasing trend in the new cases, and health experts also attribute the spike in cases to the increase in Indias testing capacity. Iran on Saturday announced a further relaxation of lockdown measures, and said it has started to gain control of the outbreak in nearly a third of its provinces. Ten out of Irans  provinces are now in the containment stage, said Irans President Hassan Rouhani. As of Sunday, the tally of COVID infections in the country rose to ,, while death toll was ,. In Africa, the South African government on Saturday approved essential travel for its nationals who want to return to countries where they are based. South Africans who wish to leave the country are permitted to depart only for one of the following reasons work, study, family reunion, taking up permanent residency and receiving medical attention. Xinhua  Agencies