Latest on the novel coronavirus outbreak
2020/5/25 5:54
A New York City Police Department NYPD officer monitors beachgoers on the boardwalk at Coney Island beach on the Memorial Day weekend during the outbreak of the COVID in Brooklyn, New York City, US.  It was a Memorial Day weekend in America like no other. The nation celebrated the unofficial beginning of summer at beaches and parks with face coverings and social distancing of at least six feet C though not everywhere C as the number of US deaths from the coronavirus approached ,. Traditional parades and flag ceremonies honoring fallen military heroes on Monday were canceled or changed, with participants inside vehicles and people asked to stay at home and watch online. At Tybee Island in coastal southern Georgia, beachgoers stretched out on towels, sat under umbrellas and splashed in the Atlantic Ocean. They largely respected rules requiring groups stay six feet apart and have no more than  people, but few wore masks, according to a CNN crew. If its my turn to go, Im going. If not, Im enjoying life, a maskless James Dixon told the CNN crew. In California, beaches are open for active use, which doesnt include lounging on beach towels. Beaches were closed in New York City. In Daytona Beach, Florida, beachgoers were asked to stay at least  feet apart. Masks were advised, but Mayor Derrick Henry said that it wasnt realistic or practical to ask people to go to the beach and wear a mask. President Donald Trump played golf on Saturday at his private club in Sterling, Virginia. He was seen leaving the White House and playing golf without a mask. Republican Governor Doug Burgum of North Dakota issued an emotional plea for residents of his state to avoid ideological or political divides on the choice to wear face coverings. If someone is wearing a mask, theyre not doing it to represent what political party theyre in or what candidates they support, Burgum said during?a press conference on Friday. His voice broke with emotion as he went on to say that people might wear a face mask because theyve got a yearold child whos been going through cancer treatments. They might have vulnerable adults in their life who currently have COVID, and theyre fighting. More than . million people in the United States have tested positive for coronavirus, which has killed more than , nationwide, according to data from Johns Hopkins University. The continuing restrictions of some stayathome orders also prompted Trump on Friday to?declare houses of worship essential, and he threatened to override governors who have ordered churches, synagogues and mosques not to reopen. But the president doesnt have the authority to force governors to follow his demand and several governors rejected it. Governor Gina Raimondo said, No, thats not happening in Rhode Island Were not ready, adding that would be reckless. Trump ordered flags to be lowered Friday through Sunday in memory of the Americans we have lost to the CoronaVirus. Flags will be at halfstaff Monday, Memorial Day, in honor of the men and women in our Military who have made the Ultimate Sacrifice for our Nation, Trump tweeted. New York Governor Andrew Cuomo announced Saturday that New York has seen the lowest number of daily coronavirus deaths since the state became the epicenter of the virus.?The state had  deaths Friday, the first time since March the figure was below . With new hospitalizations also declining, the governor said the state?expects to reopen areas of the state. New York City isnt expected to ease most of its restrictions until the first or second week of June, according to Mayor Bill de Blasio. In Ohio, Governor Mike DeWine asked officials in Ironton, an Appalachian town of , people, to follow social distancing guidelines for their annual Memorial Day parade, which has been held without interruption since . The parade will go on. But instead of marching, participants will stay inside their vehicles. People have been asked to stay on porches or watch online. A Memorial Day parade from Vidalia, Louisiana, to the Natchez National Cemetery in Mississippi goes back to . Instead of marching this time, people will motorcade in masks and gloves to let veterans know that they have not been forgotten, said Laura Ann Jackson, cochair of the parade. Its going be different this year, she said. At Arlington National Cemetery, on Thursday about , soldiers placed small American flags in front of more than , headstones to honor every individual laid to rest there. For the rest of Memorial Day weekend, Arlington National Cemetery was to be closed to the general public but open to family pass holders to visit their loved ones gravesites. All visitors were required to have a face covering to enter the cemetery and wear it where people are unable to stand more than sixplus feet from each other.