Turkeys COVID cases top ,, Irans tally crosses ,
2020/5/24 13:00
CAIRO  Turkeys COVID cases on Saturday exceeded , with more than , new cases. Meanwhile, Iran witnessed a higher surge of coronavirus cases with the tally surging past ,. A Four Seasons Sultanahmet Hotel staff member disinfects a table as she checks the readiness of the hotel to the Healthy Tourism Certificate Program aims to convince travellers despite the spread of the coronavirus disease COVID, in Istanbul, Turkey, May , .  The total number of COVID cases in Turkey, the hardesthit country in the Middle East, climbed to , after , new infections were reported, Turkish Health Minister Fahrettin Koca tweeted. The death toll from the coronavirus in the country rose to , after  new fatalities were added in the past  hours, he said, adding that , more patients recovered, bringing the overall number of recoveries to ,. In Iran, the tally of COVID infections surged to , after , new cases were registered. The country also reported  new deaths from the virus on Saturday, raising the death toll to ,. A total of , coronavirus patients have recovered, with , still in critical condition. Early on the day, Iranian President Hassan Rouhani announced that the countrys touristic sites, including museums and historical sites, will reopen on Sunday after nearly three months of closure over the pandemic. ? Employees wear protective face masks, at a testing center for coronavirus disease COVID, in Tehran, Iran, May , .  Holy shrines will reopen on Monday for three hours in the mornings and three hours in the afternoons and all workers in the country will return to work from May , the president noted. Saudi Arabia announced , new cases and  more deaths, raising the total number of confirmed cases to , and the death toll to . The kingdom also reported , more recovered patients, taking the total recoveries to ,. In Qatar, , new cases of coronavirus infections were detected, bringing the total number to ,, of whom  have died and , recovered. The United Arab Emirates UAE announced  new COVID cases and three more deaths, raising the tally of infections to , and the death toll to . The total number of recoveries from the virus in the UAE increased to , after  more fully recovered. Kuwait reported  new cases, bringing the countrys total number of infections to ,, of whom  have died and , recovered. Israel reported  new COVID cases since Thursday, bringing the tally of coronavirus infections to ,, including , recoveries. It is worth noting that the active cases in Israel dropped to ,, the lowest number since March . Meanwhile, the death toll from COVID in the country remains at  as no new death case was recorded since Thursday. Egypt witnessed a record of  daily new deaths of COVID, bringing the death toll in country to . The Egyptian Health Ministry also reported  new confirmed cases and  cases of recoveries, increasing the tally of infections to , and the total recoveries to ,. The North African country has received three batches of medical aid from the Chinese government to help its fight against the COVID pandemic. In Morocco, the tally of COVID cases rose to , after  new cases were added, which included  fatalities and , recoveries. Omans Ministry of Health announced  new cases of infections, bringing the total number of COVID cases in the country to ,, including  deaths and , recoveries. Iraq confirmed  new coronavirus cases, the highest daily increase so far, bringing the total number of infections to ,, of whom  have died and , recovered. The country has received batches of medical aid from China and the support from a team of Chinese medical experts during their day stay. In Lebanon, the number of COVID infections increased by  to ,, while the death toll remained unchanged at . The total number of COVID cases in Yemens governmentcontrolled areas increased to  with seven new cases. The number of recoveries in the governmentcontrolled areas increased to six and the death toll increased to  in different areas under its control, including the southern port city of Aden. In addition, health authorities in the Yemeni Houthi rebelheld capital Sanaa has declared earlier a total number of four infections in northern Yemen, including one death. In Syria,  new cases were recorded, raising the overall number of infections in the country to  which included four fatalities and  recoveries. Meanwhile, the Hamasrun health ministry in Gaza reported the first death from COVID in the Palestinian enclave, bringing the death toll in the Palestinian territories to five. A total of  people in Gaza have been infected with the coronavirus since March , of whom  patients have recovered.