Civil society boosts global antivirus fight
2020/5/24 0:00
The novel coronavirus has infected more than , people and claimed over , lives in the Chinese mainland, but it also helped the Chinese people realize the importance of adequate medical supply, diagnostics and medical treatment, and the necessity of timely dissemination of information and experience sharing. Motivated by either the urge to reciprocate the assistance China received from the international community in its fight against the coronavirus, a sense of humanitarianism, or simply the love for compatriots living abroad, an increasing number of Chinese social organizations and civil forces have been providing aid for countries severely hit by the pandemic. They started by dispatching medical supplies such as face masks, personal protective equipment PPE and test kits to other countries. According to incomplete data, as of May , Chinese enterprises, social organizations and individuals had donated  million yuan . million in cash,  million face masks, . million test kits, , sets of medical equipment, . million PPEs,  million yuan worth of traditional Chinese medicine and infrared thermometers, . million pieces of other medical products, and countless other materials. The participation of Chinese enterprises and civil society in the global fight against the pandemic goes far beyond making donations, as they have arranged to send medical teams, provided online training for other countries health workers, translated vital medical documents into several languages, and disseminated information on Chinas practices and experiences in the antivirus fight. The Silk Road NGO Cooperation Network, initiated by China NGO Network for International Exchanges in , has attracted about  NGOs from more than  countries along the Belt and Road, launched the Joint Action for Defeating COVID and promoted online experience sharing about COVID control, mobilized its members to provide medical aid for and share antipandemic experience with their partners in the severely hit countries along the Belt and Road. Blue Sky Rescue, Chinas largest nongovernmental humanitarian organization established in , has sent a member aid team to Cambodia. Having just concluded their work in Wuhan, the  volunteers brought with them . million yuan worth of aid supplies and helped local communities prevent the spread of the virus and disinfect about . million square meters in  days. The Jack Ma Foundation and Alibaba Foundation jointly established online platform Global MediXchange for Combating COVIDGMCC to help health workers the world over to exchange experiences and knowhow to boost the fight against the virus. Also, Alibaba Groups DingTalk, a messaging and collaboration platform that powers GMCC, has been hailed by the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization for facilitating distance learning during the outbreak. The GMCC has attracted more than  medical institutions from  countries and regions. And as part of the GMCC program, the Handbook of COVID Prevention and Treatment, which provides guidelines and best practices by Chinas top experts to fight the virus, has been available free of cost in multiple languages. Besides, many Chinese enterprises have used their advantages to strengthen the fight against the virus. For example, some logistics companies devised innovative ways to smoothen the flow of antivirus supplies across borders, while many Chinese companies operating overseas donated supplies to local communities. Also, Chinese civil organizations always keep in mind the needs of the poor and the weak. During any pandemic, disadvantaged groups such as refugees, orphans, the elderly and the disabled are the most vulnerable. As such, some Chinese organizations have chosen to prioritize their aid distribution to disadvantaged groups in Ghana, South Africa, Lebanon, Myanmar, Nepal, as well as Japan, Germany and the United States. Moreover, the private sector in China has partnered with international and regional organizations, while the Jack Ma Foundation and Alibaba have coorganized ChinaAfrica webinars on the fight against the virus with the African Center for Disease Control and Prevention and the UN Office of SouthSouth Cooperation, and donated face masks and test kits to the World Health Organization. And many Chinese social media platforms have partnered with the UN Development Programme and the WHO to launch a social media campaign to coax the online community to disseminate information on the coronavirus. By April , global initiatives led by Chinas social organizations against the pandemic covered  countries, or . percent of all the countries hit by the virus. Indeed, in recent years Chinas civil society has played and proactively promoted global agendas on issues such as human rights, climate change, sustainable development and poverty alleviation, and its competence and spirit of cooperation have been accompanied by concrete actions. In the battle against the virus, only by mobilizing the strength of the whole society can we tide over the difficulties. As the WHO rightly said, In global health security, we are only as strong as the weakest link. No one is safe until we are all safe. The author is a researcher with the United Nations Association of China. The views dont necessarily reflect those of China Daily. ?