National Museum of China joins hands with Tsinghua University to protect cultural relics
2020/5/23 14:00
Yuan Weifang, center, a nurse at Shanghai No  Peoples Hospital and a member of the hospitals medical team to Wuhan,?attends to a novel coronavirus pneumonia patient in Wuhan, Hubei province, on April , .  China needs to enhance public health talents and supplies to better its capability against public health emergencies, legislators and advisors from Shanghai said during the ongoing two sessions in Beijing. Public health talents are the top productive force in building a modern system of disease prevention and control, Liu Yan, deputy to the National Peoples Congress, said. Liu, also the vicepresident of No  Peoples Hospital affiliated to Shanghai Jiao Tong University, suggested expanding the investment in public health education and strengthening incentives to cultivate more talents in this field. More practical training will prepare them for a quicker response to public health emergency, she said at the ongoing annual meeting of the NPC. Wu Fan, member to the Chinese Peoples Political Consultative Conference, echoed Lius opinion, and said public health needs interdisciplinary talents. As the vicedean of the Shanghai Medical College of Fudan University, Wu proposed establishing a complete registration, evaluation and promotion system in the public health sector to address the talents drain in this field. Besides talent reserves, CPPCC member Zhu Tongyu, also director of the Shanghai Public Health Center, stressed the importance of medical supply reserve and medical infrastructure. Zhu suggested the government should build  strategic medical emergency centers in Chinas megacities, each with a capacity of , to , beds. NPC deputy Wang Wei, deputy general manager of the Shanghai Home Textile Co, proposed that government establish a national emergency supply system incorporating private and state reserves of tents, masks, food and medicine, which are able to meet the demand during crisis while circulating in the market in normal times. In April, Shanghai government issued a guideline on improving the control and management system in response to major public health emergency. The guideline, which covers the capacity building of the system, response mechanism and support measures, laid out the blueprint in building the city to be one of the safest megapolis in the world in public health by .