RitzCarlton in Shanghai boosts packages
2020/5/23 0:00
As more businesses have resumed normal hours in the aftermath of the novel coronavirus crisis, the RitzCarlton hotel in Shanghais Pudong area is welcoming back guests with attractive room packages and improved service standards. Located in the Lujiazui Financial District and surrounded by a number of tourist attractions, The RitzCarlton Shanghai, Pudong, will celebrate its th anniversary next month. It will coincide with Dragon Boat Festival, a traditional Chinese holiday that will fall on June  this year. We want to take this opportunity to provide our guests with the finest personal services and facilities, and enjoy a safe and clean yet warm, relaxed and refined ambience, said Hoss Vetry, general manager of the hotel. With such an offer, guests can experience the hotels tailormade services, enjoy a stay in spacious and comfortable art deco rooms with views of the Oriental Pearl Tower and the Bundsignature Shanghai attractions on the Huangpu Riverand be pampered by a classic RitzCarlton afternoon tea and happy hour during sunset, according to Vetry. So far, China has seen tourism and consumption rebound with a relaxation of travel restrictions amid dwindling COVID cases across the country. Vetry said consumer confidence is steadily recovering. The occupancy of the hotel has gradually picked up recently, although there is some way to go to reach its average level. Our room occupancy turnover in the first week of May doubled compared to the same period in April, Vetry said. He added that occupancy is expected to further rise in the near future. Meanwhile, Vetry stressed that the wellbeing of guests and associates remains the utmost priority.Maintaining high standards of hygiene is the core of the hotel at this stage, he said. To provide guests with a safe and comfortable environment, the hotel has taken a series of daily measures. For example, all its employees must wear masks and receive temperature checks when on duty. Guests are required to present their health QR codes and have their temperatures taken before checkin. Masks and hand sanitizer are also available for guests. According to the hotel, the frequency of cleaning and disinfection of highlyused surface areas and items including door handles, TV remote controllers, light switches and telephones have been increased. Seating capacity at each of its restaurants is strictly controlled to make space for social distancing. Vetry said the hotel is looking to more ways, such as installing electric soap dispensers and hand dryers as standard in public washrooms, automatic doors and even infrared sensors to track those who have a fever. All of these efforts are to ease safety and hygiene concerns of guests and better support customers in the future, he said. New experience As the pandemic takes a turn for the better, more people such as business travelers and local guests are coming back to the hotel. There they will consume refreshing and wholesome products and experiences in a safe and hygienic environment. According to the hotel, its Italian restaurant Scena, which was recognized as one of the top Italian restaurants of  by Gambero Rossoknown as the Michelin list of Italian restaurantswill reopen on June . The breakfast will be revamped with a new modern style of buffet to enhance the guest experience, as well as a wider variety of dishes and more Chinese specialties. Scena will not only create a special weekday lunch but introduce a new style of weekend afternoon tea. The Spa at The RitzCarlton Shanghai, Pudong, a Forbes Travel Guide fivestarrated spa for four consecutive years, recently launched a new tailormade bamboo treatment. The bamboo strips, which originated from China and were further processed in Italy, can help promote body tissue regeneration and speeding up metabolic systems. Its gentle pressure can help eliminate blockages, stress and fatigue in the body, it said. For the upcoming summer vacation season, the hotel will launch various room packages to meet the needs of different customers. For example, it has collaborated with Lexus to arrange a luxury limousine service for guests who want to visit Shanghais top attractions, such as Disneyland and Shanghai Wildlife Park during their stays. Guests can also enjoy two daily breakfasts for only  yuan . if they stay at the hotel before Aug . wanghongyichinadaily.com.cn ? The RitzCarlton Shanghai, Pudong provides views of the Oriental Pearl Tower and the Bund, signature Shanghai attractions on the Huangpu River. CHINA DAILY ? ? ? ? ? ?