France to hold delayed nd round of municipal elections on June
2020/5/22 20:35
French Prime Minister Edouard Philippe presents the details of the health procedures to be adopted during the mayoral elections expected to take place at the end of the coronavirus disease COVID lockdown period, at the Hotel Matignon in Paris, France, May , .  PARIS  France has decided to organize the delayed second round of mayoral elections on June , which Prime Minister Edouard Philippe said on Friday is reversible if the coronavirus epidemic situation turns against it. On May , we will present a decree calling voters to the polls on June , Philippe said at a joint press conference with Interior Minister Christophe Castaner. Of Frances , cities, towns and villages, about , already elected their mayors in the first round on March . But many large cities are among those remaining, including Paris, Lyon and Marseille, according to stateowned broadcaster France . The second round of mayoral elections was originally planned on March , but the worsening coronavirus outbreaks and the anticoronavirus lockdown had forced the French government to postpone it. Philippe admitted that consultations with opposition representatives did not reach consensus but the government has to take responsibility and the democratic life should resume. However, if the epidemic unfortunately rebounds, the polls will be postponed until next January at the latest, he added. The opinion of the governments scientific advisory council will be heard two weeks ahead of the scheduled voting. Castaner announced that wearing a mask and washing hands with hydroalcoholic gel would be compulsory for voting on June  and this material will be supplied by the communities assisted by the State. As of Thursday, Frances death toll from coronavirus topped , while new infections and patients in intensive care continued to decrease. Since May , the country has gradually eased restriction measures on business activities and peoples movement with the aim to relaunch the hardhit economy.