Top execs weigh in on postpandemic business prospects
2020/5/22 11:29
? Travelers, some in protective gear, walk through John F. Kennedy Airport JFK in New York City, on April , .  The US Transportation Security Administration TSA has revised airport screening procedures to limit the risk of spreading the novel coronavirus among its employees and air travelers. Effective immediately, passengers will be asked to observe social distancing and place their boarding passes on computer scanners themselves rather than handing them to TSA agents. The agency said it now will require travelers to remove wallets, keys, belts and phones and place them in a carryon bag rather than in a bin to reduce touchpoints during the screening process. The TSA said it developed the new guidelines in conjunction with the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention CDC. Adjustments include metering passengers to increase the distance between individuals as they enter the security checkpoint queue, placing visual reminders of appropriate spacing on checkpoint floors and staggering the use of lanes in the security checkpoint where feasible, the TSA said in a statement. The TSA said passengers will be permitted to include one ounce bottle of liquid hand sanitizer in carryon bags. But those carrying that amount of hand sanitizer will be screened separately because it exceeds the current limit for liquids. If a bag doesnt pass Xray screening, the owner may be asked to unpack it and send it through the machine a second time rather than an agent searching it by hand, the TSA said. The TSA encourages travelers to pack food in a clear plastic bag to make it easier to check and to avoid the item being touched. The new procedures may increase the time needed to get through security. The TSA advised passengers to plan accordingly. Airlines now require passengers to wear face masks on planes, and the TSA will encourage everyone to wear a mask in airport terminals. Airlines for America, a Washingtonbased trade association, urged the TSA to conduct airport temperature checks for fevers, but the new TSA guidelines make did not mention that. Earlier this month, Frontier Airlines said it plans to begin screening all passengers and crew in June. Anyone with a temperature above . F  C will not be allowed to board. The TSA said it has instructed its employees to conduct regular cleaning and disinfecting of frequently touched surfaces at checkpoints. Agents will put on a fresh pair of gloves at a passengers request. The TSA said  of its employees have tested positive for the coronavirus since it first took steps to limit the spread of the disease. A total of  TSA workers have recovered, and six have died. One independent contractor has died from COVID complications. The TSA said  agents tested positive for the coronavirus at New Yorks John F. Kennedy International Airport  at New Jerseys Newark Liberty Airport  at Bostons Logan International Airport and  at Los Angeles International Airport. Governmentenforced lockdowns have slashed demand for air travel. The number of passengers passing through checkpoints has ticked up since April but is down about  percent in May compared with a year earlier, the agency said. In response, airlines have cut flights, grounded planes and furloughed employees. Major carriers have reported steep firstquarter financial losses. But the airlines expect traffic to recover slowly. Starting in June, Delta Air Lines said it plans to limit aircraft capacity to  percent in first class and  percent in other classes to maintain social distancing. The airline said it will add up to  flights to accommodate passengers. Delta said it will use highefficiency particulate absorbing HEPA filters to clean cabin air. All planes will be sanitized between flights. As more and more people get ready to travel again, they can be confident the measures we are taking will help protect their safety, said Bill Lentsch, Deltas chief customer experience officer, in a statement. United Airlines said it plans to limit capacity on its flights to  percent to maintain social distancing.