UK admits neglecting care homes during virus crisis
2020/5/21 16:47
FILE PHOTO Care workers at the Elizabeth Lodge Care Home join members of the public in a weekly clap in support of care workers, during the coronavirus disease COVID pandemic, in Enfield, Britain, April , .? The United Kingdom has admitted prioritizing National Health Service patients over people in privatesector care homes during the early weeks of the novel coronavirus outbreak. Justice Secretary Robert Buckland conceded on Wednesday that the nation realized in March and April it did not have enough capacity to test everyone suspected of carrying the virus that causes the COVID respiratory disease. He said during an interview with Sky News that the nation decided to make most tests available to people in NHS facilities, which came at the expense of care homes where many elderly people live. I think we needed to make a choice about testing and we did decide to focus upon the NHS, he said. The issue with care homes is that weve got many thousands of different providers, different settings, there have been lots of examples of care homes that have mercifully stayed infectionfree, but, sadly, far too many cases of infection and then death. The lack of testing may have contributed to the virus becoming established in many of these care homes. According to official statistics, . percent of deaths linked to the novel coronavirus during the week ending May  were in care homes. Politicians from rival political parties have criticized the governments handling of the pandemic and the revelation has added fuel to the fire, but Buckland insisted Now is not the time to blame people. I think that would be wholly counterproductive. During the governments daily news briefing, Culture Secretary Oliver Dowden announced the establishment of a new task force that will look for ways to get sports and the creative industries back up and running. He said Normal life as we have known it is still clearly a long way off and the path to get there is a narrow one but these things will return when it is safe for them to do so. He added that the nations sports and arts industries will be reestablished with the same drive and creativity that makes a great performance or a great piece of art. He said people will appreciate them even more when they return. Dowden said there had been an additional  daily deaths as of Wednesday, taking the total UK COVID death toll to ,. Earlier, during Prime Ministers Questions, Labour Party leader Keir Starmer attacked Boris Johnson on the nations failure to adequately test care home residents, and for the continued lack of a viable track and trace system. Johnson responded by saying that Britain will launch a system in June that will boast , contact tracers able to track , new cases every day. We have growing confidence that we will have a test, track, and trace operation that will be worldbeating, Johnson insisted. Earlier in the day, Buckland, the justice secretary, insisted the nation still intends to reopen some schools on June , but conceded the government will have to listen to concerns from teaching unions and some local governments. So far, at least  local governments have expressed concern about the reopenings. And the main teachers union, the NASUWT, has said it is not even sure it is logistically possible to open by that day. A survey of , union members found only one in  thought a June  reopening of schools was safe. Buckland said on the televised morning news program BBC Breakfast that the government now accepts that some English schools, which have been closed since March , will not reopen on time. The governments of Wales, Scotland, and Northern Ireland have all said they will not reopen their schools on June . Judith Blake, the leader of Calderdale Council in West Yorkshire, said on Radio s Today program that the government must think again. Lets move away from an arbitrary date and work with our schools, she said. The government needs to understand that they need to take local factors into account. Meanwhile, the University of Cambridge has become the first UK university to say it will scrap facetoface lectures for the  to  academic year, with classes being held online instead. And aircraft engine maker RollsRoyce has announced it will cut , jobs  around a fifth of its workforce  because of damage the pandemic has done to the airline industry. That news followed Chancellor of the Exchequer Rishi Sunak admitting he is not sure the nations economy will be able to rebound quickly from the recession the nations lockdown is causing. It takes time for people to get back to the habits that they had, he told the BBC as the UK saw the number of people claiming unemployment benefit rise by , in April to . million. But, the dire economic news has, so far, not driven up inflation. The UK inflation rate fell in April to its lowest level since August , in part because stores have cut prices to try to encourage more spending. But, with the UK now urging workers who are unable to ply their trade from home to return to their workplaces, Reuters has reported that only around onethird of previously mothballed UK companies believe they will be able to fully reopen while complying with the governments social distancing rules. The British Chambers of Commerce said  percent of companies believe they will be able to partially reopen. Some  percent said they will not be able to function at all. Adam Marshall, the organizations directorgeneral, said some sectors are still waiting for the government to tell them when and how they can resume operations. This is particularly the case for hospitality and leisure companies, which will not reopen before July at the earliest, he said. The organization surveyed  companies between May  and May . And another survey shows  percent of small and mediumsized manufacturers say the pandemic has disrupted their supply chains to such an extent that they are now sourcing suppliers within the UK. The Bloomberg news agency quoted Martin Coats, managing director of the Manufacturing Growth Programme, a partner in the survey, as saying the poll of more than  English companies conducted by the South West Manufacturing Advisory Service shows COVID has brought home how reliant we have become on overseas supply of strategically critical components. The Guardian newspaper reported that large corporations will no longer be able to pass government money on to their investors. It said companies that take out loans through the governments revamped COVID bailout loan program have been told they cannot pay dividends to shareholders and that many types of payment to directors are no longer allowed. The change follows the government increasing the size of available loans, from  million pounds . million to  million pounds. Elsewhere in Europe, Andrea Ammon, director of the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control, has warned that the continent could see a second wave of novel coronavirus infections. The question is when and how big, that is the question in my view, Ammon said. Greece, meanwhile, has unveiled its muchawaited tourism plan as the nation emerges from its lockdown that includes beaches reopening. The number of confirmed cases of novel coronavirus in Russia has now passed ,, the worlds secondhighest. On Wednesday, , new reported infections took the total to ,. Spain said it has made the wearing of face masks compulsory as of Thursday for all people who cannot maintain social distancing buffers, both indoors and out.