How a carmaker became a maskmaker
2020/5/21 16:37
BYD, Chinas newenergy vehicle giant turned coronavirus warrior, said it expects to export  billion protective masks by the end of May. Photo provided to chinadaily.com.cn BYD, Chinas newenergy vehicle giant turned coronavirus warrior, said it expects to export  billion protective masks by the end of May, as it has added production lines to meet a surge in global demand. Li Wei, director of the presidents office of the company in Shenzhen, Guangdong province, said BYD masks have been delivered to  countries and regions, including Japan, Russia, Hungary, New Zealand and many more. BYD employees have been working around the clock to raise production capacity. From the end of February to May , BYD increased its daily mask production from  million to  million  tenfold growth in roughly two months  to become one of the worlds biggest mask producers. Responding to the emergency, BYD quickly changed track from cars to highquality medical masks. According to the company, from February to April, the masks were mainly offered in the domestic market. Later on, as the overseas epidemic became severe, the company shifted its focus to export masks to those areas. BYD, Chinas newenergy vehicle giant turned coronavirus warrior, said it expects to export  billion protective masks by the end of May. Photo provided to chinadaily.com.cn When it decided to produce masks in February, it finished the design plan in three days, got machines ready in seven days, produced the first batch of masks in  days, and raised the daily capacity to  million pieces in  days, the company said. BYD was able to shift production in a short period of time, largely owning to the characteristics of its sites and facilities. Automobile assembly requires dustfree, antistatic workshops. The workshops are virtually readymade for mask production after a few simple modifications, which is very effective, according to a recent report by Mingchehuitianxia, an automotive research institution. Because automobile production itself requires an extremely high degree of sophistication and a stable production process, car assembly is generally trustworthy. So its not hard for a car company to qualify for producing highend masks, the report said. Liang Yongsheng, director of the Shenzhen Technology Innovation Commission, said, Chinas industrial enterprises are now stepping up efforts to produce essential medical supplies, thus offering as much assistance as possible in the fight against the epidemic. The government, meanwhile, will continue to carry out supportive policies and concrete measures.