Tsai may sacrifice crossStraits ties to act as US puppet
2020/5/21 0:00
Tsai Ingwens inaugural address on Wednesday on her reelection as Taiwan leader had more of the same old rhetoric. And if she continues promoting her ruling Democratic Progressive Partys independence agenda, she will further strain crossStraits relations. By reiterating the principles of peace, equality, democracy and dialogue in her speech, Tsai ended up exposing her devious proindependence plan. Worse, she tried to disguise Taiwan independence by playing on the word community, which in fact is a new way of promoting her partys political agenda. And her announcement to amend the constitution reveals the island administrations plot to seek legal independence, which should sound the alarm for the Chinese mainland. Under the garb of maintaining the status quo, the Tsai administration is trying to push the Taiwan independence agenda forward, just like it did during her first term since . Tsais machinations have already destroyed the common political foundation of the two sides of the Straits, and if she continues on the same path, she will further heighten crossStraits tensions. In her address, Tsai stuck to her policy of not acknowledging the  Consensus that there is only one China. By hiding her real political motive behind noble terms such as democracy and listening to the people, Tsai could incite secessionists to take more aggressive actions to challenge Beijings bottom line and expand the DPPs international presence, while disowning the responsibility for potential conflict. Also, Koo Kwangming, a proindependence DPP activist, spared no efforts in pushing a referendum to make Taiwan a separate entity. But by doing so, secessionists like Koo are pushing the island toward a point of no return. Tsai also boasted the island has managed to virtually contain the novel coronavirus pandemic because of its democratic administrative system. Scorning Beijing and scoffing at Wuhan, at a time when the Hubei provincial capital was struggling to control the spread of the virus, the Tsai administration banned the export of face masks to the mainland during the Lunar New Year, the most important festival for the Chinese people. Let alone brotherhood, the DPP made a mockery of even humanitarianism by taking advantage of the outbreak to hit out at the mainland. Using the outbreak and the meeting of the World Health Assembly, the World Health Organizations decisionmaking body, Tsai has displayed only hostility toward the mainland in order to seek the US favor. Which makes her real motive clear helping Washington to contain Beijing even at the cost of sacrificing crossStraits relations and risking the island residents wellbeing. Since Tsai has retained almost all the officials in her administration for her second term, she is not likely to change her policy toward the mainland, and instead continue promoting the Taiwan independence agenda. By showing faux restraint in office while inciting secessionists, Tsai will pretend to be a peacemaker, so that she can seek concession under international pressure in case of a crossStraits conflict. The Tsai administrations roundabout strategy to seek Taiwan independence is reflected in its deSinicization campaign, which is aimed at changing the island residents identity as Chinese. Given the DPPs political agenda and Tsais proindependence stance, curbing separatism is the best way to ease crossStraits tensions. Despite sticking to peaceful reunification, the mainland will never compromise on national sovereignty and territorial integrity which is of core national interest to the country. For sure, the DPP will not be allowed to cross the mainlands bottom line to expand its space for international activities and seek independence. And the Tsai authorities should be held accountable if crossStraits relations deteriorate further, as the mainland will not tolerate the DPP violating national sovereignty. The author is a professor at the Institute of Taiwan Studies, Beijing Union University.The views dont necessarily represent those of China Daily. ? ? ?