UK looks to Berlin, Seoul as virus fight models
2020/5/21 0:00
The British government is keen to learn from the example set by Germany and South Korea in their handling of the novel coronavirus, the Ministry of Defences chief scientific adviser said at the daily Downing Street media update on Tuesday. On the day when it was announced that the UK death toll had passed the , mark to reach ,, Angela McLean picked out South Korea and Germany as examples to aspire to. The testing system in development, she said, was modeled on Germanys approach, and she called South Koreas contact tracing system, which uses data GPS phone tracking, surveillance camera footage and credit card transactions to trace infections, inspiring. Speaking alongside her, Environment Secretary George Eustice suggested Britons furloughed from their jobs might like to lend a hand with this years fruit harvest, because only onethird of the usual number of migrant workers are expected this year. We believe that those furloughed who may want to lend a hand or play their part, or supplement their income with an additional job, if they do feel that way I would urge them to visit that website Pick for Britain and look at the opportunities there, Eustice said. Across Europe, the coronavirus had infected ,, people and claimed , lives as of Tuesday, according to the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control. Russia reported , new cases on Wednesday, its lowest daily rise since May , taking its total infections to ,. The countrys coronavirus response center said  people had died in the latest hour period, taking the death toll to ,. Experts from the Moscow Health Department believe that blood plasma containing antibodies for the virus could be an effective treatment. More than  people in Moscow have donated blood plasma for the treatment of coronavirus patients, and  patients have been infused with blood plasma, which is used, first and foremost, to help treat critical patients, the Moscow government said on Wednesday. The Greek authorities will allow travel to and from all its islands from May , officials said on Tuesday. The decision was made as the gradual rollback of the measures implemented to contain COVID was going well, said Nikos Hardalias, deputy minister for Civil Protection and Crisis Management at the Ministry of Citizen Protection. Greece was under full lockdown from March  to May  and in the past two weeks the government has started to ease the measures. It had reported , cases and  deaths by Tuesday, health authorities said. Belgium has also eased curbs. Museums, libraries and infrastructures of cultural interest such as historical buildings have reopened with physical distancing and wearing mask measures. Contact the writers through julianmail.chinadailyuk.com. Chen Yingqun in Beijing and Xinhua contributed to this story. ? A boy walks by a model of a dinosaur with a face mask at the Museum of Natural History in Brussels, on Tuesday. VIRGINIA MAYOASSOCIATED PRESS ? ? ? ?