Tibetan antelopes start annual migration to Hoh Xil
2020/5/20 11:29
? People walk past a restaurant with We Are Open on its windows during the coronavirus disease outbreak, in Washington, May , .  As of Wednesday, all  US states will have begun lifting at least some of the restrictions imposed on daily life by the novel coronavirus. That is happening while at least  states as of Tuesday were still seeing upward trends in average new daily cases over the past week, according to data from Johns Hopkins University. Connecticut is the last state to begin to lift its original restrictions. As of Wednesday, it will nominally allow offices, outdoor dining spaces, retail stores and malls, museums and zoos to reopen with some restrictions. The state never did shut down manufacturing, outdoor construction, parks or beaches. Haircutting establishments were slated to reopen Wednesday, as well, but Governor Ned Lamont pushed back the date to June . The new reopening date aligns with Rhode Islands. Lamont said he changed the date after hearing from salon employees who said they needed more time to prepare. Well see whether people feel comfortable going back to restaurants, Lamont told CNN on Tuesday morning. Maybe there will be more takeout. The world will change. More than . million confirmed coronavirus cases have been recorded in the US, where the death toll was over , as of Tuesday, according to Johns Hopkins data. Globally, there have been more than . million confirmed infections and , deaths. The nationwide shutdowns to slow the spread of the virus are blamed for more than  million people losing their jobs since midMarch. Despite the nationwide reopening, many public health officials and some political figures continued to raise concerns that increased activity would put Americans at greater risk of a new surge of infections. Only  states have average new daily case rates that have dropped more than  percent, which public health experts say is the best guideline for determining when states can relax social distancing rules. Health experts say it could take weeks to determine if the current wave of reopenings leads to a new spike in COVID cases. On Monday, Wall Street was buoyed by news of a successful preliminary test of a vaccine for COVID by the biotech firm Moderna Inc. The companys share price rose  percent that day. On Tuesday, New York Governor Andrew Cuomo said that any vaccine to prevent the coronavirus should be distributed fairly without regard for ability to pay. The vaccine must be available to all people, Cuomo said at his daily briefing. It cant be a situation where only the rich, only the privileged can get the vaccine because one company owns the rights and they cant produce enough for everyone. Cuomo announced that the region including the state capital of Albany on Wednesday would become the seventh of  regions to start reopening after securing enough staff to trace contacts of infected people. New York City, the epicenter of the pandemic in the United States, remains under a strict lockdown. The governor said New York state would allow gatherings of up to  people for the coming Memorial Day weekend. Modernas stock closed down Tuesday by . percent after the medical website STAT reported Several vaccine experts  concluded that, based on the information made available by Moderna, theres really no way to know how impressive  or not  the vaccine may be. The Dow Jones Industrial Average dropped . points, or . percent, to close at ,. on Tuesday. The SP  fell . percent to ., while the Nasdaq Composite lost . percent and closed at .. Following President Donald Trumps announcement that he has been taking hydroxychloroquine to protect against the coronavirus, VicePresident Mike Pence told Fox News he has not joined Trump in taking the drug, which the US Food and Drug Administration has warned about as a COVID treatment. Trump told reporters during a visit to the Capitol on Tuesday that he believes hydroxychloroquine gives you an additional level of safety, adding People are going to have to make up their own mind. Trump also sparked controversy over his plans to visit a Ford plant in Michigan on Thursday that manufactures medical ventilators. The company had reiterated its policy Tuesday that all visitors to its plants must wear masks. Asked whether he will wear a mask when he visits Ford, Trump said that where its appropriate, I would do it. The decision depends on the situation and if he standing right next to everybody, he added. Ford issued a revised statement that signaled it may allow Trump to not wear a mask. Our policy is that everyone wears PPE personal protective equipment to prevent the spread of COVID, Ford spokeswoman Rachel McCleery said Tuesday. The White House has its own safety and testing policies in place and will make its own determination. Reuters contributed to this story.