India sees cases soar as curbs loosened
2020/5/20 9:46
An aerial photo of the Shenzhen River and urban vista in Shenzhen, Guangdong province, on Jan , .  Shenzhen has played an important role in the countrys fight against the coronavirus pandemic by taking advantage of its edge in technology, and it will continue to develop that strength, a senior official in charge of the citys technological innovation said. The city has contributed strength and wisdom in helping Guangdong province and even the whole country deal with the pandemic, Liang Yongsheng, director of the Shenzhen Technology Innovation Commission, said at a news conference on Tuesday. The city allocated  million yuan  million in special technology funds to encourage scientific research and development related to pandemic prevention and control and to offer incentives encouraging researchers to make breakthroughs in science. A number of research and development achievements and applications have won high praise from the World Health Organization, the countrys regulators and media both at home and overseas, Liang said. We will continue to take measures to promote the healthy development of various innovative players and take full advantage of technology to contribute Shenzhens strength to the fight against the coronavirus with a forwardlooking vision and pragmatic moves, he said. Lyu Jiancheng, deputy head of the Shenzhen Institutes of Advanced Technology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, said the pandemic underscores the importance of developing a highend medical equipment industry. There is also an urgent need for the country to push forward with domestic manufacturing, Lyu added. Last month, the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology approved the establishment of a national highperformance medical apparatus and innovative instruments center in Shenzhen. It was the countrys first nationallevel innovation center in the medical device sector. Lyu added that the ability to solve problems with the help of technology in face of major health threat is the most important thing that researchers need to focus on. Apart from science, Shenzhens enterprises have also played an active role in the process. Electric car maker BYD quickly shifted to the production of masks as the coronavirus spread like wildfire. The company managed to produce?five million masks a day within a day span, making it one of the worlds largest suppliers. Biotech company BGI has set up coronavirus testing laboratories in  Chinese cities, with the ability to test , people per day. Medical equipment provider Mindray has provided more than , medical devices globally since the end of January, with more than , of those transported overseas.