Refugee issue seen as big challenge for EU
2020/5/20 9:06
Suwon Samsung Bluewings Doneil Henry on the ground tackles Jeonbuk Hyundai Motors Han Kyowon during the opening game of South Koreas KLeague at Jeonju World Cup Stadium on May . The league had been originally scheduled to start on Feb  but finally kicked off this month, three days after the first pitch was thrown in the countrys professional baseball competition. AP Delayed season comes at right time for journeyman defender Doneil Henry Doneil Henry is making the most of being Canadas pioneer in South Koreas topflight soccer league. The yearold defender is a starter for the KLeagues Suwon Samsung Bluewingsone of the first teams around the world to return to action during the pandemic. Its definitely an experience. I am enjoying it ... Im happy, Henry, a former member of Major League Soccers Toronto FC and Vancouver Whitecaps, told Canadian Press on Friday. So far, so good. Its all positive. Henry started in two AFC Champions League gamesa  home loss to Japans Vissel Kobe on Feb  and a  loss at Malaysias Johor Darul Tazim on March before the KLeague opener at an empty ,seat stadium on May . It was almost like a closeddoor training session, Henry said of the match that was televised worldwide on social media feeds. Although there werent people in the stadium, we knew there were people watching. Honestly, I was just very hungry and couldnt wait to get back on the pitch and be playing some meaningful games. Henry and his teammates have a fever check the day before and immediately before the start of matches. Only the  players selected are allowed in the stadium, with substitutes required to wear masks. The Bluewings finished eighth at  last season but qualified for the  AFC Champions League group stage as Korean FA Cup winnersand the quality of play has made a deep impression on the Canadian. I think the players here are very sharp and technical and very direct. They play very, very fast, said Henry. Thats something that Im not used to. I like to slow down the game, taking it in spurts where you can change the tempo of the match. Whereas they are always full out,  percent. And unlike Major League Soccer, there are no designated players in KLeague, which encourages parity. The designatedplayer rule, nicknamed the Beckham Rule in reference to the LA Galaxys former superstar David, allows MLS franchises to sign up to three players considered outside the teams salary cap, either by offering higher wages or by paying a transfer fee. I want to be valued wherever I play, Henry said. I didnt feel like I was getting that in MLS, so basically it was my time to go. I always had in my head that if anything pops up and I can go back to Europe, Im gone. I just want to go where Im getting the exposure that I need, because I have a bittersweet taste in my mouth about how everything ended in Europe. Because of lots of injuries, I didnt get a chance to fully show myself. Henry joined the English Premier Leagues West Ham in January  after playing  games for Toronto, with his last matches for the Hammers coming while he was on loan from Cypriot side Apollon Limassol. Three surgeries in less than three years, including a longterm knee injury, limited his action in Europe with Blackburn Rovers and Denmarks AC Horsens before joining Vancouver in . He played  games for the Whitecaps. There were opportunities to return to Europe before the pandemic took hold, but Henry opted to remain in South Korea. Even though everything was open, it was like you didnt want to go outside. Especially for myself, for a lot of time I didnt know where I should go, what I should do, he said. Henry flew back to Canada in early March and went through selfquarantine, ahead of Team Canadas training camp and two friendlies against Trinidad and Tobago on March  and , but when those matches were called off he had to go through selfquarantine again when he returned to South Korea. Everythings been classy, everybodys been good, he said. The club has been really good taking care of us.