Bundesligas behindcloseddoors restart leaves players feeling empty
2020/5/20 0:05
File photo?personal protection equipment.  A total of , PPE personal protection equipment items donated by students in China found their way into various Texas hospitals in Houston, Dallas and College Station on Monday. The donation was organized by International Leadership Texas ILTEXAS, a public charter school system with , primary and secondary school students. Matilda Orozco, ILTEXAS Houston area superintendent, and ILTEXAS instructional coach Zhang Hui delivered , masks and , gloves to the hospital HCA Houston Healthcare West. One of ILTEXASs missions is to prepare our students for exceptional leadership roles and for international community emphasizing English, Spanish and Chinese. Part of what our students do in our school is others before self projects, Orozco said of the donation. Students in all  of ILTEXASs schools raised money for China when the pandemic first hit there, said Orozco. When the second time comes around and the pandemic hit the US, students in our sister school in China raised money to buy masks and gloves for our students here in the United States, Orozco continued. For the occasion, she read some writings from Chinese students to the American students We are facing the crisis. Everybody needs help no matter where we are, one Chinese student wrote. Roses given and fragrance in hands, this moment the only thing we can do is to keep ourselves safe and healthy. I believe the virus cannot destroy us, another student wrote. Said Orozco At this time, the most important thing we can do is to help each other out and be there for each other. Students from China took part in the donation ceremony via video. Megan Marietta, the CEO of HCA Houston Healthcare West, accepted the gift on behalf of the hospital. We have been treating COVID patients at the facility, she said. This is a wonderful gift, and its wonderful to see students focus on serving and leadership at such a young age. This will serve our employees and our staff at the facility. It made it more special that the donation is from China. In Dallas, ILTEXAS representatives delivered , masks and , gloves to Parkland Memorial Hospital. A hospital in College Station received , masks and , gloves.