Exporters urged to adjust to global demands
2020/5/20 0:00
US automakers took the first steps to resuming production on Monday amid continued concern for worker safety and a tattered national economy thats likely to undercut demand for new cars. Many plants in Michigan and across the nation began with reduced shifts and, in some cases, fewer workers per shift after being closed for about eight weeks due to the coronavirus pandemic. Full production may not resume for several weeks, or perhaps months, officials said. Worker safety is the immediate concern as production resumed at General Motors, Ford and Fiat Chrysler. But analysts expect automakers to build significantly fewer cars this year, cutting revenue. We have made it crystal clear to the companies that the health and safety of our members must be the top priority as we plan for the restart of our economy, said Rory Gamble, president of the ,member United Auto Workers, or UAW. In terms of testing, I have said to all of our employers that we expect a commitment from them for full testing as soon as it is possible. Until then, we expect as much testing as is possible to be conducted. Honda and Toyota resumed US production last week. Daimler, BMW and Hyundai restarted production in the last few weeks. Chinas experience Resumption of production will test the new health and safety guidelines that automakers have developed in conjunction with the UAW. Many of the new safety procedures are built on Chinas experience and appear to work well. Weve been working intently with state and federal governments, our union partners and a crosssection of our workforce to reopen our North American facilities, said Jim Farley, Fords chief operating officer. We have reopened our facilities in China, successfully begun our phased restart in Europe, and have been producing medical equipment in Michigan for more than six weeks. And are using the lessons from all of that to ensure we are taking the right precautions to help keep our workforce here safe, he said. The safety guidelines mandate the use of masks, social distancing and frequent handsanitizing. Plexiglas barriers have been installed, safe distances have been marked on the floor, and workers are sent home if they feel ill or if they believe theyve been exposed to the virus. Ford provides wristwatches that beep when two employees are less than  feet apart. The watches may help with contact tracing if an infection is identified. Worker safety is the immediate concern, but customer demand in the stalled economy is a longrange problem for the auto industry. Automakers are expected to produce about  million vehicles in the US this year, the lowest number since , according to LMC Automotive, a Detroitbased industry research firm. The company sees a drop of approximately  million units from China, North America and Western Europe each, accounting for more than twothirds of the entire volume reduction. Reduced production means fewer hours for autoworkers and suppliers. In the US, about . million people have filed unemployment claims in the last two months. The unemployment rate is . percent and almost certain to go higher. scottreeveschinadailyusa.com ? ? ?