Japan set for deepest recession since war
2020/5/20 0:00
TOKYOJapans economy shrank for a second straight quarter in the JanuaryMarch period and entered a technical recession, putting the nation on course for its deepest postwar slump as the coronavirus crisis ravages businesses and consumers. The worlds thirdlargest economy contracted an annualized . percent in the first quarter, preliminary official GDP data showed, less than a median market forecast for a . percent drop. Japanese Economic Revitalization Minister Yasutoshi Nishimura said on Monday that the downside effects of the coronavirus pandemic on Japans economy are expected to get worse. The economy will slow down to a considerable extent for the time being, Nishimura said. Meanwhile, Japanese doctors on the front line of the COVID pandemic face tough working conditions, with many reusing masks and few getting hazard pay, a survey by a labor union showed. The survey found  percent of doctors reusing N respirator masks, which are essential for protecting healthcare workers from contagion and are meant to be discarded after one use. As of Tuesday morning, Japan had reported , cases and  deaths. PPE donations In Myanmar, Chinas CITIC Group on Tuesday donated protective equipment for the fight against COVID in the town of Kyaukpyu town in Rakhine state, including , medical masks,  pieces of personal protective equipment and  face shields. The local facility quarantine centers are in need of such medical supplies and this donation will be a great help in the COVID fight, said U Aye San, a member of a donation committee in Kyaukpyu. In the Middle East, Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan on Monday announced a fourday lockdown in all  provinces in the country over May , which coincides with Eid alFitr, a Muslim feast marking the end of the holy month of Ramadan. The total infections in Turkey rose to , on Monday, while the death toll surged to ,. Meanwhile, Israeli researchers have found that more than  percent of the coronavirus patients in the country had been infected with a strain originating in the United States, Tel Aviv University said on Monday. The study was based on a largescale genomic sequencing of the novel coronavirus strain, comparing the genomic sequences of  local patients to some , genomic sequences taken from patients worldwide. In the Pacific region, children in New South Wales, Australias most populous state, will return to school fulltime next week, a major step toward normalizing life amid the coronavirus pandemic, as the nation on Tuesday recorded its th fatality from the disease. Australias states and territories are beginning to allow more public activity under a threestep federal government plan to end two months of shutdowns. Xinhua  Agencies