Demonizing China no way to fight against the pandemic
2021/8/11 7:27
Three Chinese think tanks have jointly released a report on the United States fight against the COVID pandemic. Unlike a Bloomberg report in June that gave the US top COVIDresilience ranking, the think tanks report, which was released on Monday, said the US fight against the pandemic has been a failure. The US ranks first in the think tanks report, too, but in aspects such as failing to control the pandemic, passing the buck, and spreading the disinformation virus. Those following how the novel coronavirus pandemic has affected lives around the world will know which ranking is reliable. On Aug , the US saw , new infections, the highest since February. By Monday, when the think tanks report was released, the total numbers of infections and deaths in the US had crossed . million, and , respectively. Do those who gave the US top ranking for fighting COVID have a conscience? Despite their failure to contain the pandemic, US politicians have been hyping up the virus origin tracing issue in order to demonize China. It is they who have put their selfish interests above everything else, and even debated on issues such as whether wearing a face mask or getting a jab is necessary. Worse, they have been spreading false information about the virus, misleading and pressuring international organizations to conduct a second virus origin tracing investigation in China, thus weakening the global efforts to prevent another pandemic in the future. As for the US Federal Reserve, its easy money policy has led to high inflation in some economies, making the lives of people more difficult. Hours before the think tanks report was released, US National Institutes of Health Director Francis Collins said on ABCs This Week, Yes, we are failing. These are the people who know what is really happening in the US. It is time US politicians faced the facts and took measures to save lives, instead of turning a blind eye to the grim situation in the US and continuing to politicize the virus.