people to climb to peak of Mount Qomolangma
2020/5/19 13:58
Team members are seen at the advance camp at an altitude of , meters on Mount Qomolangma, May , . A Chinese mountaineering team on Monday released a list of  people, including two surveyors, who will climb to the peak of Mount Qomolangma. If everything goes smoothly, they will arrive at the peak on May  to conduct surveys in gravity, global navigation satellite systems, weather and depths of ice and snow. Chen Gang and Wang Wei, both of whom are surveyors from the Ministry of Natural Resources, are on the list. If either of them manages to arrive at the peak, it will set a record for Chinese surveyors setting foot on the worlds highest mountain peak, according to the team. The names of a support squad and a backup squad were also released on Monday.  Team members are seen at the advance camp at an altitude of , meters on Mount Qomolangma, May , .  Team members gather for the announcement of a list who will climb to the peak of Mount Qomolangma at the advance camp at an altitude of , meters on Mount Qomolangma, May , .  Wang Wei, a surveyor from the Ministry of Natural Resources, practices using oxygen mask at an altitude of , meters on Mount Qomolangma, May , . Wang Wei L, a surveyor from the Ministry of Natural Resources, practices using oxygen mask at an altitude of , meters on Mount Qomolangma, May , . Team leader Tselok L is seen at the gathering for the announcement of a list who will climb to the peak of Mount Qomolangma at the advance camp at an altitude of , meters on Mount Qomolangma, May , .  Team members gather for the announcement of a list who will climb to the peak of Mount Qomolangma at the advance camp at an altitude of , meters on Mount Qomolangma, May , .  Team members gather for the announcement of a list who will climb to the peak of Mount Qomolangma at the advance camp at an altitude of , meters on Mount Qomolangma, May , .  Team members gather for the announcement of a list who will climb to the peak of Mount Qomolangma at the advance camp at an altitude of , meters on Mount Qomolangma, May , .  Chen GangR, a surveyor from the Ministry of Natural Resources, practices using oxygen mask at an altitude of , meters on Mount Qomolangma, May , . 