Chinese students donate PPE to US hospitals through Texas school
2020/5/19 11:17
Representatives from International Leadership of Texas ILTexas Houston area and HCA Houston Healthcare West pose for a group photo at the donation handover ceremony in Houston of Texas, the United States, May , .  HOUSTON  Personal protective equipment PPE from China was donated to hospitals and health centers in the US state of Texas on Monday. The donation, , masks and , gloves, was dropped off in local hospitals in the Houston and Dallas areas where medical workers are striving to save COVID patients lives on the frontline. Organized by International Leadership of Texas ILTexas, a free public charter school with many locations throughout Texas, the donation was purchased with the fund raised by the students from IL Texas sister schools in China. On Monday morning, , masks and , gloves were donated to the HCA Houston Healthcare West. IL Texas Houston area Superintendent Matilda Orozco told Xinhua at the ceremony that the school raised money for China a few months ago when China was seriously impacted by COVID. This time, its sister school students raised money to buy PPE for medical facilities in the United States. That is who we are. Its about others before self. And during this time, thats the most important thing we got to think about is helping each other out and being there for each other, said Orozco, adding that students from China also sent warm wishes and encouraging poems to American students of ILTexas. A staff member of International Leadership of Texas ILTexas Houston area carries the donation to HCA Houston Healthcare West in Houston of Texas, the United States, May , .? Representing the hospitals to receive the PPE, Megan Marietta, CEO of HCA Houston Healthcare West, said this was the first donation they received from China which made it more special. I think this is a wonderful gift. Its wonderful to see students focused on servant leadership at such a young age. And this will certainly help our employees and our staff here at the facility, she said. ILTexas opened its first school in  with over , students, making it the largest firstyear charter in the history of Texas. Since , the district has grown from two schools in North Texas to  schools with more than , students across north and south Texas. ILTexas has close ties to China. It operates sister schools in China. ILTexas, with a trilingual curriculum of English, Spanish and Mandarin Chinese, employs many Chinese teachers and educates Chinese international students. School students and administrators are finding new and different ways to prove global leadership begins right here at home. We are all in this together, read the schools press release for the donation.