Disneys streaming chief Mayer to become TikTok CEO
2020/5/19 10:05
A woman and her baby wait for a bus to take them to a railway station to board a train to their home state of Uttar Pradesh, after a limited reopening of Indias giant rail network following a nearly sevenweek lockdown to slow the spreading of the COVID, in Ghaziabad in the outskirts of New Delhi, India, May , .  NEW DELHIIndia has recorded its biggest singleday surge in coronavirus cases as the country entered a new phase of a nationwide lockdown to contain the pandemic. The Ministry of Home Affairs on Sunday issued fresh guidelines for a lockdown that has been extended till May , announcing some relaxations like the opening of stadiums and other sports complexes but without spectators. The measures came into force on Monday. The guidelines also allow the interstate movement of vehicles but with the mutual consent of the states and the movement of essential goods, while restaurants can offer home deliveries. The country saw , new cases on Monday, taking its total to more than ,. The death toll rose by  to ,. In the Middle East, the Iraqi Health Ministry on Sunday recorded  new cases, the highest daily increase, as Baghdad for the first time logged more than  cases. Earlier that day, Health Minister Hassan alTamimi said the health authorities have doubled the number of tests in several districts that have seen high numbers of infections. Yemens health authorities on Sunday recorded six new infections, taking the total confirmed cases in the governmentcontrolled areas of the warravaged Arab country to . The death toll climbed to  in areas of the governmentcontrolled provinces, including the southern port city of Aden and the southeastern province of Hadramout. Elsewhere in Yemen, health authorities in the Houthi rebelheld capital Sanaa on Saturday declared two new cases in the areas under their control, taking the total number of infections in northern Yemen to four, including one death. In Turkey, senior citizens were allowed to leave their homes for a second time during the countrys outbreak, as it continues to ease some coronavirus restrictions. People above the age group most at risk of COVIDcan be outside for six hours on Sundays, but their lockdown on other days continues. The health minister urged them to wear masks and practice social distance. The latest statistics from the health ministry put the confirmed infections in Turkey at , and the death toll at ,. Contacttracing app In the Pacific region, New Zealand will launch a contacttracing app on Wednesday to help people track their movements as the country eases one of the worlds most rigid lockdowns to slow the spread of COVID. Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern said the app can be best described as a digital diary helping people to record their personal movements, adding the data would not be shared with anyone else besides the user. The country reported no new cases on Monday. The number of new daily cases has been falling steadily over the past few weeks since reaching a peak in early April. In Africa, South Africa will assign levels of lockdown restrictions for each of the countrys roughly  districts, depending on the number of active coronavirus infections there, Health Minister Zweli Mkhize said on Thursday. The National Coronavirus Command Council, the government body overseeing efforts to contain the virus, will review the restrictions for each district every two weeks, said Mkhize, adding that the country was moving away from a one size fits all approach. South Africa has recorded  coronavirus deaths, with , confirmed cases. Xinhua  Agencies