Chinese victims of hate crime urged to report to UK police
2020/5/19 8:24
Shennongjias green mountains stand among mist.Photo provided to China Daily Attractions in the province most affected by COVID are gradually reopening while employing strict infectionprevention measures, Xu Lin and Liu Kun report. The tourism industry in Hubei, the province hit hardest by COVID in China, is gradually recovering. Scenic areas, museums and hotels have been actively marketing themselves through livestreams and short videos. Theyre also offering discounts for visitors with extra consumption coupons provided by the government. Travelers must make reservations so that attractions can limit visitor numbers in real time. They must also present their health QR codes and undergo temperature checks at the entrances. And theyre required to wear masks and practice social distancing. Dining facilities require customers to eat separately and use serving chopsticks. Hubeis Shennongjia National Park reopened its scenic areas on March  with daily visitor numbers limited at  percent or less of its capacity. Shennongjia is known as a natural oxygen bar. This is typically its peak visitor season because of the blooming flowers and good weather. Visitor volumes are recovering, Shennongjias culture and tourism bureaus deputy director Ming Lei says. Visitors enjoy the unique fauna and flora. Many ride horses, practice archery and see cute spotted deer. Wuhans landmark Yellow Crane Tower.Photo provided to China Daily Many visitors drive themselves. Most are from Hubei, especially Wuhan, Yichang and Xiangyang cities. Some independent travelers arrive by motorcycle or bicycle, he says. The park received over , visits between the reopening and May , a  percent decrease over the same period last year. Before May , travelers could visit Shennongjias six scenic areas for free. From May  until June , visitors can buy a ticket for all these zones at the reduced price of  yuan . Yichangs Tribe of the Three Gorges scenic area has suspended its indoor performances and closed a cave that contains narrow spaces. Tourists can still enjoy openair performances of ethnic Tujia wedding ceremonies and folkculture shows. Were cooperating with online influencers to market the scenic spot Its an efficient way to promote the stunning scenery and cultural items that tourists like to buy as souvenirs, says Qu Jiachun, assistant to the general manager of the company that runs the scenic area. Tourists have their temperatures taken at the entrance of Yichangs Tribe of the Three Gorges scenic area.Photo provided to China Daily He hopes greater government support and media exposure can accelerate the tourism industrys recovery. The province hosts such resources as magnificent landscapes and ethnic culture. And its central location ensures convenient transportation to other places across China. These advantages can support local tourisms revival, he believes. Wuhans tourism recovery started later than other cities in the province because of its situation during the epidemic. Its landmark Yellow Crane Tower reopened on April , with indoor areas remaining closed. The site received around , visitors during the fiveday May Day holiday. About half were annualmembershipcard holders or enjoyed free admission, such as medical workers and people older than . The number is nearly  percent of the same period last year. Most visitors are locals. Many are in their s and s, and bring their children to enjoy the outdoors. Our current visitor numbers are still low because most people feel uncertain about going out, says Wang Hongnian, head of marketing of the towers management. Shennongjia National Park features blooming flowers.Photo provided to China Daily Tourists can visit the corridors of the .meterhigh tower, and the halls of each floor will reopen incrementally, since theyre well ventilated. The attraction will also be meticulously disinfected. In April, the Yellow Crane Tower started to ask staff members to host livestreams showing the attractions views and introduce its history. Each averaged over  million views. Netizens across the country are interested in the historical tower and comment that they want to visit in the future. The livestreams also enable some locals to learn more about the tower and entice them to visit, she says. But the key is to make visitors feel safe Theres still a long way to go. She expects numbers will recover gradually until September, when the fall semester begins. The towers fifth floor offers marvelous birdseye views of the city, including the bridges that span the Yangtze River. My favorite is watching the sunset. Visitors to the tower can also head to nearby Hubuxiang to enjoy local snacks and stroll through the Tanhualin historical and cultural block. Or they can hop a ferry across the Yangtze to explore Hankou district. The citys indoor attractions, such as the Hubei Provincial Museum, remain closed. Hubei was part of the powerful Chu kingdom during the Spring and Autumn Period  BC and the Warring States Period  BC. Our online exhibitions and livestreams promote Chu culture and history, and its peoples strong spirit and character, says the museums curator, Fang Qin. The Tribe of the Three Gorges scenic area attracts tourists with its natural views and ethnic culture.Photo provided to China Daily The internet offers new opportunities to popularize museum culture, and we should continue to use this approach. Chinese travel agencies interprovincial and outbound services remain suspended. CTG Travel resumed its business in Hubei on April . Its packages offering attraction tickets and accommodation are popular among travelers who drive themselves. The company also organizes smallgroup tours. Buses are regularly disinfected, and at least half of seats are required to be unoccupied. Wuhans authorities initiated ongoing testing of all residents after new cases of COVID were diagnosed, raising concerns over its tourism recovery. The new cases will affect Wuhans tourism and interprovincial travel in the short term. But over the long term, the influence will ebb as confidence in the market is gradually restored, says Yan Qi, whos in charge of CTG Travels business in Wuhan. China Tourism Academy associate research fellow Zhan Dongmei says Hubeis tourism industry, especially Wuhans, is recovering at a slower pace than its counterparts. But shes confident itll catch up over time. Chinese, and especially people from Hubei now, tend to postpone their travel plans because of safety concerns, she says. The epidemic may have influenced their psychology. Tourism players should be patient and prepare for the recovery during this period in such ways as developing products that appeal to visitors.