Thailand prolongs travel ban Indian infections rise
2020/5/19 0:00
Chinese construction companies operating in Kenya have been in the forefront in supporting the fight against COVID, which has so far infected  people and killed  in the country. Africa Star Railway Operation Co, a subsidiary of China Road and Bridge Corp that is responsible for operations of Kenyas standard gauge railway passenger and freight services, has followed the imposed measures to curb the spread of the disease while also ensuring the efficient transportation of needed medical supplies. Aside from transporting the normal cargo, the company has increased the transportation of bulk grain, epidemic prevention materials and other necessities. Around  Twentyfoot Equivalent Units of epidemic prevention materialsa TEU is a measure of cargo capacityand  TEUs of bulk grain were transported via the standard gauge railway, contributing greatly to economic development and epidemic prevention in Kenya. Olivia Mengich, spokeswoman for Africa Star Railway Operation Co, said that since the coronavirus outbreak, the company has strictly complied with the nations curfew policy as well as restrictions on movement in several counties. Each cargo train is equipped with an additional coach for isolation and antiepidemic materials such as hand sanitizers, gun thermometers, protective gloves, masks, protective clothing and goggles, among others, Mengich said. She said any passengers who have a fever or are suspected of being infected are taken to an isolation coach. The company strives to achieve the goal of zero infection by distributing protective equipment to employees, organizing training, and disinfecting living quarters and workplaces, Mengich said. She added that the company has overcome such challenges as fewer available employees, greater epidemic prevention measures and threat of infection by cooperating with partners in order to comply with the governments directives and meet the requirements of cargo owners. Adhering to the principle of guaranteeing transportation efficiency and quality, we adopted many measures, including adjusting personnel organization and changing the shift system, Mengich said. The company also increased workloads of all its onduty employees, sending managerial staff to work on the front line and organizing the overtime inspection and maintenance of equipment, to ensure successful epidemic prevention and transportation and production safety. Kenyan staff members in key positions have remained on duty following the suspension of passenger trains. We look forward to the early end of the COVID epidemic. Once its over, our company will carry out normal passenger and freight transportation services according to the requirements of the government and Kenya Railways, Mengich said. China Communications Construction Co has also ensured that its employees are well protected against the coronavirus at its Lamu Port construction project. Employee Alfred Mitei expressed gratitude for the measures taken by the company to ensure that construction works goes on despite the coronavirus pandemic, and that employees are well protected. The movement of people in and out of the project site has been stopped, so we cannot be infected we are safe, Mitei said. The company has provided hand soaps and sanitizers, and all employees are required to wear masks. Sinohydro Corp, which is working on  construction projects in Kenya, has also been diligent in observing the measures imposed by the government while ensuring that work continues despite the pandemic. We are trying our best to protect our employees. We check employees body temperature on a daily basis and provide them with sanitizers and face masks. We have also directed the staff to keep social distancing throughout, said Benjamin Nie, marketing director for Sinohydro. In April, the company donated , face masks,  medical goggles and , medical gloves valued at around , to the Kenyan government through the Chinese embassy in Kenya. edithmutethyachinadaily.com.cn