trillion emergency bill likely to die in US Senate
2020/5/18 10:44
Countries take it slowly as rises in deaths and cases begin to ease ? Boys play football in Virgiliano Park, as the country begins a staged end to a nationwide lockdown due to the coronavirus disease COVID, in Naples, Italy, May , .  ROMEItalian Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte outlined a further loosening of movement restrictions on Saturday, including opening borders to travelers from Europe from next month to unwind one of the worlds most rigid coronavirus lockdowns. With shops, bars and restaurants due to reopen from Monday, the government has also announced that people will no longer have to justify travel within their own region and will be able to meet friends and family. The announcements came as the daily increase of deaths in Italy, the third highest in the world, fell to  on Saturday, the lowest since March . All travel curbs will be lifted from June  and travelers from European Union countries will be able to enter without going into quarantine, offering some hope before the summer to the vital tourism sector. In Spain, the government will seek to extend its state of emergency one last time until late June, Prime Minister Pedro Sanchez said on Saturday. The path that we are taking is the only one possible, Sanchez told a news conference, saying he would ask parliament for an extension of about a month when most of the nation should be returning to normality. Spain first decreed a state of emergency on March . Officials said that while the outbreak has been brought largely under control, restrictions must stay in place a bit longer as the lockdown is gradually phased out. The country have reported  new deaths on Sunday, the lowest daily count since March . Confirmed cases climbed to ,. Safety concerns In Britain, more deaths were reported on Friday, as education officials addressed the safety concerns over the phased reopening of primary schools in England starting from June . Pupils in Reception, Year  and Year  will be allowed to return to schools in England on June , according to Education Secretary Gavin Williamson. The government would be deploying track and tracing with students and school staff to prevent any dramatic rise of cases, and policies such as reduced class sizes, keeping children in small groups and rigorous hygiene will be implemented when schools reopen, Williamson said. The government recognizes the important role education plays in pupils lives, he said, adding that reopening schools benefits the children not just educationally, but physically and emotionally as well. However, teachers unions have called for more answers from the government about the safety of reopening primary schools after a meeting with the governments chief scientific advisers on Friday. As of Saturday morning, , people had tested positive for the virus in the country, and , had died. Mountaineers wearing face masks board a cable car to the Aiguille du Midi peak in Chamonix, in France, on Saturday. PHILIPPE DESMAZESAGENCE FRANCEPRESSE In France,  new deaths from COVID were registered on Saturday, fewer than the previous periods, as the country eased from a twomonth lockdown. Both numbers, key indicators for the French health systems ability to cope with the pandemic, have fallen for four to five weeks and peaked at more than , and more than , respectively in early to midApril. As of Saturday, the country had , confirmed cases. In Greece, shopping malls, diet centers, zoos and botanical gardens will reopen on Monday with cautious steps, as the country continues to ease its anticoronavirus restrictions. Restaurants and cafes will be open for business again on May , a week earlier than initially planned. Xinhua  Agencies