Energizing transportation cleanly across the world
2020/5/18 9:10
A BYD employee works on the assembly line of the companys new energy vehicle factory in Xian, Shaanxi province, on Feb .  BYDs electric vehicles, face mask sales create winning combination in very testing times In the normal course, BYD Co Ltd functions as a new energy vehicle manufacturer. In extraordinary circumstances like, say, a period of pandemic, it can transform itself into a global communityoriented force. BYD demonstrated its flexibility and commitment to community during the ongoing fight against COVID. It churned out medical masks to not only satisfy domestic demand but serve the rest of the world. As the disease evolved into a pandemic and global demand for masks soared, the Shenzhen, Guangdong provincebased automobile maker morphed into a producer of medical protection gear. By May , the daily production capacity of BYDs selfdeveloped medical masks had reached  million pieces. As the situation improved in China, the company shifted its focus to other countries in need. In early April, BYD received an order from Japanese tech giant SoftBank. According to the company, the order is being delivered this month. Our employees are now working round the clock to increase the mask production capacity, hoping to offer more assistance in the worlds fight against the epidemic, said Li Yunfei, spokesman of BYD. As for its main line of business, BYD commands a market share of more than  percent in Europes pure electric bus segment, ranking first among its peers. So far, BYD had received accumulated orders of more than , pure ebuses in over  cities across more than  European countries. The cities include Amsterdam, London, Brussels, Oslo, and Turin, just to name a few. Back in January , BYDs Europe branch was established in Rotterdam in the Netherlands. The branch focused on providing local customers with the companys new energy products including new energy vehicles, rechargeable batteries, solar panels, energy storage systems and rail transit system. It also offered aftersales services. Over  years later, BYDs pure ebuses accounted for the highest market share in the European market. Its pure etaxis were also seen everywhere. BYD entered the United States market in . In , it set up its North American head office in Los Angeles. Two years later, its pure ebus factory was established in Lancaster, California. Currently, the companys business in the American market covers the US, Canada, Brazil, Chile, Mexico, Columbia, Ecuador and Uruguay. Its product portfolio includes cars, forklifts, trucks, buses, and taxis. BYDs green footprint spans the AsiaPacific region, Africa and the Middle East. Speaking of the secret behind BYDs success overseas, Li said the company has always driven technology innovation, which in turn drives the companys development. We have been constantly increasing the investment in research and development. Facing surging opportunities in the new energy industry, the company actively carried out various businesses. With vertical integration of the entire industry chain and other advantages, we have opened up a sustainable innovation development path for Chinese private enterprises, he said. In midMarch, even as the pandemic spread across the world, the company announced the launch of FinDreams, a new subbrand that specializes in core component production for ecofriendly electric vehicles. The subbrand enjoys more autonomy and is expected to help the company expand the reach of its electric vehicles to consumers around the world. Shi Jinman, an automobile analyst at Guotai Junan Securities, said The establishment of the independent brand benefits the company as the move makes it easier to reach more clients overseas. In addition, the overseas subsidiaries can work more efficiently on making decisions such as building local plants, and take advantage of BYDs digital channels to boost global expansion.