Friendship first, competition second
2021/8/10 9:50
Even amid the intensity of battle on the worlds biggest stage, the Olympic spirit was alive and well in Tokyo. Perhaps it was because the shadow of the pandemic hung over the Games that athletes sportsmanship, goodwill and consideration for their fellow competitors at times seemed to eclipse the fight for medals and glory. Chinese athletes contributed their fair share of touching moments, as ever conducting themselves with dignity and decorum, but also letting their emotional guard down on occasion to show their caring sides, even with the stakes so high. Team China athletes were also on the receiving end of many heartwarming gestures from their foreign rivals, some of whom put aside the pain of defeat to pay tribute to their opponents. As we say in China Friendship first, competition second. Oksana Chusovitina of Uzbekistan is embraced by Orabi Bader, physiotherapist for Israel, after performing on the vault in Tokyo, on July , .  Emotional farewell Eighttime Olympian Oksana Chusovitina received a standing ovation as she walked out of the gymnastics arena in her last Games in Tokyo. I cried tears of happiness because so many people have supported me for a long time, she said. Chusovitinas Olympic journey began in , competing for the Unified Team of the former Soviet Union. She has also represented Germany and her native Uzbekistan. When Chusovitinas yearold son was diagnosed with leukemia in , she sold her possessions and used her prize money to pay for his lifesaving treatment. At the age of , Chusovitina competed against gymnasts her sons age in Tokyo. Gold medallist Gong Lijiao of China wearing a protective face mask poses on the podium with silver medallist Raven Saunders of the United States and bronze medallist Valerie Adams of New Zealand wearing protective face masks in Tokyo, on Aug , .  Putting it in perspective Shot putters Gong Lijiao and Valerie Adams have battled it out at major championships for years. Chinas Gong finally got her hands on Olympic gold in Tokyo, with New Zealands twotime champion Adams this time having to settle for bronze. After Gong stepped down from the podium, Adams gave the yearold a big hug, and later paid a glowing tribute to her longtime rival. I have competed against Lijiao at many, many Games, shes a great competitor, said Adams. I think we are competitors but also friends. I also have a lot of respect for Lijiao, and today she has produced an amazing performance and done China proud. Simone Biles of the United States congratulates Guan Chenchen of China after competing in Tokyo, on Aug , .  Idol encounter Teenager Guan Chenchen won Chinas third artistic gymnastics gold by beating her idol, Simone Biles, in the womens balance beam, while her teammate Tang Xijing won silver. For Guan, simply participating in the Olympics was a dream come true. Actually, Biles has been my role model. I did not expect to win over her in my Olympic debut in Tokyo, said the yearold. Biles and her US teammate Sunisa Lee made a point of approaching Guan to congratulate the young Chinese star on her triumph. Lee later posted a photo of herself and Guan on social media, accompanied by the message Im so proud. Liu Shiwen of China is seen in action during Table Tennis Mixed Doubles semifinal in Tokyo, on July , .  Forever friends Chinese table tennis star Liu Shiwen endured a difficult Olympics in Tokyo. The  Rio champion missed out on gold in the mixed doubles final, and then was forced to quit the Games due to an elbow injury. The yearold, though, was inundated with messages of encouragement from fans and friends. Among those offering support was retired Japanese paddler Ai Fukuhara, who has trained with and competed against Liu since they were kids. Due to the pandemic, Im now unable to come to you. But after all this is over, I will for sure visit you. We can eat barbecue skewers together and lets see who the taller one is now, Fukuhara said in a video message to her longtime friend. I think now Im taller than you, but I must be much heavier. Right now what you need to do is adjust your mindset. Just keep trying and I will always support you. Chinas Zhang Yufei delivered one of the most touching moments from the swimming program in Tokyo when she showed her caring side by warmly hugging Japanese swimmer Rikako Ikee, who returned to competition last August after recovering from leukemia.  Encouraging embrace Chinas Zhang Yufei delivered one of the most touching moments from the swimming program in Tokyo when she showed her caring side by warmly hugging Japanese swimmer Rikako Ikee, who returned to competition last August after recovering from leukemia. Ikee, who was discharged from hospital in December  after going through  months of treatment, took part in her second Olympic Games after competing in seven events at the  Rio Olympics. Ikee was regarded as a major future star of the sport after winning six gold medals at the  Asian Games. However, her illness slowed her progress and she was unable to finish on the podium in Tokyo. Zhang waited patiently for Ikee to finish a TV interview before embracing her and saying she hoped she could come back strongly at next years Asian Games in Hangzhou, Zhejiang province. See you next year, said Zhang as she held Ikee in her arms. Mutaz Essa Barshim of Qatar and Gianmarco Tamberi of Italy celebrate winning gold in Tokyo, on Aug , .  Share the joy In the mens high jump final, Tokyo received a welcome dose of Olympic spirit when Mutaz Barshim of Qatar and Italys Gianmarco Tamberi put friendship before individual glory. The two were tied after their final leaps and were offered the chance of a jumpoff to decide the winner at a spectatorfree Olympic Stadium, before Barshim asked Can we have two golds? The answer was yes and the jumpersfriends who both overcame injury setbacks to make the Gamesshared top spot on the Olympic podium. Tamberi was overcome with emotion, writhing around on the track before congratulating compatriot Lamont Marcell Jacobs on his shock win in the  meters. Fan Zhendong of China shakes hands with Dimitrij Ovtcharov of Germany in Tokyo, on Aug , .  Dignified Dimitrij German table tennis star Dimitrij Ovtcharov once again saw his Olympic goldmedal dream shattered by Chinese paddlers in Tokyo. But that didnt affect his admiration for his rivals, on or off the table. I want to convey my highest congratulations and respect to Team China, given their outstanding performances and remarkable achievements in the sport, Ovtcharov wrote on Weibo in Chinese after winning the mens team silver on Friday, when China claimed gold. Chinese Table Tennis Association president Liu Guoliang gave an insight into the good relationship between the German and the Chinese players. Liu revealed that Ovtcharov sent a video of himself playing against his wife, who was wearing Ma Longs jersey, with the German joking that he was trying to find a way to beat the Olympic champion. Words of comfort Chen Qingchen of China and Jia Yifan of China congratulate Greysia Polii of Indonesia and Apriyani Rahayu of Indonesia for winning the gold medal match for Badminton Womens Doubles at the Tokyo  Olympics, in Tokyo, on Aug , .  In badminton, Chinese pair Chen Qingchen and Jia Yifan put aside the disappointment of losing the womens doubles final when they came forward to comfort Indonesias goldmedal winner Greysia Polii, who could not help but cry after thinking of her mother, who died in . The yearold Polii dedicated victory to her late mom, Siti Jauhar, saying it was a gift to the woman who had inspired her to become a professional player. She and her playing partner, Apriyani Rahayu, kneeled down on the ground and burst into tears after their triumph in the final, with the Chinese duo showing their respect and sportsmanship to help their Indonesian rivals back on their feet and saying Dont cry. You are the winners. Be happy.