Italy sees fewer COVID patients, SMEs prep for reopening
2020/5/17 9:49
? A shop owner uses a steamer to disinfect clothes while he prepares to reopen his shop, as Italy begins to ease some of the restrictions of the coronavirus disease COVID lockdown, in Rome, Italy May , .  ROME  The number of COVID hospitalizations and intensive care ICU patients dropped in Italy over the past  hours, according to the latest tally posted by the Civil Protection Department on Saturday. Recoveries rose by , from a day earlier, bringing the total to ,. Nationwide, the number of active infections fell to ,, down from , on Friday. Of those who tested positive for the new coronavirus,  are in intensive care, down by  from Friday, and , are hospitalized with symptoms, down by . The remaining , people, or  percent of those who tested positive, are quarantined at home without or with only mild symptoms. The death toll on Saturday was , bringing the total to , since the outbreak was first recorded in Italys northern Lombardy region in February. The total number of COVID cases combining infections, fatalities and recoveries has risen to ,, up from , on Friday. The Lombardy region still had the lions share of cases at , active infections. REOPENING GUIDELINES AGREED People wearing protective masks exercise at the Sempione park, after parks reopen as Italy begins a staged end to a nationwide lockdown due to a spread of the coronavirus disease COVID, in Milan, Italy, May , .  The government overnight reached a hardwon agreement with Italys  regions on national guidelines for the reopening of shops, bars, restaurants, gyms, hairdressers, beauty salons, museums, libraries, hotels, and seaside facilities on Monday. The agreement on the guidelines, which were posted overnight by the Conference of Regions and Autonomous Provinces, was hammered out after weeks of debate between the central government and regional authorities. The Conference of Regions and Autonomous Provinces is a political body that coordinates between regional and central government. The guidelines include guaranteeing a personal safety distance of at least one meter between clients, keeping hand sanitizer, gloves and masks on hand, checking clients body temperature at the entrance, and frequently sanitizing facilities and equipment. However, four out of  shops, bars and restaurants say they will not reopen on Monday, according to a survey by SWG pollsters conducted for the Confederation of Merchants Confesercenti, which represents over , small and mediumsized businesses SMEs employing  million people. Business owners cited, among others, fears of operating at a loss and of the coronavirus itself as reasons, according to the survey. Of the businesses that will stay closed,  percent said reopening wont be worthwhile economically, and  percent said they still havent been able to equip their places of business in line with the new government guidelines. Entrepreneurs fear the impact of the strictness of the guidelines...and that they will be crushed between rising operating costs and a foreseeable drop in revenue, Confesercenti said in a statement. Also on Saturday, the National Confederation of Farmers Coldiretti expected a landside effect on the food and agriculture industry once Italys , bars, restaurants, pizza parlors and ice cream shops reopen. Coldiretti also said that the reopening will be strategic for Italys , agritourism facilities, which host almost  million holidaymakers in the summer on average. With the arrival of the summer season, supporting tourism in the countryside also means avoiding the risk of dangerously crowded situations at the seaside and in the cities, while enjoying nature and the specialties of MadeinItaly food and wine traditions, Coldiretti suggested.