Intelligent methods used to recover trade after outbreak
2020/5/16 6:40
A District Court judge on Friday condemned a yearold former lifeguard for doggedly and relentlessly attacking police officers during a violent protest outside the Legislative Council complex in Admiralty last year as she jailed him for four years  the heaviest sentence meted out so far in connection with the monthslong social unrest. Judge Amanda Jane Woodcock deplored the rioting as large in scale and very serious that had caused harm, and was a direct attack on the rule of law  a cornerstone of Hong Kong. The protesters were disorderly, intimidating, insulting, provocative and violent during the hourslong clashes. Such violence cannot be tolerated by a civilized and diversified society, she said. Sin Kaho, the defendant, had earlier pleaded guilty to rioting and was the first defendant to admit guilt for rioting during the protests over the nowwithdrawn extradition amendment bill. The judge said the threshold for the sentence is six years and the seriousness of the offense called for a deterrent penalty. But, after taking into consideration the defendants guilty plea, young age and having shown remorse, she reduced it by two years. The court heard that Sin joined a mass riot outside the LegCo building on June  in protest against the nowwithdrawn extradition law amendment bill. The demonstrators had repeatedly attacked police officers, who were carrying out their duties to protect the legislature. Judge Woodcock said Sin was seen rushing to the front to confront the police, repeatedly picked up hard objects like umbrellas and iron barriers and hurled them at the officers, as seen in video footage. She also noted the riot showed some premeditation of violence as the police had found plastic stripes among Sins belongings, which were used to tie up metal barriers to resist the police. Other protesters were also arrested with helmets, goggles and masks, which were used to hide their identities. Thus, the case was even more serious than the Mong Kok riot in February , Judge Woodcock said. In June , three protesters were convicted of rioting during the Mong Kok clashes. Leung Tinkei, Lo Kinman and Wong Kakui were jailed for six years, seven years and threeandahalf years, respectively. In mitigation, Sin said he understood that violence is never a way to express ones views. The rule of law is not to be undermined and all matters should be resolved by more appropriate means. Ive set a bad example for those young people yearning for change. If I had the opportunity to talk to them myself, I would urge them not to resort to violence, he said. The police welcomed the verdict, saying the fouryear sentence reflects the severity of the offense. Chief Inspector Tang Yickkay of the Organized Crime and Triad Bureau said the force hopes the punishment could serve as a deterrent, and society could learn a lesson from it. A total of , people have been arrested so far in connection with the violent protests since June, and about  have been prosecuted for rioting. mollychenchinadailyhk.com ?