Five regions in New York state reopen in phased process
2020/5/16 4:10
New York Governor Andrew Cuomo speaks at his daily briefing at New York Medical College during the outbreak of the coronavirus disease COVID in Valhalla, New York, US, May , .  NEW YORK  The US state of New York partially reopened on Friday, while the PAUSE order will be extended to May  for remaining regions including New York City NYC, said Governor Andrew Cuomo on Friday. Five out of ten regions in the state  Central New York, North Country, Finger Lakes, Southern Tier and Mohawk Valley regions which have seen mitigation of the COVID pandemic  entered the phase one of reopening on  a.m.  GMT on Friday, according to an executive order signed by Cuomo on Thursday. They are the regions that meet the criteria. Theres no politics to this judgment, its all based on the numbers, said Cuomo at Fridays briefing. Businesses in various sectors including construction, manufacturing, agriculture, forestry, fishing and hunting, curbside retail, instore pickup or dropoff are now qualified to restart reopening in these regions, as told in the states phased reopening strategy. People are still required to wear a mask while working in construction sites and retail stores, and stores are limited to a  percent capacity. Social distancing mandate still applies, Cuomo said. Two weeks will be needed to monitor the COVID infection rate before a region enters the second phase, according to the strategy. The governor also said that those remaining five regions could reopen as soon as they meet all  metrics, which focused on the decline in hospitalization, hospital capacity and testing capacity, and dont have to wait till May . What happens next is up to each of us. This virus is powerful and every time we think we understand it we learn we dont. Government alone cant keep you safe. Its up to you, he tweeted on Friday. In another thread of tweets, Cuomo said state beaches will reopen on May  for the Memorial Day weekend at  percent capacity and masks will be required when social distance not possible. City, town and county beaches may open as well on Friday of Memorial Day weekend, as long as they fully enforce the minimum rules, he added. NYC Mayor Bill de Blasio said on Friday that the city is not ready yet to open its beaches or allow activities such as barbecue and concerts in parks. In order to keep people cool in the summer, the city will invest  million U.S. dollars to buy some , air conditioners for lowerincome seniors. Some community cooling centers may also open with strict health guidelines, but the beaches and the pools are not in the cards right now, he said at his daily briefing. This summer will require us to think differently and watch out for each other. If the results of the last few weeks are any indication, well make adjustments to help each other out and move forward together, the mayor tweeted later on Friday. As of Friday afternoon, the state has reported more than , COVID cases and over , deaths, both atop the country, according to data compiled by Johns Hopkins University.