Ningxia donates to Russia, Japan, Romania
2020/5/15 20:28
A batch of protective medical materials from Ningxia Hui autonomous region has been transported to three countries on Friday to help curtail the COVID pandemic in Russia, Japan and Romania. Photo by Hu Dongmeichinadaily.com.cn The Ningxia Hui autonomous region transported a batch of protective medical materials to three countries on Friday to help curtail the COVID pandemic in Russia, Japan and Romania. About , face masks, including , N surgicalgrade masks, and , surgical gowns were donated by the regional government of Ningxia to the Russian state of Tula oblast, Japans Shimane prefecture and Romanias Harghita county, officials said on Friday. A batch of protective medical materials from Ningxia Hui autonomous region has been transported to three countries on Friday to help curtail the COVID pandemic in Russia, Japan and Romania. Photo by Hu Dongmeichinadaily.com.cn In October, the Chinese region established an international sister city relationship with Tula oblast region. The region, which is ,south of Moscow, dispatched a range of medical supplies to Ningxia when the pandemic became grave earlier this year. For Shimane prefecture in Japan, Ningxia entered a sister city relationship in October . Shimane was the first foreign city to send a letter of support to Ningxia during the fight against the novel coronavirus. Protective medical materials that were sent to Harghita, Romania featured writing on the outside of the packages in both Chinese and English speaking of the profound friendship the two regions had formed and the willingness to help Romania fight COVID. A batch of protective medical materials from Ningxia Hui autonomous region has been transported to three countries on Friday to help curtail the COVID pandemic in Russia, Japan and Romania. Photo by Hu Dongmeichinadaily.com.cn A batch of protective medical materials from Ningxia Hui autonomous region has been transported to three countries on Friday to help curtail the COVID pandemic in Russia, Japan and Romania. Photo by Hu Dongmeichinadaily.com.cn A batch of protective medical materials from Ningxia Hui autonomous region has been transported to three countries on Friday to help curtail the COVID pandemic in Russia, Japan and Romania. Photo by Hu Dongmeichinadaily.com.cn A batch of protective medical materials from Ningxia Hui autonomous region has been transported to three countries on Friday to help curtail the COVID pandemic in Russia, Japan and Romania. Photo by Hu Dongmeichinadaily.com.cn A batch of protective medical materials from Ningxia Hui autonomous region has been transported to three countries on Friday to help curtail the COVID pandemic in Russia, Japan and Romania. Photo by Hu Dongmeichinadaily.com.cn