Trump sees COVID vaccine by yearend
2020/5/15 11:08
US President Donald Trump tours medical equipment distributor Owens  Minor in Allentown, Pennsylvania, US, May , .  President Donald Trump said Thursday that he expected a vaccine for the coronavirus to be available by the end of the year, and the military would help with distribution. Our military is now being mobilized, so at the end of the year, were going to be able to give it to a lot of people very, very rapidly, he said in an interview on Fox News. About a dozen vaccine candidates are being tested in China, the UK, Germany and the US. The World Health Organization has estimated it could take about  to  months for an effective vaccine to be developed. An immunologist who says he was unfairly removed from the Department of Health and Human Services HHS said Thursday that the nation might be rushing too quickly on a vaccine. A tomonth schedule to develop one would require everything to go perfectly, said Rick Bright. Weve never seen anything go perfectly, he added. Scientists and researchers work on a potential vaccine for the coronavirus disease COVID at Pfizers laboratory in Pearl River, New York, US, on May , .  In testimony before the House Energy and Commerce Committee, Bright said that if the US doesnt develop a plan to address a second wave of the coronavirus, the country would experience the darkest winter in modern history. Bright has said he was transferred to the National Institutes of Health in retaliation for voicing concerns about the safety of antimalarial drugs touted by Trump as a possible treatment. Later Thursday, during a tour of a Pennsylvania distribution center for masks and other medical supplies, Trump said that the US is ramping up production of COVIDrelated items and that my goal is to produce everything America needs for ourselves and then export to the world, including medicines. Without wearing a face mask himself, US President Donald Trump tours medical equipment distributor Owens  Minor during the coronavirus disease COVID pandemic in Allentown, Pennsylvania, US, May , .  Pennsylvania is one of several battleground states crucial to Trumps reelection. He carried the state by , votes in . In almost every state, stayathome or shelterinplace orders have been lifted or eased, including for businesses and public places. And Trump called on Pennsylvania Governor Tom Wolf, a Democrat, to start opening up a little bit. You have areas of Pennsylvania that are barely affected, and they want to keep them closed. Cant do that. Most of the state is still under Wolfs strict stayathome order through June , but Republican officials in some counties said they would ignore the governor and open up starting Friday. In Lansing, Michigan, the state Legislature closed its Capitol on Thursday and postponed its legislative session until next week rather than face the possibility of an armed protest and death threats against Democratic Governor Gretchen Whitmer. Thursdays protest, billed as Judgment Day, was organized by the rightwing group Michigan United for Liberty, which is protesting the states extended stayathome order that goes to the end of this month. During the protest, police said they broke up a fight involving a man with an ax. A spokesman for the Michigan State Police said one of the attendees tried to take a sign out of another demonstrators hand, and a fight ensued. One of those involved was carrying an ax. Police said there were no injuries or arrests made. On April , protesters dressed in militarystyle gear and carrying long guns crowded into the statehouse, where firearms are allowed. They taunted police and lawmakers. On Thursday, the Labor Department reported that almost  million more people filed jobless claims last week. The . million claims boost the total during the coronavirus pandemic to nearly . million, the largest number of job losses in US history. However, the number of initial claims has declined for six consecutive weeks since peaking in the last week of March. Stocks rose on Thursday as gains in bank shares and the oil market offset the unemployment data. The New York Stock Exchange said Thursday it will reopen its trading floor on May  with numerous restrictions, including traders being barred from using public transportation and being required to wear face coverings. The exchange has been closed since March , shortly after a floor trader and an exchange employee tested positive for the virus. Since then, the exchange has been operating electronically.