Europe summer breaks a stretch for some
2020/5/15 10:34
Members of a sanitizing crew clean the hemicycle ahead to plenary session of the European Parliament in Brussels on Wednesday, as Europe begins easing lockdown measures amid the COVID pandemic. ARIS OIKONOMOUAGENCE FRANCEPRESSE The European Union on Wednesday pushed to reopen internal borders and restart travel, although the prospects of reviving tourism ahead of the summer season are mixed given peoples fears amid the coronavirus pandemic. With the tourism sectorwhich usually accounts for about a th of the blocs economydecimated by the pandemic, the EUs executive commission urged a return to unrestricted free movement, albeit with safety measures such as face masks on airplanes. It also recommended that Europes borders remain closed for most travel until midJune at the least. Across Europe, the virus had infected ,, people and claimed , lives as of Wednesday, according to the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control. European governments are working on plans to reopen their borders at different speeds, with some countries looking initially to reinstate free travel with only a limited number of neighbors. We will not accept bilateral accords within the European Union that might create privileged tourist channels, Italian Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte said. That would leave us outside the European Union and we will never allow this. Italy had reported , cases and , deaths by Wednesday, health authorities said. Conte said he did not yet know when travel between Italys various regions would once again be allowed. Financial measures Also on Wednesday, Contes Cabinet passed a decree containing financial measures worth  billion euros . billion to support an economy hard hit by the virus. In the United Kingdom, the coronavirus has caused its economy to shrink by  percent in the first three months of this year. The coronavirusrelated death toll in Britain stood at ,, the Department of Health and Social Care said on Wednesday. Office for National Statistics data released on Wednesday showed the governmentordered shutdown of much of the country on March  brought economic contraction at its fastest rate since the height of the financial crisis in . The monthly drop in GDP was felt in almost all sectors and was the largest since comparable records began in . In March alone, the UK economy shrank by a record . percent as the crisis escalated. In Russia, the anticoronavirus crisis center reported , new cases in the latest hour period, taking the total to , on Thursday. The death toll climbed by  to ,. Russias secondlargest city St. Petersburg has a shortage of equipment in the citys healthcare facilities, including ventilators, city governor Alexander Beglov said. In brighter news, the first centenarian patient in Russia, Pelageya Poyarkova, had fully recovered from the virus by Wednesday, her th birthday. Jonathan Powell in London, Ren Qi in Moscow, Xinhua and agencies contributed to this story.