Health packages warm hearts of Chinese students in Bangladesh
2020/5/15 9:50
Businesses with substantial but inflexible operating costs, such as those covering rents and staff, are among the first to feel the pain of the economic fallout from the novel coronavirus pandemic. Topping the list are hotels, retailers, restaurants, bars, fitness service or training providers and beauty parlors, some of which have lost the vast majority of their patrons due to the worldwide travel curbs or social distancing measures that still remain in force in most countries. Dwindling revenues, coupled with steady costs, are creating cash flow problems. As enterprises falter in meeting their expenditures amid crumbling revenues, they face an array of possible legal action from creditors, such as their own employees, landlords, customers and other associated parties. Lawsuits, including bankruptcy and insolvency proceedings, would ensue if the legal challenges are not handled properly. Legal challenges There are also companies with business plans fixed for the duration of the last financial year and are committed to the procurement of goods and services prior to the outbreak. Unless the relevant contracts have a force majeure clause that covers the pandemic, it is difficult for businesses to back out from their commitments. In Hong Kong, business contracts sometimes include a force majeure clause that allows a party to be excused from its contractual obligations in the event of a force majeure event. These refer to exceptional or unexpected circumstances that are beyond a contracting partys reasonable control and prevent them from honoring its obligations. But, other factors, such as increased expenses or changes in economic or market conditions that affect the profitability of an enterprise, or the ease with which the parties obligations can be honored, are generally not regarded as a force majeure event. Unlike civil law jurisdictions on the Chinese mainland where contract laws provide for statutory force majeure rules, and offer considerable discretion to the courts to reopen terms when therere major changes to circumstances after the contract date, the legal rules in Hong Kong provide very limited redress for clients whose contractual obligations are made materially more onerous by the pandemic, global international law firm Withers Partner Daniel Tang told China Daily. The major challenge is the limited legal remedies available to deal with economic hardships resulting from the outbreak, he said. Moreover, clients with genuine needs for court assistance were also adversely affected, as the closure of courts in Hong Kong denied them opportunities to file bankruptcy applications or initiate legal proceedings. Even previously scheduled court hearings had to be postponed and faced substantial delays down the road because of the backlog created. The pandemic has also brought longterm changes to the business environment for Hong Kong companies. Finally, clients trying to make a deal often have their hands tied, as the drastic changes in the economic outlook force them to adjust on a commercial basis and assumptions, as well as projected earnings in the shorttomedium term future. Needless to say, international travel restrictions and social distancing rules also hamper efforts to meet in person where interpersonal interactions are key to the deal making process, said Tang. General meetings halted The pandemic has also created issues regarding convening company meetings. In late March, the Hong Kong government issued three directives to enforce social distancing amid a surge in imported COVID cases, including one that prohibits group gatherings of more than four people in public places, and the restriction has now been relaxed to no more than eight people. However, group gatherings at a meeting of a body of people that must be held within a specified period in order to comply with any ordinance or other regulatory instruments that govern their operation or its business are exempted. Global law firm Mayer Brown reckons that corporate annual general meetings AGMs of listed companies fall within the exemption and may proceed. A company listed on the Stock Exchange of Hong Kong is required to present its annual financial statements to shareholders at its AGM within six months after the end of its financial year under the Listing Rules. However, extraordinary general meetings EGMs do not fall squarely within the exemption. They are invariably held to approve one or more transactions in compliance with the Listing Rules, but it is debatable whether they must be held within a specified period. In other words, if the convening of an EGM is found to be in breach of the directive of prohibiting group gatherings of more than eight people, then the company and its directors would be subject to criminal liability and may face indemnity claims from shareholders, other participants in the EGM, as well as owners and operators of the EGM venue, not to mention the adverse publicity and reputational damage. What constitutes a reasonable excuse is purely factual, and may involve subjective assessment. We call on the relevant authority to issue guidelines to provide more certainty to those who need to arrange their businesses and affairs, said Jeckle Chiu, a partner at Mayer Brown. At the same time, we call on boards of listed companies to exercise restraint and set a high threshold for themselves in case they really need to proceed with their EGMs instead of postponing them. The urgency and necessity of the underlying transactions differ from company to company and it would be up to the board to justify a nonpostponement as reasonable, Chiu added. Mayer Brown advised listed companies either to postpone their EGMs, utilize electronic devices or to issue guidance to shareholders to submit proxies and avoid physical attendance. The issue at stake is that virtual corporate general meetings are not yet fully supported by laws and practices in Hong Kong. If a company encourages its shareholders to vote by proxy only and avoid physical attendance, it is simply against corporate governance norms of accountability. Hence, the logistical questions of convening virtual EGMs, such as setting up such facilities and enabling access and online verification of shareholders identities, need to be addressed. Hong Konglisted Bank of East Asia said it had implemented precautionary measures to protect the health of shareholders and other participants at the AGM held on April . The measures include limiting the number of attendees as necessary to avoid overcrowding at the AGM, bodytemperature checking, mandatory wearing of face masks, and nonprovision of gifts, food and drinks at the meeting. Any person who had traveled outside Hong Kong  days prior to the AGM, or who is currently subject to quarantines of any kind due to the coronavirus situation, or who had close contact with any person under quarantine or with recent travel history, shall not attend the AGM. Contact the writer at oswaldchinadailyhk.com ?