Surreal scenes as S. Korea league swings back to life
2020/5/15 9:40
? Cardboard cutouts, featuring portraits sent by fans, occupy seats at NC Dinos stadium during a Korea Baseball Organization game in Changwon, South Korea, on May .?REUTERS The team Korea Baseball Organization is batting leadoff in the global effort to return professional team sports to the mainstream in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic. After a fiveweek delay, the KBO has opened its regular season, with teams competing in empty stadiums. Everyone involved in playing and televising the games has their temperature checked on the way in, and all umpires and base coaches are required to wear masks on the field. Spitting is strictly prohibited and two traditional dugout stapleschewing tobacco and sunflower seedsare banned. In an effort to put a lighter spin on the eerie atmosphere, cheerleaders perform frenzied dance routines high up in the bleachers, scoreboards flash encouraging messages from fans and celebrities, and some teams have put up giant banners in the outfield seats with pictures of spectators wearing masks. The KBO plans to play its full game regular season, leading up to a firstround playoff abbreviated from bestoffive to bestofthree. For SK Wyverns first baseman Jamie Romak, the lone Canadian in the KBO, its surreal, to say the least. The yearold from London, Ontario, had brief MLB stints with the Los Angeles Dodgers and Arizona Diamondbacks before heading to Korea in , and in his debut season he set the Canadian record for foreignleague home runs with . He followed up with  roundtrippers last season. We are playing with a lot of gratitude, considering the worldwide conditions for professional sports, Romak said in an interview with PostMedia Canada this week. Our home stadium in Incheon hung banners with pictures of fans across the outfield bleachers and the team set up a live Zoom feed on the scoreboard so fans can connect and cheer us on. Theyve also allowed our cheerleaders to perform as usual, along with the emcee that heads up each players individual cheer song. There might not be anybody in the , seats, but our stadium keeps the music pumping. Theyve really done a great job in trying to give us a gamelike atmosphere. The South Korean players are aware the world is watching, but Im not sure they care too much. The foreign players are very aware. Playing in empty stadiums is nothing new for Romak. Ive played in some international tournaments with Team Canada in big, empty stadiums, he said. When we played against Germany in Taiwan, you could pretty much count the number of fans on your two hands. We also played in some real cool and hostile environments like Guadalajara, Mexico, where we beat the host in the semis and then beat the Americans for the gold medal at the  PanAm Games. But this is definitely a weird feeling. Spring training was really dialled down, and we were only allowed to practice. They wanted to keep our group tight and limit outside exposure. They also encouraged us to stay home as much as possible when we werent at the park, so life was pretty slow for a while. South Korea has done a great job handling this crisis. Considering the dense population, it certainly could have been a disaster, but mostly through testing they did very well in identifying problem areas and containing them. Culturally, the people acted in unison. We just finished a quick road trip where there was only one entrance in and out of the hotel, with a thermalimaging scanner set up for checks coming and going. We still wear masks and have our temperature taken constantly, and I had a cashier at a store correct me the other day on the way I was wearing my mask ... I guess my nose was too exposed. People would be pretty shocked how quickly things are returning to normal here. And having the opportunity to touch all the bases is keeping Romaks baseball dream alive and well. Its been a blast, he said.Every day, I wake full of adrenaline, nerves and excitement to play. It really is a thrill for me.