Bright days come into sharp focus in Danyang, City of Glasses
2020/5/15 9:09
Workers make eyewear products at a plant in Danyang, Jiangsu province on July , .  Qian Xin, an optician in Danyang, a countylevel city in Zhenjiang, Jiangsu province, is a happy man these days as online sales of protective eyewear have tripled during the last three months despite the COVID outbreak. Danyang, Chinas largest production and export base for optical lenses and frames, is often called the City of Glasses. Industry officials said most of the companies in the region were facing hard times at the beginning of this year as several export orders were canceled due to the epidemic, despite its key role in the global eyewear industry. During the epidemic period, most of the classes and other educational activities were conducted via online platforms. Demand for protective eyewear, especially bluelightblocking glasses, has increased as they reduce the harmful effects of radiation, said Qian. In ,  million bluelightblocking spectacle lenses were sold in Danyang. During the first quarter of this year, the sales of such lenses rose by  percent on a yearly basis. Unlike most of his peers in the catering and travel industries who have incurred steep losses, Qians business has been in the black during the first quarter and he remains confident on the prospects for the full year. Sharing Qians optimism is Yuan Hongjin, secretarygeneral of the Danyang Glasses Association, who foresees steady development of the eyewear industry this year despite economic head winds from the epidemic. Companies have been able to circumvent losses from canceled export orders due to the robust domestic demand, she said. According to Yuan, the citys total trade value imports and exports of the industry fell by . percent on a yearly basis during the first three months of this year to . million. Danyang plays a crucial role in the global eyewear market as it produces more than  million spectacle frames every year. It accounts for  percent of the total spectacle frame output in China. The city produces more than  million spectacle lenses every year, accounting for  percent of Chinas production and  percent of the global total. She said that the city is also the worlds largest production base for spectacle lenses, Asias largest eyewear distribution center and Chinas largest eyewear production base. The eyewear industry in the city traces its origin to the s and employs , people spread across , companies. In , total output value of the citys eyewear industry was  billion yuan . billion. Imports and exports of eyewear reached  million in value terms, up . percent on a yearly basis, according to the association. Yuan admitted that the pandemic had posed great challenges for the exports of goods. To tackle the challenges that companies face, the association is encouraging more companies to operate online platforms and conduct research on new, smart products, including temperaturemeasuring glasses and vaporproof glasses for maskwearers. The local government is also helping the eyewear industry by putting up advertisements for the citys eyewear products in social media, highspeed trains and expressway entrances and exits. Tang Longbao, president of the association, believes that the epidemic period is an opportune time for the industry to upgrade, innovate and embrace new market opportunities.