Chinese students send , masks to UK school
2020/5/14 20:39
A child in the UK made a drawing bearing words, Thank you Datong Primary School, to Datong Primary School in Changsha, Central Chinas Hunan province. Photo provided to chinadaily.com.cn More than , masks sent by Datong Primary School in Changsha, Central Chinas Hunan province, have reached Lincoln Minster School in the UK. The two schools twinned in last year. Two children in the UK hold a drawing made for pupils at Datong Primary School in Changsha, Central Chinas Hunan province. Photo provided to chinadaily.com.cn Long Jihong, headmaster of Datong Primary School, reached out to Fiona, head teacher of Lincoln Minster School in midApril as things were improving in China and the school was getting ready to reopen its facilities. A child in the UK shows a drawing with a note written to pupils at Datong Primary School in Changsha, Central Chinas Hunan province. Photo provided to chinadaily.com.cn Long asked Fiona if they could help and support students and teachers at Lincoln Minster School. Fiona explained there were some issues with personal protective equipment in the UK. A child and her family members in the UK made drawings to thank students at Datong Primary School in Changsha, Central Chinas Hunan province. Photo provided to chinadaily.com.cn In response, Datong Primary School sent  masks to Lincoln Minster School. Parents in Datong heard about the donation and arranged to send , more masks. A pupil from Datong Primary School and a family member pose for a picture while they pack masks they collected for Lincoln Minster School in the UK. Photo provided to chinadaily.com.cn Fiona sent me a thank you message after she received the masks. And days later Fiona told me the masks, which are really helpful, have been distributed to local hospitals and children in need, Long said. Pupils from Datong Primary School and their family members pose for a picture with masks they collected for Lincoln Minster School in the UK. Photo provided to chinadaily.com.cn Datong Primary School has also sent some photos and videos of the pupils packing up the boxes and sending messages, such as If you have friends who know your hearts, distance cannot keep you apart. A drawing by a pupil from Datong Primary School.?Photo provided to chinadaily.com.cn Recently, pupils at Datong Primary School received drawings and videos made by their friends in the UK.