Charities asked to redeploy virusrelated donations to areas in need
2020/5/14 11:26
An association of Chinese enterprises operating in the United States made a large donation of personal protective equipment PPE to San Francisco on Tuesday. The hope is that by mutual aid, the battle against a common enemy, the novel coronavirus, will be won sooner. Included in the donation were more than , surgical masks,  isolation gowns and  goggles  all muchneeded gear for frontline medical staff, nursing home workers and employees in essential businesses. Representatives from China Mobile International, the Industrial and Commercial Bank of China USA, and Shanghai Hongbo Investment  Management gathered Tuesday afternoon to have more than  boxes of PPE shipped and unloaded at San Franciscos emergency operations center, which is in charge of resourceallocation and distribution. The three companies, as key members of the Chinese Enterprise Association CEA, sent a strong and clear message to their US counterparts and the American people, said Yang Yihang, commercial counselor at the Chinese Consulate General in San Francisco, who also attended the handover. Now is a time for solidarity, collaboration and mutual support, Yang said, adding that the collective efforts of Chinese enterprises in this difficult time is very meaningful. Established in  as a selfhelp organization for Chinese companies doing business in Northern California, the CEA now has more than  members covering industries from banking and telecommunication to real estate and ecommerce. The CEA constitutes the Northern California chapter of the China General Chamber of CommerceUSA. We will always remember that our American friends, many of whom are from  the West Coast, offered us a helping hand when China was among the countries hit by the first wave in this COVID pandemic, Yang continued. Now we stand ready to repay their kindness and generosity. Yang called on US cities to continue providing a level playing field  a just and fair environment, as he put it  for Chinese enterprises. Today, we encourage more Chinese enterprises operating in the US to join their counterparts and the local community to fight our common enemy, Yang said. Mark Chandler, director of the San Francisco mayors Office of International Trade and Commerce, said, Our city is extremely grateful for this generous contribution. By late Wednesday, more than , cases of coronavirus have been reported in California, including , deaths. In the San Francisco Bay Area alone, there are more than , cases, including  deaths.