Will virus crisis clean up the action?
2020/5/14 9:26
Texas Rangers third baseman Isiah KinerFalefa spits during a Major League Baseball game against the Boston Red Sox in Arlington, Texas, in September last year. The particular prevalence of spitting in baseball has been attributed to the sports workingman roots. However, with the coronavirus pandemic heightening peoples fears over hygiene, the sport has begun to question if the loogie should be outlawed on the field of play and in dugouts.?AP With hygiene fears heightened during the pandemic, the days of athletes spitting during competition could be numbered We come not to praise the loogie, but to bury it. Already banned on sidewalks, outlawed indoors and poohpoohed by polite society, that gob of saliva and Lordknowswhatelse is done mucking up sports. In the wake of the new coronavirus, teams are revoking the germlanding privileges that turned dugouts, benches, boxing rings and even grass fields into potential biohazard sites. No sharing towels, hats, bats, gloves or water bottles. Which could mean the era of spitting, slobbering, gleaking, glanding, hawking, hocking, venoming and expectorating is about to dry up. Or not. About time they did something, said Bobby Valentine, who played and managed in the major leagues for more than  years, including two stints in the Japanese Pacific League. I was over there for seven years and I could probably count on one hand how many times I saw a ballplayer spit. Heck, he added, they dont even chew gum. But a moment later, Valentine remembers a photo tucked in a drawer somewhere in his Stamford, Connecticut, home. It reminds him why the loogie will not disappear without a fight. Its a picture of me after a game from  years ago, back when I was managing the Texas Rangers and behind me theres this elongated view of the dugout. There must have been  of those green Gatorade cups and all this other  lets just say gunk, laying around. And I used to wonder even then, Valentine mused, why guys couldnt clean up after themselves. The answer may be as oldand as Americanas the sport itself. Baseball began as a working mans game on sandlots and dusty diamonds, and more than a few players struggling with cotton mouth turned to chewing tobacco and later gum and sunflower seeds to work up some moisture. It became an institution in no time flat. Pitchers figured out that loading a glob onto one side of the ball made it dip like crazy. Fielders pounded spit into the pockets of stiff leather gloves to soften them up and hitters rubbed it on their hands or lacquered up bat handles to improve their grips, at least temporarily. But it had psychological value, too. Spitting helped some soothe jangling nerves, show contempt or toughness, or just mark their territory like dogs do. It was only a problem when an opponent got in the way of its gravity. It isnt just baseball, of course. Roughandtumble sports like soccer and football embraced the practice at the beginnings of their games, too, and once grabbing a swig of water on the sidelines during a break became available, it practically elevated it into an art form. But dont expect any new masterpieces to flow soon. With Germanys Bundesliga returning to play this weekend, Michel DHooghe, the chairman of FIFAs medical committee, has strongly advised against any soccer league restarting until the fall. But if they do, he wants even the most casual dribble on the pitch punished with a yellow card. Tampa Bay Lightning goalie Ben Bishop spits water during a  NHL game. Banning spitting in hockey would be problematic given players sometimes have a mouthful of blood after a collision.?AP It is unhygienic  I think we should have to avoid that at maximum, DHooghe said. The question is whether that will be possible. More genteel pursuits like tennis and golf have proved that it is, although both Tiger Woods and Sergio Garcia handed over hefty fines for leaving something besides sweat out on the course. Basketball and hockey are stuck indoors, but only one of them said no to spitting. Puckheads defend hockeys choice by arguing players who get a tooth knocked out during a game shouldnt have to swallow blood. Fair enough. But if youve ever watched a game and seen how much blood, sweat and tears they voluntarily share on the bench, it shouldnt come as a surprise that the National Hockey League has been hit twice in recent years by outbreaks of mumps. But thats about to change. The coronavirus has pulled the rug out from underneath just about everything in sports, and better sanitation shouldnt require a seismic cultural shift. Just rise at some ungodly hour and catch a Korean Baseball Organization KBO game on ESPN. The KBO is at the vanguard in the return of live sports. It checks players temperatures twice daily, requires umpires and trainers to wear masks and gloves, and banned spitting, handshakes, fistbumps, highfives and perhaps most noticeably, a live audience. Thats been replaced by banners picturing fansalso wearing masksstretched across every row. In a spectacularly complicated nod to social distancing, the opening pitch was rolled to home plate by a youngster wearing a uniform inside a clear balloon made up to look like a baseball. Dan Straily, an Americanborn pitcher with the Lotte Giants of the KBO, said the game lacked so much energy, it reminded him of weekday games in Oakland. Still, he had only one real complaint. I want someone to find me a game in history where baseball players did not spit on the field, Straily told NPR. Get used to it. AP Via Xinhua