Concerns in EU growing about risks of second wave
2020/5/14 9:12
Italian violinist Fiamma Flavia Paolucci performs at Tor Vergata Hospital in Rome on Tuesday, which was International Nurses Day. Italy has begun easing COVID lockdown restrictions. TIZIANA FABIAFP As European Union member states continue to ease COVID lockdown restrictions imposed two months ago, concerns about the risks of a second wave of infections have been growing. In Belgium, after all shops were allowed to open again on Monday, long lines were seen outside fast fashion and retail shops in Brussels. In the Rue des Tongres shopping area, many people walking on the narrow sidewalks and into the stores were not wearing masks. It is not very encouraging for a second phase, Belgian Health Minister Maggie De Block said of the latest easing of lockdown measures, as she watched images of lines forming on Monday morning in front of large commercial signs, according to The Brussels Times. Other EU member states, such as Italy, Spain, France and Germany, have also taken more measures to lift restrictions by opening stores and resuming classes. Germany, which has been widely viewed as effective in flattening and crushing the curve of infections, has already witnessed a resurgence after Chancellor Angela Merkel said on May  that the country could gradually return to normal. On Tuesday, the Berlinbased Robert Koch Institute for public health reported  new cases in Germany, a jump from the  reported on Monday. The institute said Germanys reproduction rate had jumped to ., meaning  people with COVID infect  others on average. The rate as of May  was .. World Health Organization DirectorGeneral Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus described Germany on Monday as a country that has a system in place to detect and respond to a resurgence in cases. He had advised countries of a slow, steady lifting of lockdowns while keeping a vigilant eye on the virus. The member European Union has also sounded the alarm about a second wave. Member states should prepare for eventual second waves of infections by taking any opportunity to enhance the existing surveillance systems, Stefan de Keersmaecker, the European Commission spokesman for public health, told a news conference on Monday. He said the commission will work with the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control and member states to ensure that the public understands that new waves can occur even if the initial wave of infection was successfully managed. ECDC Director Andrea Ammon said that if the measures are lifted too quickly, without being accompanied by testing, contact tracing, physical distancing and handwashing, then we can see the next wave pretty soon. The German government has already warned that strict measures will be reimposed if there are more than  new infections a week per , residents. In France, Bruno Bonnell, a member of the National Assembly and a member of President Emmanuel Macrons ruling La Republique En Marche party, told the media there is no doubt the infection rate will rise as France eases lockdown measures. He said it was a case of trying to balance the needs of the economy with public safety. Anders Tegnell, the Swedish epidemiologist who designed the countrys unique approach of no strict lockdown, told the Financial Times that other countries that have imposed lockdowns could face more cases in a second wave because fewer people have been exposed to the virus than in Sweden. The worry about a second wave comes as many Europeans are thinking about summer vacations. Travel in the visafree Schengen Area is still impossible for most people. Its  members imposed various border control measures after COVID hit several European nations in March. On Wednesday, the European Commission unveiled guidelines to help member states gradually lift travel restrictions and allow tourism businesses to reopen. We know how much European citizens are looking forward to summer and to travel. Their huge sacrifices over the past months will make a cautious and gradual reopening possible, for now, said European Commissioner for Health and Food Safety Stella Kyriakides. However, she said, We need to maintain vigilance, physical distancing and rigorous health precautions. Euronews and Politico contributed to this story. ?