Legacy forged in bronze
2020/5/14 8:31
Zhang Kailiangs illustrations explain the patterns on the bronze ware.Photo provided to China Daily Bronze artifacts epitomize Chinas ancient civilization and rich cultural heritage. Theyre splendid specimens of art and history for archeologists. But most people view them as mere alcohol vessels, banquet utensils, tools and weapons. Museum visitors rarely get the full story of bronzeware patterns, even with signage. Its often difficult to discern if theyre characters, lines or images. And its even trickier to ascertain what they mean. Zhang Kailiang believes they speak for themselves. Im fascinated by bronze ware and want to explore such mediums as cartoons to help the public appreciate these artworks, he says. Over , people follow his Sina Weibo account, where he has posted over  illustrations of artifacts and explains their designs, functions and histories. China has cast bronze for roughly five millennia. Most pieces from around the countrys bronze age, around , years ago, appear to be vessels for ritualistic ancestor worship. Zhang Kailiangs illustrations explain the patterns on the bronze ware.Photo provided to China Daily The wares represent an important chapter in Chinese history, the yearold says. This chapter is a treasure waiting to be discovered. Making it accessible to the public can help revive it and diversify its aesthetics. He began to illustrate ancient bronze works last year using his knowledge to create new visualizations of the ancient wisdom that the pieces volunteer. Zhang is working toward a masters in archaeology and museology at Renmin University in Beijing. He earned his bachelors in game design at the Communication University of China in the capital. Studying these two disciplines inspired him to combine cartoons with archeology. He typically sketches the outline of the vague animal pattern seen in a photo of a piece and explains it in simple language. Monster masks are one of the most common patterns from the Shang and Zhou dynasties c. th century BC. Zhang Kailiangs illustrations explain the patterns on the bronze ware.Photo provided to China Daily Zhangs drawings emphasize their bulging eyes, flared nostrils and pricked ears. Take the acclaimed Houmuwu Ding. The square cooking vessel is considered the worlds heaviest piece of ancient bronze discovered. Its housed at the National Museum of China in Beijing. Monster masks adorn its top and bottom. Zhang illustrates the masks as two kui dragons in the same shape but with different motifs. He also depicts its two handles decorated with two tigers facing each other. Their jaws close around a human head, seeming to aim at intimidating the civilian population and conveying the emperors authority. The upper part of the caldrons four feet is also adorned with monster masks above threecord designs in Zhangs illustration. During his selfquarantine, he reposted his drawing of the pair of bronze lions that guard the Gate of Supreme Harmony Taihemen at the Palace Museum in Beijing. In his illustration, the angry mother lion is holding a cub in her paw. The cub says, I want to go out. It makes people laugh. Many netizens describe his cartoons as their first clear picture of bronze ware. Visitors view the Houmuwu Ding at the National Museum of China in Beijing. The vessel is considered the worlds heaviest piece of ancient bronze discovered.Photo by Jiang DongChina Daily The National Museum of China not only hosted but also reposted on Weibo his renderings of Tao Ying Ding eagleshaped pottery caldron and Fuhao Tong Xiao Zun owlshaped Fuhao alcohol vessels. Zhang has snapped hidefinition photos and studied documents to give bronze works their deserved recognition. China has created bronze ware for over , years, roughly half of its , years of civilization, he says. This culture and history deserves more research and understanding. He hopes his cartoons can introduce more ancient artifacts, including jade pieces, lacquer ware and architecture, to help people realize heritages charm.