foreign students return to class in Suzhou
2020/5/13 11:26
A banner asking patients to wear a mask is seen at the entrance of the ER area at Holy Cross Hospital, amid an outbreak of coronavirus disease COVID, in Fort Lauderdale, Florida, US, April , .? Florida announced its first two cases of coronavirus infection on March , but recently released data by the state Department of Health DOH shows that  coronavirusinfection cases occurred in January and February. According to The Palm Beach Post, the DOH originally released data included the date of initial symptoms. The earlier cases were removed from the DOH website on Monday without explanation. Later, the data about earlier cases was uploaded again but without the dates of the onset of symptoms. The Palm Beach Post downloaded the original data, and the newspapers analysis revealed that the state recorded  people across  counties who were later listed as having contracted the novel coronavirus in January and February. However, its unclear that the  cases were included as a result of selfreported symptoms or later test results. Testing for the novel coronavirus was not available in Florida until later in February. The earlier cases involved people ranging in age from  to . In January,  people were recorded to have shown symptoms. The Post listed a few of the earlier cases A yearold girl in Duval County girl started experiencing symptoms or had her positive result on Jan . The state did not officially record her case until April . A yearold man in Broward County who had traveled to the Cayman Islands listed symptoms or a positive result on Jan , but his case was not recorded until March . An yearold Palm Beach County man who had not traveled but was hospitalized had symptoms or a positive result on Feb . His case was not added to Floridas coronavirus tally until April . A yearold Palm Beach County woman with symptoms or a positive result on Feb  was recorded by the state on April . She reported no outofstate travel but came into contact with someone carrying the virus. A yearold Broward County man, whose first positive result was recorded on Feb , later died, His case was added March . A yearold man in Sarasota County who had traveled to California and came into contact with an infected person reported symptoms or had a positive result Feb . State health officials added his case April . According to The Miami Herald, Alberto Moscoso, a spokesman for the DOH, said that many confirmed coronavirus patients reported symptoms that started weeks before their confirmatory tests. It cannot be determined definitively if these early symptoms were a result of COVID or other causes, Moscoso said. Thats community spread, said Eric Toner of the Johns Hopkins Center for Health Security. Its invisible, its invisible, its invisible, until its suddenly obvious. There had been evidence that the spread of the coronavirus in the US occurred earlier than originally believed. For example, the first known death from COVID previously was thought to have happened in Seattle on Feb . However, an autopsy showed that a person who died on Feb  in Santa Clara, California, was infected with the virus, suggesting that it was spreading in January.