Museums find novel ways to tell story of lockdown
2020/5/13 10:11
LONDONWould you put your slippers on display? The global coronavirus pandemic is still raging but museums are already gathering testimony and objects to remember life under lockdown. Its such an extraordinary experience, said Beatrice Behlen, senior curator at the Museum of London. When we knew there was going to be a lockdown, we started straight away talking about what we needed to collect something for the future. The museum, dedicated to the history of the British capital, launched an appeal for Londoners to donate items that reflect their lives during the COVID outbreak. It could be something that gives you comfortone example mentioned often is maybe your favorite slippers, and youve been wearing them every day, she said. It might also be evidence of a new skill someone has picked up, whether knitting or cooking or making masks for healthcare workers. Among the items collected so far are a pot of homemade jam and a makeshift rattle used to accompany the weekly clap for carers sessions across the country. What is interesting for us is the story thats behind it, not necessarily the thing itself, Behlen said. It needs to mean something to the people. And we asked them to tell us about the object as well. Harder to curate are the emotions people feel while isolated at home, the feelings of loss and fear, but also safety, hope and love. In response to an appeal by the Museum of Home, also in London, one family has recorded how they set up a screen in front of their table so they could share a meal with relatives via videolink. Another transformed their living room into a workshop to make gowns for healthcare staff. The museum is also asking people to record how they feel about their homes, which are now used as offices, classrooms and gyms. What seems to be coming out time and again with some of the testimonies is peoples resilience to the situation and how theyre changing and adapting, said museum director Sonia Solicari. In one recollection, a man known only as Amarjit describes how his Victorian house in east London has become a palace during the lockdown, as everything now happens here. By contrast Alex, who lives alone in a small flat with no outside space, says he feels like he is in solitary confinement in prison. However, I am grateful that I am safe and not in a difficult relationshipthe neighbors downstairs constantly fight. Solicari said she has been surprised at how open people have been. Its really become a collection of feelings and emotions, as well as a collection of images and testimonies, she said. So it documents feelings, which can be very hard for museums to collect actually. Agencies Via Xinhua