percent of students are back in school
2020/5/13 10:02
Firstgrade students learn the right way to wear a face mask at the Jiuquan Road Primary School in Lanzhou, Gansu province, on April , . Photo by Pei QiangFor China Daily Education authorities are continuing to reopen schools, with nearly  percent of students nationwide having returned to campuses so far, senior officials said at a news conference on Tuesday. According to data given by the Ministry of Education, about  million students resumed studies nationwide, . million of whom are college students. Moreover, universities in  provinces and regions are reopening to students. Only those in five provinciallevel areasBeijing, Hebei, Shandong, Hubei and Heilongjiangremain closed. Wang Dengfeng, director of the ministrys sports, sanitation and arts department, said at the conference that all senior high schools have reopened, welcoming back about . million students. Around . million vocational school students in  provinces and regions have also returned. About . million junior high students in  provinces and regions have resumed their studies, along with . million students in elementary schools, he said. As for kindergartens, there are about . million children in eight provinces and regions studying at campuses, bringing the number of students that have returned to schools to about  million. He said that the ministry will continue to enhance control and prevention efforts against the COVID pandemic to ensure student safety. We will classify every single person accuratelyfor example, those who have returned from overseas, people released from hospitals, asymptomatic cases and those from areas with high risks of infectionto make sure that everyone entering the campuses is healthy, Wang said. He also said that more strict prevention measures will be taken at campuses. We now have very specific regulations over social distancing among students and teachers and are endeavoring to set up a mechanism to supervise their health conditions and to trace their attendance. In addition to the resumption of schools, the ministry is also stepping up efforts to help college graduates find jobsespecially those from povertystricken areassince the job market was disrupted by the epidemic. According to the ministry, there are , college graduates from  counties that have yet to be lifted from poverty, among whom , are in poor financial condition. We recognize the employment of these students as the priority of our work, and more help and preferential policies will be given to them, said Wang Hui, the ministrys director of college students department. He added that to better relieve students pressure of finding jobs, the ministry will expand enrollment of postgraduates by , this year. An additional , college students will be recruited from vocational schools, with those willing to learn preventive medicine, emergency management, nursing for seniors and ecommerce enjoying enrollment privileges.