Shanghai to hone its edge in investment
2020/5/13 9:39
Passengers register their information at the New China International Exhibition Center, a transit hub to screen incoming passengers from the Beijing Capital International Airport for COVID, in Beijing, on March , .  Chinas capital Beijing will strengthen management of travelers from overseas and domestic medium and highrisk areas in order to avert a rebound of local cases, senior officials said on Tuesday. Lei Haichao, head of the Beijing Municipal Health Commission, said at the COVID epidemic control and prevention conference held on Tuesday afternoon that risks and challenges still exist in the city, and continued vigilance is needed. Beijing is an open city with a high level of internationalization, he said. Its also the national political, cultural, international communication and scientific technology innovation center, which leads it to have close connections with other areas domestically and globally. This creates difficulties in epidemic control and prevention. The conference came ahead of this years two sessionsChinas biggest annual political eventwhich will begin on May . Thousands of deputies to the National Peoples Congress, the legislative body, and members of the National Committee of the Chinese Peoples Political Consultative Conference, the top political advisory body, will gather in Beijing to hold political discussions. There are currently more than  million confirmed COVID cases in the world. There are also international flights still coming to China every day, which brings certain risks to all Chinese cities regardless of where the flights arrive, according to the commission. Domestically, new confirmed cases have recently sprouted in Heilongjiang, Jilin, Liaoning and Hubei provinces as well as the Inner Mongolia autonomous region. This could cause a rebound in cases in the capital if people from those regions travel to the city. We should take stricter measures and implement a higher level of prevention to ensure safety in Beijing, Lei said. Xu Hejian, spokesman for the municipal government and director of its information office, said on Tuesday that Beijing will continue prevention measures such as temperaturetaking and inspecting peoples health codes in communities. According to the authority, as of Monday Beijing still had  confirmed cases in the hospital,  of whom are imported cases. On Monday afternoon, Beijings antivirus leading work group held a meeting, hosted by Beijings Party chief Cai Qi, to discuss the citys epidemic control and prevention efforts. According to the meeting, authorities should guide people to continue wearing masks. In addition, schools where the students have resumed classes should strengthen control and prevention efforts and prepare detailed emergency plans. Meanwhile, the municipal government will also focus efforts on protecting cityowned enterprises overseas staff and projects.