China progress offers recovery hope
2020/5/13 9:33
White House Press Secretary Kayleigh McEnany far left and other staff all wearing face masks listen as US President Donald Trump holds a COVID response news briefing in the Rose Garden of the White House on Monday.?KEVIN LAMARQUEREUTERS While the United States marked that grim milestone of , COVID deaths on Monday, US President Donald Trump praised his administrations response to the pandemic, saying we have met the moment, and we have prevailed on testing. According to data from Johns Hopkins University, the US had reported ,, cases of the novel coronavirus as of early Tuesday, far and away the most reported by any country. The US death toll from COVID had reached ,, just as almost every state has made plans to partially reopen some businesses, something critics fear might contribute to an increase in the daily reports of fatalities. On Monday, Trump said the US is testing more people per capita than South Korea, the United Kingdom, France, Sweden, Finland and many other countries, in some cases combined. Trump also announced that his administration would give  billion to states to increase testing capabilities. But the actual figure, the administration said earlier on Monday, was about  billion. The president dismissed talk that there was a breakdown in White House measures aimed at curbing the spread of the virus after two members of the staff tested positive. Earlier, the White House issued a directive asking most officials to wear masks or face coverings in public spaces. Trump didnt wear a face mask during the news conference but all the reporters asking Trump questions on Monday were wearing face masks. Partial reopening It was also announced on Monday that parts of New York state and California will reopen this week, but New York City, the city hit the hardest in the US, wont reopen nonessential businesses and allow large gatherings until June. The citys rate of new hospitalizations, the number of available hospital beds and intensive care beds remain short of New York Governor Andrew Cuomos thresholds, saying that the city met only four of seven criteria required to reopen. Cuomo also said new research showing that the coronavirus spread from Europe to New York was a factor in the early failures to contain the outbreak. Cuomo on Friday noted it was too late for US to eventually ban travelers from Europe on March , citing that  million Europeans came through New Yorks airports from December to March. As many countries are gradually easing their antiepidemic measures, the World Health Organization on Monday said that a slow, steady easing of lockdown measures will be key in stimulating economies while keeping a vigilant eye on the novel coronavirus. The organizations directorgeneral, Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, said many countries have used the lockdown time to ramp up their ability to test, trace, isolate and care for patients, which he said is the best way to track the virus, slow the spread, and take pressure off the health systems. The health body also published further guidance on the weekend to address the criteria for lifting lockdown measures. Agencies contributed to this story.