New events, mixedgender teams get Olympic spotlight
2021/8/9 14:20
Sakura Yosozumi of Japan competes in the womens park skateboarding finals at the  Olympics in Tokyo on Aug , .  The closing ceremony of the Tokyo Olympic Games was held on Sunday night at Japans Olympic Stadium. Over the day sports extravaganza in Tokyo, a total of  medal events were held across  sports, with skateboarding, surfing, sport climbing and karate making their debuts. To promote greater gender diversity at the Olympic Games, the International Olympic Committee introduced multiple new mixedgender events at Tokyo . At the Games,  mixedgender events were held in archery, athletics, badminton, equestrian, judo, sailing, shooting, swimming, table tennis, tennis and triathlon. Moreover, four International Federations have moved to genderbalanced events for the first time, namely in canoe, rowing, shooting and weightlifting. According to the quota allocation of the IOC, almost  percent of the athletes participating in Tokyo  are women, making it the first genderbalanced Games in history. A total of  different countries and regions claimed a medal at Tokyo, more than at any other Games. Carissa Moore of the United States celebrates after winning gold in womens surfing at the Tokyo Olympics on July , .  Alberto Gines Lopez of Spain competes during the bouldering portion of the mens sport climbing final at the  Summer Olympics on Aug , . He became the firstever sport climbing Olympic champion.  Ivet Goranova of Bulgaria celebrates after winning against Anzhelika Terliuga of Ukraine not pictured in the womens kumite kg at the Olympic Games Tokyo  on Aug , .  Chinas Yang Qian and Yang Haoran celebrate after winning gold in the meter air rifle mixed team at the Tokyo Olympics on Tuesday.  Gold medalists Kajetan Duszynski, Karol Zalewski, Natalia Kaczmarek and Justyna SwietyErsetic of Poland celebrate winning the mixed xm relay final in Tokyo on July , .  Gold medalists James Guy, Adam Peaty, Anna Hopkin and Kathleen Dawson of Britain celebrate winning the mixed xm medley relay in Tokyo on July , .  Gold medalists Jessica Learmonth, Jonathan Brownlee, Georgia TaylorBrown and Alex Yee of Britain celebrate on the podium with masks on for winning the Triathlon mixed team relay at the Tokyo  Olympics on July , .  Clarisse Agbegnenou, Teddy Riner and members of the French Judo team celebrate after winning gold in the final bout of mixed team Judo against Japan in the fan zone at Trocadero Gardens next to the Eiffel Tower after their return from the Tokyo  Olympic Games in Paris on Aug , .  Gold medalists An San and Kim Jedeok of South Korea celebrate on the podium after winning gold in the Archery mixed team event at the Tokyo Olympics at Yumenoshima Park Archery Field in Tokyo on July , . 