Guangdong stays alert amid COVID threat
2020/5/12 20:48
July Moyo left, local government and public works minister, receives medical supplies from Guo Shaochun, Chinese ambassador to Zimbabwe, at the Robert Mugabe International Airport. Photo by Tonderayi MukeredzFor China Daily Twelve Chinese antiCOVID specialist doctors arrived in Harare on Monday on a chartered Air China flight, along with a donation of medicines and protective personal equipment to help Zimbabwe in its fight against novel coronavirus. The medical team from Central Chinas Hunan province consists of senior doctors in infection control, laboratory science, critical medicine, respiratory medicine, and epidemiology and child care. The doctors will help in sharing ideas and experiences with local medical practitioners, whom they will meet at various medical centers during their twoweek mission. Guo Shaochun, the Chinese ambassador to Zimbabwe, said the team had not come to teach but to learn, exchange lessons, ideas and technologies. The donation shows Chinas capacity to help and its not the end. The only way to fight COVID is through international combination and cooperation. And we believe that through our joint efforts with Zimbabwe we can win the battle against the pandemic, he said. July Moyo, the local government and public works minister, said the medical personnel and medical supplies will bolster the countrys determination to fight the coronavirus. Today is mostly symbolic in that we are receiving two types of gifts The gift of human beings with expertise and medical supplies. This is a first in our endeavor to fight the pandemic that a country has brought to us their experts to interact with our own specialists, said Moyo, who is responsible for resource mobilization in the Ad Hoc InterMinisterial Taskforce on COVID. We will have more insights and more things to learn, which can only assist us in our strategy to fight COVID. Some of the kits you have brought we were beginning to out of, Moyo said. Doctor Zhu Yimin, the leader of the medical team, said besides sharing knowledge and expertise, the team has come to convey a message of the strong friendship between the two countries. Twelve medical experts from Central Chinas Hunan province brought medical supplies and their expertise to Zimbabwe. Photo by Tonderayi MukeredziFor China Daily We are here to exchange ideas and experiences in combating COVID, as you know China has now flattened the curve of the pandemic. We hope that our mission here and the medical supplies we have brought will enhance Zimbabwes confidence in responding to COVID and cement our traditional friendship, he said. China started helping Zimbabwe with information and expertise on combating the coronavirus as early as February before any confirmed cases were reported in Africa. When the threat of COVID became real, China quickly assisted with medical supplies and equipment. By last week, the Chinese government and local Chinese businesses had donated more than , N respirators, , face masks, , protective suits,  infrared thermometers,  thermal guns, , testing kits, , pairs of sterile latex surgical gloves and surgical shoe covers, , pairs of gloves, , eye patches, , face shields, , swabs and extraction kits and five ventilators. Alibaba founder Jack Ma, through his foundation also made three sets of donations to  African countries, including Zimbabwe, via the African Union. Zimbabwe has conducted over , tests and recorded  positive coronavirus cases and two deaths. This year marks the th anniversary of ChinaZimbabwe diplomatic relations. The two countries enjoy cordial relations dating back to the days of Zimbabwes struggle for independence when together they fought against colonialism.