China plays clean at Tokyo Olympics spokesperson
2021/8/9 13:58
File photo ITA Head of Testing Matteo Vallini, ITA Director General Benjamin Cohen, ITA Head of Legal Affairs Dominique Leroux and ITA Head of Science and Medical Neil Robinson wearing protective face masks during a press conference in Tokyo, Japan, July , .  TOKYO  Chinese athletes had received  doping tests as of August  at Tokyo , and there was no single case of doping, a spokesperson from the Chinese sports delegation said here on Sunday. The spokesperson stated that Team China fulfilled its goal to play clean and take clean medals at Tokyo. China dispatched a member delegation to Tokyo, its largest ever for an overseas Games. The  Chinese athletes, including  Olympic champions, competed in  out of  sports in Tokyo. As the Games wrapped up on Sunday, China ranked second in the medal count behind the United States with  golds,  silvers and  bronze medals. China also equaled the best overseas Games record in terms of gold medals as they had at London . Frankly speaking, we succeeded both in sport and in moral excellence, said the spokesperson, adding that Team China battled against the impact of the postponement of the Games due to COVID. China maintained its dominant position in sports like weightlifting, diving and table tennis. There were seven golds and one silver in all eight weightlifting events, seven golds and five silvers in eight diving events, and four golds and three silvers in table tennis. China also picked up more medals in shooting, badminton and gymnastics. Altogether,  gold medals came from Chinas traditionally dominant sports, representing  percent of the countrys total gold medals. China also made progress in swimming and athletics, with three golds from swimming, and another two from shot put and javelin. Su Bingtian became the first Chinese sprinter to race in the Olympic mens m final after clocking a personal best of . seconds. During the Games, China shattered four world records in events like the womens xm freestyle relay, and set  Olympic records. The spokesperson said China adopted various hitech training methods such as big data, sensors, video analysis, D printing and wind tunnel experiment. A lot of overseas professionals worked in different groups to help athletes get better prepared. The United States, along with China, Japan, Britain, the Russian Olympic Committee and Australia, remain at the top of medal count. Although the United States faced challenges in track  field and swimming, they won a total of  medals and displayed their overall competitiveness. Team China will stick to effective practices and reform measures in the past five years to promote overall competitiveness of Chinese sports, the spokesperson said, adding that the Tokyo Olympic Games success has made significant contributions to the Olympic movement worldwide. The Japanese government and the organizing committee of the Tokyo Olympics have invested a lot of resources in hosting the Games. We should thank them, and we sincerely welcome you to Beijing Winter Olympics, said the spokesperson.