HK to submit national education proposals
2020/5/12 11:17
Members of the Democratic Alliance for the Betterment and Progress of Hong Kong announce their proposals to be submitted to the upcoming annual meetings of the National Peoples Congress and Chinese Peoples Political Consultative Conference during a press conference on Monday. PARKER ZHENG  CHINA DAILY Six Hong Kong deputies and members of the nations top legislature and political advisory body are to propose measures aimed at promoting understanding of Chinese history among Hong Kong educators and students. At a press conference in Hong Kong on Monday, the three National Peoples Congress deputies and three members of the National Committee of the Chinese Peoples Political Consultative Conference revealed  proposals to be submitted to the annual plenary sessions, or two sessions, to be held in Beijing later this month. They are all members of Hong Kongs largest political party, the Democratic Alliance for the Betterment and Progress of Hong Kong, including Tam Yiuchung, who is the SARs sole member of the NPC Standing Committee, and DAB Chairwoman Starry Lee Waiking. They said the lingering social unrest in Hong Kong shows that many young people have a poor understanding of the spirit of the rule of law and national identity. Such shortcomings reflect the inadequacies of the citys education system, causing misunderstanding of one country, two systems and creating negative views of the motherland among young people. To set things right, the proposals focus on improving national education in Hong Kong. They also call for the setting up of a special institution, led by experts from Hong Kong and the Chinese mainland, to promote education in Chinese culture and history to enhance young peoples knowledge of the country. Courses should also be introduced for students, school principals, school board members and teachers to raise their awareness of the latest social and economic developments on the mainland. Mainland institutions stationed in Hong Kong will be encouraged to hold public lectures and invite mainland scholars to explain national policies and projects to the people of Hong Kong. The mainland and Hong Kong should also strengthen cultural exchanges, including exhibitions of precious historical relics and producing television and online programs, to promote Chinese culture in the city. According to the delegates, the mainland authorities will be asked to formulate policies to help Hong Kong and Macao students receive education in major mainland cities. Moreover, the Ministry of Education will be asked to consider recognizing the qualifications of parttime programs of Hong Kong universities, and to provide more training and job opportunities for Hong Kong students on the mainland. Further to a proposal made last year, DAB delegates put forward a more comprehensive plan to reclaim land in Guangdong waters to build Hong Kong communities. They suggest designating Zhuhais Guishan Island in the Pearl River Estuary off southwestern Lantau Island, and its neighboring waters, to provide a plot of residential land of at least  square kilometers for Hong Kong residents. In response to the COVID pandemic, the deputies and delegates also called for a review of and improvement to the mechanism of epidemic reports and communication across the country, and strengthen research and development of hightech protective gear, such as reusable face masks.