France, Spain join ranks of European nations easing virus lockdown amid secondwave fear
2020/5/12 10:39
Employees stand outside a reopened Chanel fashion boutique in Paris after France begun a gradual end to a nationwide lockdown due to the coronavirus disease COVID in France, May , .? BRUSSELS  France and Spain on Monday cautiously joined the ranks of European nations loosening coronavirus restrictions, while the fear of a secondwave outbreak is hanging over. The easing came a little shy of two months after the two governments imposed nationwide lockdown to curb the coronavirus pandemic, which has so far claimed , lives in France and , in Spain, according to the latest official tallies. The relaxation also came as the World Health Organization WHO announced that the global coronavirus caseload had passed the  million mark. I FEEL IM REBORN People in France can now move more freely. More important for them, meetings with family and friends are allowed if the gathering draws no more than  people. Business can resume, factories can kickstart longstalled assembly lines, and pupils can return to schools  if safety precautions are in place. Im so excited. Its so good to go back to work after a long period of confinement. I feel that Im reborn, said Josephine, a florist in Paris. In the French capital, one million stickers on the ground in train and metro stations and seats marked social distancing. Commuters had to wear masks and need to fill in a document to use public transport in rush hours. Any offender risks a fine of  euros . U.S. dollars. Under the new rules, citizens can only travel up to  km unless for professional and urgent reasons, while restaurants, cafes and cinemas are still banned from receiving customers. Frances firstday postlockdown is going as it should, said JeanBaptiste Djebbari, minister of state for transport, expressing satisfaction to see that the wearing of the mask is well respected. In Spain,  percent of the population were allowed to progress to Phase One on Monday, while regions of Madrid, Catalonia, among others, remained at Phase Zero after failing to meet certain criteria. The regions that have moved into Phase One will see a gradual reopening of commerce, with bars, shops, libraries, and museums allowed to open under reduced capacity and strict hygiene rules. Meetings of up to  people are allowed. Members of the same family can travel in the same car or sit next to each other on public transport, although they have to respect social distancing, and everyone taking public transport has to wear a face mask. The Phase One will last at least two weeks before some regions are allowed to progress to Phase Two, which will see further easing of restrictions. SAVE LIVES, STAY CAUTIOUS Both governments have opted for a gradual approach to lifting the confinement measures, aiming to perk up their ravaged economies without prompting a second wave of outbreaks. In a Twitter message to citizens, French President Emmanuel Macron said Thanks to you, the virus has slowed. But it is still there. Save lives, stay cautious. Currently, a single positive case in France can infect less than one person, with the reproduction rate commonly referred to as R slightly over ., Health Minister Olivier Veran said. We know that when we gradually lift the confinement, there will be the R rise. What we want is to maintain the rate below one, so that the epidemic declines, the minister said. Deconfinement is not a return to the life as before, he stressed, adding that a lockdown may be reimposed if the virus spreads rapidly. To Pascal Crepey, a French epidemiologist, the risk of the virus resurgence remains high and depends on the success of the first phase of the deconfinement. The risk of an epidemic resurgence exists as long as there is no vaccine neither treatment, Crepey told Xinhua. All measures that aim to slow the epidemic spread are good, including barrier gestures, mask. If they are respected, surely, they will help to make the virus situation under control. FURTHER STEPS ACROSS EUROPE In other parts of Europe, Monday saw governments take further steps to return to normalcy. Belgium entered phase B of the deconfinement, with businesses throughout the country allowed to reopen under strict conditions. The reopening came one day after the expansion of social contacts, which allows people to receive up to four guests, family members or close friends in each home visit. Cyprus made another big step back to normality by calling final year students back to classes to have a normal school year conclusion. Last week, Cyprus kickstarted its economy by allowing , retail shops and the construction sector to resume operation. In Greece, students in the final year of high school also returned to their classrooms on Monday. They will be followed by other high school and middle school pupils on May . Greece started easing on May  the full lockdown, which was imposed on March . After hair salons, bookstores and other shops opened a week ago, now about a third of employees and businesses that were suspended have returned to work, government spokesperson Stelios Petsas noted on Monday during a regular press briefing.