Express delivery helps flow of goods rebound
2020/5/12 9:27
An express worker processes packages at a delivery station in Qinhuangdao, Hebei province, on Feb . Photo by CAO JIANXIONG  for CHINA DAILY The flow of delivered goods, once interrupted by the COVID outbreak, has notably recovered in Beijing. More people can receive goods at their doorstep or downstairs, since Beijing said at the end of April that express delivery workers can enter residential communities with greencode registrationa verification system for entering and leaving residential areas or densely populated public places. The goods ordered by our clients have further diversified from packed rice, vegetables, toilet paper, edible oil, snacks and ethanol for disinfection during the FebruaryMarch period, to sun cream, summer clothing, books, electronics, fresh fruit and wine in April, said Li Jie, a yearold delivery worker at a Beijing service depot of logistics company ZTO Express. To prevent infection, the company has given Li and his colleagues sufficient protective supplies such as masks and gloves. It has also required them during the outbreak to sterilize their electric vehicles and goodsdistribution areas within or outside residential communities at least three times a day. In contrast to exportoriented companies that have been hit hard by declining global demand during the first quarter of the year, the rise of ecommercebased platforms, express delivery, takeaway and related industries has become a symbol of Chinas highly mobilized, dynamic economic forms amid the COVID outbreak, said Liao Tao, general manager of China Post Groups delivery branch. Couriers and takeaway riders these days are often called the capillaries of the city, he said, adding that these industries have been helpful in creating jobs during the tough period. By supporting peoples daily lives and helping businesses resume operations over the past three months, Wang Xingting, a delivery rider at an SF Express service depot in Beijings Haidian district, said his depots workload surged since the Spring Festival period. He said a number of former fitness instructors and employees of nightclubs and restaurants have joined his company due to the temporary shutdown of their work sites after the Spring Festival holiday. Thanks to the countrys continuous effort to effectively contain the spread of the virus, Chinas average daily express shipment volume had exceeded  million pieces in late April, returning to the normal operational level before the COVID outbreak, according to data released by the State Post Bureau. Online retail sales of physical goods currently account for onefifth of the total retail sales of the countrys consumer goods, said Bian Zuodong, deputy directorgeneral of the bureaus department of market supervision. He said the government, which is eager to upgrade the sectors earning strength, will encourage ecommerce and logistics service providers to expand three sectorsrural, manufacturing and international marketsto further stimulate domestic consumption and facilitate the resumption of production and exports. A ZTO Express worker processes packages at a delivery station in Wuhan, Hubei province. Photo by Zhu XingxinChina Daily Express delivery businesses in Wuhan, the capital of Hubei province and the city once hit hardest in China by COVID, reached the target of restoring  percent of production in midApril. The city has , express delivery outlets, and , of them had reopened by the end of last month, accounting for . percent of the total, the local government reported in late April. The extended Lunar New Year holiday and the selfquarantine during the coronavirus outbreaks peak in China highlighted the express delivery industrys significance in distributing daily living and medical materials, as well as goods such as food, laundry detergent and facemasks, to Chinese families across the country, said Yu Weijiao, chairman of Shanghaibased YTO Express. The epidemic will change many Chinese consumers shopping behavior in the long run, he said, emphasizing that Chinas battle against the virus has accelerated the shift toward online commercial channels and new retail based on ondemand delivery. In addition to investing  billion yuan  million to build an industrial zone to develop the next generation of logistic tools and solutions, as well as other commercial projects in Shanghai this year, YTO Express has not only deployed resources to help Chinese companies resume production, but has also sent cargo planes to ship epidemic prevention and control materials and goods to countries including Malaysia, the Philippines and Pakistan. The express sector will shift from a laborintensive sector to a capitaland technologyintensive one, said Cai Jin, vicepresident of the Beijingbased China Federation of Logistics and Purchasing. This is in line with the governments desire to support the development by express delivery and technology companies of smart postal lockers, drones, driverless vehicles and fully automated warehouses to boost the express industrys work efficiency and upgrade its digital technologies, he said. Key players have already begun to cut operational costs and improve efficiency via adding investment in the areas including service robots, G application, drones, big data, electric trucks, new cargo aircraft and internetconnected warehouse facilities, Cai said. Chinas express delivery market has been the worlds largest by volume since  and is likely to become the largest by revenue in , global credit ratings agency Fitch Ratings predicted in a report in March. This will be underpinned by the countrys shift to a consumptiondriven economy, continuing urbanization, rising etailing penetration into inland and lowertier regions and the rise of new retail models and social etailing, it said. Apart from dealing with the coronavirus outbreak, the agency affirmed that industry concentration will keep rising as larger companies that have a competitive edge gain market share as well as through mergers and acquisitions, strategic alliances and the exit of smaller participants throughout China. Since express delivery is an essential industry for the national economy, its strategic value, driven by strong market demand, will not face a substantial impact this year, said Lai Meisong, chairman of Shanghaibased ZTO Express. Chinas courier sector saw rapid growth during the recent fiveday May Day holiday, with parcels collected and delivered both surpassing  billion pieces, according to data from the State Post Bureau. In all, . billion parcels were collected during the period, up . percent yearonyear, while . billion parcels were delivered, up . percent from a year earlier. The bureau said Chinas express delivery business rebounded from a low level in January, with positive growth in February. Growth remains at over  percent on a yearly basis, it said.