Fruit express shipping line launched
2020/5/12 8:35
A medical worker wearing personal protective equipment PPE takes a swab sample from a woman, as South Africa starts to relax some aspects of a stringent nationwide COVID lockdown in Diepsloot near Johannesburg, South Africa, May , .  Young people are increasingly stepping up to help combat the spread of the coronavirus in Africa with enterprising initiatives. Their contributions are making a difference as the World Health Organization predicts that Africa could become the continent hit hardest by COVID. As of Monday afternoon, , cases had been reported across Africa, the WHO said. South Africa, the worstaffected country in the continent, saw the number of cases top , by Sunday, according to health authorities. In Ghana, President Nana AkufoAddo said in a broadcast late on Sunday that a worker at a fishprocessing factory in the Atlantic coastal city of Tema had infected  colleagues with the novel coronavirus. Ghana had reported , confirmed cases as of Sunday night, the most infections in West Africa. Greenway International Foundation, a youthdriven environmental protection organization from Ghana, has partnered with the Nigeriabased World Youth Summit and the United Nations Youth Association to distribute healthcare supplies to vulnerable communities. Michael Olusanya, the organizations founder and director, said it has been distributing sanitizers, liquid soap and face masks, as well as educating the community on how to reduce the spread of the virus. Olusanya said the group had so far handed out , containers of homemade liquid soap in centiliters portions, , hand sanitizers in milliliter packaging, , face masks, and  buckets in Ghana and Nigeria. Kenyas Usalama Technology, a mobile platform founded by James Chege, is helping to disseminate information about the risks posed by the coronavirus. The platform also links users to nearby emergency services and helps potentially infected people access healthcare services. The application uses GPS to offer locations near users. Chege said his company has about , users, with the site logging about , lifetime downloads. Locations of medical facilities authorized by the government to offer firstline COVID responses are shown on a map, as well as isolation facilities provided by the government. We do not have exact numbers of COVID infected users but we estimate that it may be up to  percent of our users, he said. Chen Yingqun in Beijing and agencies contributed to this story.