African youth in forefront in the fight against coronavirus
2020/5/12 0:00
As coronavirus continues to wreak havoc across the globe with the World Health Organization predicting that Africa could be the hardest hit, the youth across the continent are in the forefront, providing solutions to curb spread of the disease. Greenway International Foundation, a Ghanaianbased youthdriven environmental protection organization, has partnered with Nigerianbased World Youth Summit and United Nations Youth Association to provide relief to the vulnerable communities. Michael Olusanya, the organizations founder and director, said they have been distributing sanitizers, liquid soap and masks, as well as educating the community on how to reduce the spread of coronavirus. Olusanya said they have developed reusable masks that can be recycled. He designed the masks together with his colleague, Doreen Danso. He said they have so far distributed , containers of homemade liquid soap, , containers of hand sanitizers, , masks, and  buckets in Ghana and Nigeria. On Earth Day, April , Greenway International Foundation organized an online event on Zoom, a videoconferencing platform, where  speakers from across the world shared the positive and negative effects of coronavirus lockdown. At the end of the session, the outcome indicated that there is an alarming increase in cases of depression and suicide. Many people seem to have appreciated the past and are hoping for a better future, Olusanya said, adding plans are underway to organize a postCOVID session. Kenyabased Usalama Technology, a mobilebased platform founded by James Chege, is helping to disseminate information campaigns about the risk of coronavirus. The platform links users to nearby emergency services and helps those with potential COVID infections to access healthcare. The application uses GPS to capture peoples geographical location. Chege said Usalama Technology so far has about , users and , lifetime downloads. He said they have implemented an info hub feature that has listings on a map of all the medical facilities authorized by the government to offer firstline COVID response as well as all isolation facilities provided by the government. We do not have the exact number of COVID infected users but we estimate this number may be up to  percent of our users, he said. Chege has also partnered with Queen of Peace Counselors, a team of qualified counselors, to deliver free, anonymous mental health services via their digital platform. Youth Social Advocacy Team, a Ugandanbased organization led by refugees is working on combating the spread of coronavirus in the refugee community in the country. John Jal Dak, founder and executive director of the organization, said they have set a target of  million masks, to be provided to refugees in Uganda. He said through the one week one million masks for refugees initiative, they have been able to produce and distribute over  masks in the Rhino Camp, a refugee settlement. We buy masks from womens selfhelp groups at a cost of . per mask. So far, we have mobilized  locally to buy the masks, Dak said. He said they intend to distribute masks in all the refugee camps in the country, and are appealing for more funds to enable them to achieve the goal. Uganda is home to about . million refugees. In the Nakivale refugee settlement in the southwestern part of the country, Wakati Foundation, founded by Alex Mango, has been sewing and providing masks to the refugees. To address the impact of coronavirus, Ugandanbased social entrepreneurship companies, including Zetu Africa, StartHub Africa and the Social Innovation Academy, pooled in their resources to establish an online challenge dubbed Smarter than Corona. The challenge is aimed at finding solutions to problems arising from coronavirus in the country. The best idea will receive financial support. The United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees said one of the primary strategies for curbing spread of the virus in vulnerable communities should be to engage the local youth and youth networks. edithmutethyachinadaily.com.cn