Xi sends greetings to nurses
2020/5/11 15:47
Marks caused by the mask are seen on the face of a nurse at the Fuzhou Pulmonary Hospital in Fuzhou, Fujian province, Jan , .  Supporting dedicated professionals to help them save lives highly encouraged President Xi Jinping encouraged the countrys nurses on Monday to make new contributions to promote the building of the Healthy China initiative and maintain the security of global public health. In greetings sent to nurses across the country ahead of International Nurses Day on Tuesday, Xi complimented the nurses for their brave fight against the novel coronavirus disease both in China and overseas. Nurses have made significant contributions to disease prevention and control, and they have demonstrated the great spirit of respecting lives, saving patients, being dedicated to giving of themselves and showing great love for others across borders, Xi said. Newly recruited nurses take an oath during a capping ceremony at Peking University Peoples Hospital in Beijing, capital of China, April , .  More than , nurses have been sent to the front lines of disease prevention and control since the COVID outbreak, according to the National Health Commission. Noting that nursing is an important part of health services, Xi instructed Party committees and governments at all levels to care for nurses. He stressed the importance of strengthening the building of nurse teams and improving mechanisms to help excellent nurses to remain focused on their careers. Society as a whole should understand and support nurses, he added. The president said that he hoped nurses would uphold good traditions, develop their humanitarian spirit and make further efforts for the health of the Chinese people and the public health of the world. In a report delivered during the Communist Party of Chinas th National Congress in late , Xi, who is also general secretary of the CPC Central Committee and chairman of the Central Military Commission, put forward the Healthy China initiative. Under the initiative, China will improve its national health policy, deepen reform of the healthcare system and develop a sound modern hospital management system. International Nurses Day, which falls on May , was established in  by the International Council of Nurses to commemorate the birth in  of Florence Nightingale, the founder of modern nursing.