Xi extends festive greetings to women
2020/5/11 13:19
? A woman wearing a mask to avoid the spread of the coronavirus disease COVID takes a photograph of her husband and child after checking in at Gimpo international airport in Seoul, South Korea, May , .  SEOULSouth Koreas capital has ordered to close all clubs and bars after a burst of new cases sparked fears of a second coronavirus wave as President Moon Jaein urged the public to remain vigilant. The country reported  new cases on Sunday, its largest daily increase in a month, taking the total to ,. More than two dozen cases were linked to a yearold man who tested positive after spending time at five clubs and bars in Itaewon last weekend. Health authorities have warned of a further rise in infections, with about , people estimated to have visited the five establishments identified. The jump in new infections comes as everyday life in South Korea has slowly started returning to normal, with the government relaxing social distancing rules last Wednesday. Moon said on Sunday that the fresh infection cluster had raised awareness that even during the stabilization phase, similar situations can arise again anytime. Elsewhere in Asia, the Japanese government on Friday eased access to coronavirus tests and indicated that a new test supplementing the current test could be approved next week, as the countrys confirmed cases rose to , on Sunday. The Health Minister Katsunobu Kato told parliament on Friday the governments review of antigen test kits, which are simpler and quicker to conduct, will be completed next week for possible approval. The new test will be covered by the countrys public insurance system. In Myanmar, the military on Saturday declared a ceasefire from Sunday to Aug  to help fight the virus. The ceasefire will be applicable to the areas except for those where armed organizations named as terrorists by the government are based, a statement from the Office of the CommanderinChief of Defence Services said. Another four weeks In Malaysia, the government extended the time frame for movement and business curbs by another four weeks to June , amid a gradual reopening of economic activity stunted by the pandemic. Existing rules under a conditional movement control order remain in place until the new expiry date in June, which include practicing strict hygiene and social distancing, Prime Minister Muhyiddin Yassin said on Sunday. Last week, businesses were allowed to resume work as usual, albeit under strict health guidelines. Malaysia had reported , cases with  deaths as of Sunday. In Pakistan, the authorities began lifting the weekslong lockdown that was enforced to curb the spread of the virus, as authorities reported another big rise of , cases to , with  new deaths. Last week Prime Minister Imran Khan said he was ending the lockdown in phases because his government was unable to financially help those millions of people who rely on their daily earnings to survive and feed their families. In Africa, South Africa saw a continued spread of COVID with more than  new cases being reported on Saturday after easing of restrictions. The country reduced levelfive restrictions to levelfour on May , allowing the partial reopening of some businesses, and Health Minister Zweli Mkhize said the approach must ensure a differentiation in the levels of lockdown. South Africa had has a total of , confirmed cases by Sunday. Benin on Saturday conducted mass coronavirus testing of teachers ahead of the reopening of schools, as part of a plan to loosen measures against the pandemic. The West African country of  million is set to end six weeks of travel restrictions to key cities and allow some students back to classrooms from Monday. Agencies  Xinhua ? ?