African Championships to serve as Olympic qualifiers
2020/5/11 10:13
? Women wearing protective face masks following an outbreak of the coronavirus disease COVID walk past the Olympic rings in front of the Japan Olympics Museum, a day after the announcement of the games postponement to , in Tokyo, March , .  NAIROBI  The rescheduled African Championships in Algiers will serve as the qualifying event for the Tokyo Olympic Games in . Confederation of African Athletics CAA President Hamad Malboum Kalkaba said on Saturday that with the Olympics pushed back by a year, the African Championships will serve as the best ground for the qualification process for the Tokyo Games. Kalkaba noted that both Lome Togo and Algiers Algeria will retain the hosting rights for the Africa CrossCountry Championships and the Africa senior Athletics Championships, which were postponed from  to  due to the COVID pandemic. The CAA said it had already signed contractual agreements with the two host countries for Africas premier track and crosscountry competitions, even after the postponement of the two events to . Lome keeps the organization of the African Cross Country Championship which will now take place in March  while Algiers retains the organization of the African Nations Championships that will serve as the qualifier for the Olympics, now that World Athletics has pushed the qualifying deadline for the Tokyo Games to June  next year, said Kalkaba. Kalkaba, however, said it was not the CAAs responsibility to announce the precise dates for the African Championships, and will have to discuss the issue with Algerian authorities once the current control measures are eased. The African Championships will probably take place one month before the Olympic Games to allow those who seek qualification to do so, Kalkaba said. However, the CAA noted that it remains a difficult time for African track athletes owing to the effects of the pandemic. It is clear that we are at halfhalf, we have almost no activities and we must naturally comply with the arrangements that the governments of the various CAA member countries have taken to deal with this COVID pandemic. We are no longer able to organize competitions at a global level or in Africa. This is a difficult time for African athletes, said the CAA president.