Train carrying epidemic gear leaves Wuhan for Belgrade
2020/5/11 9:41
A freight train carrying medical supplies for the novel coronavirus fight leaves for Belgrade, Serbia, from Wuhan, Hubei province, on May , . It is expected to arrive in  days. Photo by Li XiFor China Daily Cargo includes . million surgical masks, plus goggles and thermometers A ChinaEurope freight train carrying epidemic prevention and control supplies left Wuhan, Hubei province, on Saturday bound for Belgrade, the capital of Serbia. The train left Wujiashan railway container center station at  am carrying almost  metric tons of antiepidemic supplies worth more than  million, according to Wuhan AsiaEurope Logistics, the operator of the train. It was the first train carrying only antiepidemic supplies to have left Wuhan, a city once hit hard by novel coronavirus pneumonia, since freight train services resumed on March , it said. The cargo included items bought by Serbians and donations from Chinese. Gao Ruorui, the companys deputy general manager, said the supplies included  million nonsurgical masks, . million surgical masks, , nonsurgical protective suits, , surgical protective suits, goggles, thermometers and medical devices. The cargo would arrive in Belgrade in  days, he said, adding that it would leave China by the Alataw Pass in Xinjiang. The Serbian government and its people offered great support to China when it was seriously hit by the epidemic, and it is our turn to return the favor, he said. Fifteen ChinaEurope freight trains carrying the equivalent of , standard foot containers have left Wuhan since the resumption of services, Gao said. The stable operation of ChinaEurope freight trains has contributed to the resumption of work at foreign trade enterprises in Wuhan and neighboring regions, ensured the continuation of the global supply chain and supported the global fight against the pandemic, he added. The first ChinaEurope freight train to leave Wuhan after the resumption of services arrived in the western German city of Duisburg on April . The services were halted when Wuhan was put under lockdown in January. The goods on that train included medical supplies, auto parts, electronic products and optical communication fibers, Wuhan AsiaEurope Logistics said. In March and April, China sent , tons of antiepidemic supplies on ChinaEurope freight trains to European countries, where the epidemic situation was grim, China State Railway Group said. In the first four months of this year, , ChinaEurope freight trains transported , foot equivalent units of cargo between the two regions, up  percent yearonyear, it said. The trains have remained a reliable transportation channel connecting China, Europe and countries involved in the Belt and Road Initiative. There were , ChinaEurope freight train services last year, up  percent yearonyear, China State Railway Group said.