Overseas journalists visit Shanghai schools
2020/5/11 9:39
The principal of Zhongshan School in Shanghai, third from right, and two students take questions from journalists, on May , . Media workers from  overseas media organizations visited the school. Photo provided to chinadaily.com.cn Overseas journalists invited to visit two schools in Shanghai last week described students as taking the health crisis in their stride and undaunted after classes resumed following more than two months of online study at home. Fortynine journalists from eight countries and regionsincluding Japan, France, the United States, the United Kingdom and Singaporetoured two middle schools on Thursday, the day after students in the thirdyear of junior high and the secondyear of senior high returned to school. Their reports highlighted Chinas gradual return to school as some educational institutions in other countries hit by the novel coronavirus pneumonia pandemic weigh their own positions. Students mental wellbeing after staying at home since January was a focus of their interviews. Shanghai High School principal Feng Zhigang told Agence FrancePresse that resuming classes was the responsible thing to do, not only for the teenagers studies, but also for their physical and mental health. A journalist takes photos of students at Zhongshan School in Shanghai on May , , the second day of school for thirdyear students in junior high school and secondyear students in senior high school. Photo provided to chinadaily.com.cn At home there is a lack of social activities, so longterm online lessons more or less will bring some problems, he said. The school told the journalists it had emphasized social responsibility in its online classes and encouraged students to embrace changes and adopt a positive mood for study. Shanghai High School alumnus Hu Weiguo, the head of a Shanghai medical team sent to support Wuhan, the Chinese city hit hardest by the pandemic, gave a speech about the teams experience that students watched online. It motivated them to be hardworking and contribute to society, the school said. A story by Reuters said students were thrilled to return to class after the monthslong lockdown despite having to wear face masks, compulsory temperature checks, strict hygiene procedures, the installation of glass shields on dining tables and constant reminders to keep  meter apart. Zhang Jiayi, a yearold Shanghai High School student, told Reuters they usually looked forward to the holidays, but the holidays had become too long. This time, we longed to return to school, where we can see friends and teachers, Zhang said. Journalists take photos of students at Zhongshan School in Shanghai on May , , the second day of school for thirdyear students in junior high school and secondyear students in senior high school. Photo provided to chinadaily.com.cn Principal Feng told Reuters the school had a psychological guidance team to assist students during the isolation of online classes, but that could never be a substitute for being reunited with friends and teachers in person. Some students said they were not daunted and had become used to pandemic prevention measures, which had become the new normal in public spaces in Shanghai. The citys information office said it had helped overseas journalists conduct a number of interviews since January, organizing earlier media tours focusing on the supply of pandemic prevention materials, novel coronavirus pneumonia treatment, the resumption of work and production, and the cloud lifestyle and cloud economy. Journalists from  overseas media outlets have joined the tours. Since early February, Shanghais municipal government has been updating its daily press briefing on the pandemic in English, French, Japanese and Korean on the website of its Foreign Affairs Office.