France, Spain ease virus lockdowns but UK wary
2020/5/11 9:23
French hairdresser Marc Mauny tends to his first customer during the reopening of Marc Creations hair salon at midnight in Mayenne, as France softens its strict lockdown rules during the outbreak of the coronavirus disease COVID, May , .? PARIS  Millions of people in France and Spain were set to embrace a relaxation of stayathome rules on Monday, but Britain extended its lockdown as countries plot their way tentatively through the coronavirus crisis. Fears of a second wave of the pandemic, which has killed more than , people worldwide and wrecked the global economy, stalked much of Europe and the world. With millions out of work and economies flatlining  including in the United States, where  million people lost their jobs in April  governments are desperate to reopen, but most are choosing a gradual approach. In France, people from Monday morning were able to walk outside without filling in a permit for the first time in nearly eight weeks, teachers will start to return to primary schools, and some shops  including hair salons  will reopen. Bars, restaurants, theatres and cinemas will, however, remain closed. Spaniards outside of urban hotspots such as Madrid and Barcelona  which remain under lockdown  made plans to meet friends and family in bars and restaurants that have outdoor spaces. But Prime Minister Boris Johnson said it was too soon for Britain to do the same. Almost seven weeks after a nationwide stayathome order was put in place, more than , have died during the outbreak in Britain  the worst toll in Europe and second only to the United States. Colossal cost? Britains Prime Minister Boris Johnson speaks during filming of his address to the nation from No  Downing Street following the outbreak of the coronavirus disease COVID, London, Britain, May , .  Johnson, who himself spent a week in hospital with COVID, said on Sunday the measures had come at a colossal cost to our way of life but added it would be madness to squander the progress by moving too soon. This is not the time simply to end the lockdown this week, the yearold said, but he unveiled a conditional plan to ease the measures in England in the months ahead. Some European officials have been emboldened by declining death rates Frances toll of  on Sunday was its lowest since early April, and Spains daily fatalities have dropped below . But the risk of a second wave was underscored by a resurgence in South Korea. Although widely praised for its handling of its initial outbreak, the country has been forced to shut all bars and clubs in the capital Seoul after a cluster of infections. There was uncertainty in Germany, too, with at least one district forced to reimpose restrictions after an outbreak at a meat processing plant. And even as the country loosened its lockdown restrictions, the latest German data also indicated the infection rate was rising again. Bustling bazaars ? A man wearing a protective face mask jogs along Paseo de la Castellana avenue after Madrids local authorities allowed some streets only for pedestrian use during weekends and festivity days amid the coronavirus disease COVID outbreak in Madrid, Spain, May , .  In Spain, however, they were getting ready to celebrate. We have already set a date for dinner on Wednesday, just  of us. I cant wait to touch someone, to kiss and be kissed, said yearold Beatriz Gonzalez in the Spanish city of Las Palmas in the Canary Islands. Belgium and Greece are among other European nations set to ease lockdowns on Monday. Turkey had already eased some restrictions and let overs out for the first time on Sunday. Iran, the Middle Easts worsthit country, has also relaxed its lockdown measures, and bazaars and shopping centres in the capital Tehran were bustling again after being nearly deserted for weeks. But health ministry spokesman Kianoush Jahanpour warned the situation should in no way be considered normal, as one region recorded a spike in death rates and reimposed a lockdown. And the resumption of league football in Europe was dealt a blow after confirmation of infection clusters among players in Spain, Germany and Portugal. Football bosses in all three countries, however, insisted that season restarts planned for the coming weeks were still on track. AFP