Lady consumers pack a punch online
2020/5/11 9:20
A boy joins his mother to pick strawberries at a plantation cooperative in Hohhot, the Inner Mongolia autonomous region, in April. WANG ZHENGFOR CHINA DAILY Female shoppers tap ecommerce to keep life on an even keel during epidemic In China, the novel coronavirus didnt just unleash the COVID epidemicit appears to have also unlocked the purchasing power of hundreds of millions of female consumers, sparking esales worth billions of yuan and deepening consumption upgrade. In the process, the bug may have unwittingly paved the way for actualizing the full potential of ecommerce, and transformed the fortunes of certain categories of products and services like healthcare, household necessities, consumer electronics, kids products like toys and learning aids, and even fashion and cosmetics, in spite of women staying indoors mostly. Lin Wen, , a clerk at a financial institution in Beijing, epitomizes the newgeneration Chinese female consumers keen to adapt to a pandemicstricken world in order to keep life on an even keel. Part of the adaptation process involves mastering the art of online shopping, which is mostly done these days by tapping on smartphone screens. Since the outbreak, Lin has been trawling online marketplaces frequently to buy a range of products hand sanitizers, juice extractor, electric oven, baking ingredients, sportswear, face masks, eye essence, health supplements, what have you. She has also bought Lego toys and childrens books for her little son who will enroll into a primary school in the next academic year. This led to her spending more time playing with him during the outbreak, given the stayathome orders of the local authorities. Although I have to remain indoors to avoid getting infected, I still manage to buy whats needed via online shopping, which I find to be a lot of fun. Id like to buy all sorts of protective and healthcare products for my family, Lin said. Her larger goal is to maintain the quality of life as much as possible during the pandemic. She has downloaded several fitness apps and bought a yoga mat, workout clothes as well as highend skincare products, in an attempt to stay in good shape, improve her image and temperament. Thanks to consumers such as Lin, Chinas ecommerce sector has grown exponentially in recent months. The countrys middleand highincome female shoppers now demand increasingly diversified and personalized products and services, said industry insiders. It is noteworthy that female consumers are attaching importance to health and spending more on maternal and infant goods, and beauty, makeup, and fitnessrelated products, they said. According to a report released by big data service provider QuestMobile, Chinas online retail sector saw a surge in the number of female users in February when the epidemic peaked in the country. Active female users of mobile shopping rose  percent yearonyear to  million in February. During the day month, female users spent an average  hours on mobile internet, up nearly  percent yearonyear. Each female user spent nearly  hours on ecommerce apps on average, up more than  percent yearonyear, said the report. In February, ecommerce apps Taobao and Pinduoduo figured among the top  apps with the most active penetration rates among female users, said the report. It also cited the increasingly diverse channels for female users in online purchases, including content platforms, social networking platforms and recommendationbased platforms. Chen Ke, senior partner of consultancy Roland Berger, said during the epidemic, female consumers, who drive household consumption, had sufficient time to satisfy their families purchasing requirements for daily necessities and healthcare and protective products. Consumers pick cosmetics at a mall in Wuhan, Hubei province, on March . WANG JINGCHINA DAILY Meanwhile, their demand for cosmetics and clothing was met largely by the booming ecommerce and various promotional activities launched by merchants, Chen said. A report released by JD Big Data Research Institute said sales of protective products including masks, disposable gloves, and antibacterial wipes increased sharply during the COVID epidemic, and the growth rate of female consumption in this category was much higher than average. Female consumers tended to spend more money on their children since the outbreak. Sales of toys and musical instruments, amusement equipment and baby milk formula surged , percent, , percent and  percent yearonyear during the epidemic period from Jan  to Feb . Females also tend to entertain themselves as indicated by the percent yearonyear rise in sales of Nintendos handheld gaming consoles Switch during the same period. Sales of tablet computers also rose  percent yearonyear. Female consumers have been focusing on fitness during the time of selfisolation, which drove sales of yoga mats, body care and female care products up by  percent,  percent and  percent yearonyear during the period of Jan  to Feb . The JD Big Data report also concluded female consumers bought more consumer electronics and home appliances in  than previously, while health and fitness have become a new shopping focus. The top five products bought by them last year were cosmetics and skincare products, maternal and infant commodities, personal care products, fresh produce and books. Ecommerce platforms such as Tmall, JD, Pinduoduo and Vip.com are further tapping female consumption potential through offerings of personalized goods and services, said Mo Daiqing, a senior analyst at the Internet Economy Institute, a domestic consultancy. Although the epidemic has affected the brickandmortar businesses to some extent, the pentup consumption demand will be further unleashed when the epidemic dies down. According to Mo, female consumers born in the  period are fond of sharing their photos and pleasures in daily lives on WeChat, Weibo and other social media platforms, and buying products based on recommendations of their friends and some online communities. Social ecommerce shopping apps such as Red, known as Xiaohongshu, and Meiyou have gained traction among the urban females born in the s. The latter value quality, and have relatively high consuming power and premium tastes. Although affected by the epidemic, sales of cosmetics on Red still maintained steady growth, with online searches for beauty, and makeupandskincare content rising  percent and  percent in February compared with January. Data from QuestMobile showed the daily active users of Red grew  percent during the Spring Festival holiday Jan  to Feb  from a year earlier, and its average daily usage time grew . percent yearonyear but it did not provide absolute figures to substantiate its data. The purchasing potential of females has been further unleashed during the International Womens Day shopping gala held on March  by tech behemoth Alibaba Group Holding Ltd. More than , brands doubled their sales on its businesstoconsumer arm Tmall during the promotional event from a year earlier, while the sales revenue from livestreaming Taobao vendors surged  percent compared with the previous year. Taobao attracted  million new shopkeepers in February. Wenzhou, Zhejiang provincebased shoemaker Red Dragonfly, which held more than  livestreaming events, saw its daily revenue surge over  million yuan , within just nine days. Based on our data and observation in the latest survey, female consumers paid more attention to health, safety and protection of individuals and families during the epidemic, and also endured more pressure from both inside and outside, said Laurel Gu, category director of Mintel China, a consultancy firm. Gu noted that in terms of consumer behavior, women, especially those aged between  and , are more concerned about the exposure to the virus in daily lives than men, so they keep an eye on the supply of health protectionrelated products, such as masks and disinfectants in market. They also prefer cooking at home rather than ordering takeouts. The pandemic has also boosted online shopping. Some  percent of female respondents said they were more willing to purchase homegrown brands after the outbreak, a shift in consumption attitudes that might have an impact on their buying choices at online and offline channels for a long period of time, Gu said. A Nielsen survey showed that women were more concerned with smart and technology products than men. Compared with men, women had stronger willingness to buy intelligent products, ranging from such home accessories as smart speakers and home theater to bigticket items like smart vehicles. The COVID epidemic is quickly revolutionizing how Chinese consumers think about their health, as well as changing their purchasing behavior and the channels they are using to shop, said Justin Sargent, president of Nielsen China. It is both a challenge and an opportunity for brands and retailers. With the advent of G, augmented reality, artificial intelligence, and a shifting market environment, brand owners should be continually embracing change while exploring new business strategies.