Ecommerce provider keeps Chinese companies trading amid outbreak
2020/5/11 0:00
MadeinChina.com, a domestic BB ecommerce service provider developed and operated by Focus Technology, has launched multiple services to assist Chinas companies promote foreign trade during the novel coronavirus outbreak. Exhibiting is an important method to showcase and in products around the world, but hosting an exhibition has huge challenges amid a pandemic. To solve the problem and ensure  exhibitions are held in  countries as planned, MadeinChina.com provides services, combined online and offline measures and builds international trade channels for companies. By the end of June, the platform will launch  online exhibitions and showcase Chinas products for overseas purchasers. This will allow domestic manufacturers to speak with potential buyers without going abroad. According to a senior member of MadeinChina.com, when buyers select products, they can get detailed information online such as photos, descriptions, videos and a degree factory picture. Since MadeinChina.com started this business in , it has launched  online exhibitions. At some famous exhibitionssuch as the International Consumer Electronics Show and the BIG , a construction exhibition for the Middle East, Africa and South Asiasuppliers received around , purchase requirements from professional buyers. During the pandemic, the service provider also set up online meetings for overseas purchasers who could not visit factories in China and meet with partners. At a recent meeting, a Kenyan buyer wanted a large number of the atmospheric water generators, known as airwater machines, which can extract water molecules from the air to provide drinking water. After consultants in MadeinChina.com learned about their purchase requirements, they selected an appropriate Chinese supplier and hosted an online meeting for two sides. By the end of February, the number of searches for forehead thermometers, face masks and other sanitary products from overseas buyers rose sharply. MadeinChina.com selected some highquality suppliers and promoted them online through search engines, social media and other online channels. To better serve multilingual buyers and expand in emerging markets, MadeinChina.com has accelerated its promotion in markets of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations, the European Union and those involved in the Belt and Road Initiative. The platform cooperated with the BrazilChina economic and trade exchange center for the first time in March. It plans to launch special events for bestselling products, as well as online and offline promotion events for Chinese products in Brazil. During the virus outbreak, the website set up a  online service window to answer questions and has provided around , pieces of publicpurchase news for Chinese suppliers. With all these efforts, the wider websites views grew  percent yearonyear and its business opportunities grew . percent compared with February . caoyingyingchinadaily.com.cn ? A staff member works at MadeinChina.com, a platform providing online services to build international trade channels for companies during the COVID outbreak. CHINA DAILY ? ?