Covestro gives away protective equipment
2020/5/11 0:00
Global materials manufacturer Covestro provided support in the early stages of the fight against COVID by donating medical and protective supplies to Chinese hospitals. It donated more than , pairs of protective goggles, including , pairs of airtight goggles and , thermometers, with a combined market value of . million yuan ,. The first shipment of goggles arrived at frontline hospitals in Wuhan as early as Feb . The other donations were assigned to hospitals in Wuhan and across China. Covestro also donated  Dprinted mask regulators to Xiaogan, one of the cities most affected by the coronavirus outbreak in Hubei province, followed by another  regulators for Shanghai No  Hospital via the Shanghai Jinqiao Biyun Charity Foundation. Covestros polyurethanes team worked together with Sinomax, a leading provider of hightech sleeping products, to donate , neck and waist pillows to a hospital in Huanggang, Hubei province, to help the medical staff to get better rest. The manufacturer also fulfilled an urgent order from Hikvision, a Hangzhoubased company that had a large demand for polycarbonate and thermoplastic polyurethane, to produce thermometers. It took only  hours for the first batch of materials to reach Hikvisions factory, , kilometers away from Covestros plant. Covestro also completed an order from Chengdu CapitalBio for polycarbonate films, a material in huge demand for the production of nucleic acid test kits for coronavirus testing. It managed to produce . metric tons of the films at its Thailand plant within two days. The materials from Covestro enabled Chengdu CapitalBio to produce what they needed in February without delay. Covestro is committed to working with our partners to ensure the health and safety of frontline medical workers through our professional advantages as we deliver on our corporate social responsibility, said Holly Lei, president of Covestro China. We see that governments at all levels in China are doing their best to control the epidemic through various measures. We believe that the difficulties are temporary and hope the epidemic will end soon. Covestros investment in China is always longterm, and our confidence and commitment to the market remain unchanged. Meanwhile, Covestro has been making efforts to formulate emergency policies and measures to provide protection for its employees as it maintains production and operation. All employees are required to take temperature measurements before entering production sites, while emergency coordinators in all departments collect employees information every day to ensure they are in good health. The company encourages employees to stay in their own work areas, and use telephone or online communications tools to reduce interpersonal contact. Covestro is also taking steps to help its contractors to strengthen epidemic prevention measures. The company has set up a special employee WeChat group for those who are in Wuhan to communicate related policies and offer support. ? Covestro works together with Sinomax to donate , neck and waist pillows to a hospital in Huanggang, Hubei province. CHINA DAILY ? ?