Ten photos from across China April   April
2020/5/10 7:14
? A man sporting a face mask looks toward beef in the meat section of a Costco warehouse club during the COVID pandemic in Webster, Texas, US, May , .  WASHINGTON  The United States will purchase  billion worth of dairy, meat and produce from farmers and ranchers starting early next week, President Donald Trump announced on Saturday. The USA will be purchasing, from our farmers, ranchers  specialty crop growers,  billion dollars worth of dairy, meat  produce for food lines  kitchens, Trump said in a tweet Saturday afternoon. The US president noted that the government purchase is part of the Farmers to Family Food Box, calling it great news for all. Demands for agricultural products have plummeted amid the COVID outbreak, as widespread lockdowns since late March disrupted supply chains across the nation, even forcing some farmers to destroy their products that cant be stored. Some of the countrys largest slaughterhouses have closed due to growing infections among workers at certain facilities, presenting additional challenges for farmers. Trump has recently signed an executive order to keep meatprocessing plants open, but it has drawn backlash from the countrys largest meatpacking union. The United Food and Commercial Workers UFCW International Union on Friday announced its opposition to the reopening of  meatpacking plants under the recent executive order, raising concerns about the serious safety issues at these facilities that put workers and the food supply at risk. Meanwhile, farmers and ranchers have been devastated by the COVID crisis, with yearonyear farm bankruptcies increasing  percent, according to the American Farm Bureau Federation, which cited recently released data from US courts. Wisconsin was the hardest hit with  filings in the month period, followed by Nebraska with  filings and Iowa at , the American Farm Bureau Federation noted. More than  percent of the filings were in the state Midwest region, followed by  percent in the Southeast. The US president recently announced a billionUSdollar relief program to help farmers and ranchers hurt by the COVID pandemic, with  billion dollars in purchases of fresh produce, dairy and meat for distribution at food banks. The coronavirus food assistance program will also provide  billion dollars in direct support based on actual losses for agricultural producers where prices and market supply chains have been impacted by the pandemic, according to the US Department of Agriculture.