Museum provides a story of success
2020/5/9 15:20
Zhang Xiaowei puts on her protective suit carefully, every time before she enters a temporary treatment center or an isolation ward for interview. Zhang Xiaowei, a reporter, wife and mother, lives in Wuhan, in Central Chinas Hubei Province. Zhangs husband and son are beach volleyball coaches. Zhang has a daughter, whom she met during an interview  years ago. Since the outbreak of the novel coronavirus disease COVID epidemic, just before Chinese New Year, Zhang and her family members have played various roles  on different battlefields  in fighting the epidemic. Zhang works at the TV news center of Hubei Media Group. Her husband, Lu Cheng, a retired volleyball player, currently coaches Hubei provincial mens beach volleyball team. Their son, Lu Yuliang, considers his father a role model. Lu Yuliang is also a beach volleyball coach, under the sports bureau of Wuhans Jiangan district. Zhang Xiaowei doing a report. The change Since our fight against the novel coronavirus epidemic started, ahead of this years Spring Festival, a change has taken place in my family. The change is that we have more time together while having our dinner, every day. Due in part to my job, I usually do not have much time to take care of my son at home. He calls himself the leftbehind child of my family, Zhang says. The family has a tradition like most Chinese families, Zhang and her husband invite their parents to have a big family dinner on Chinese New Years Eve, almost every year. This year, however, the situation was different. Zhang, her husband and their son had dinner without the extended family. Zhang said it was the first time in two decades she had such a small family gathering on Chinese New Years Eve. It was also on Chinese New Years Eve that Zhang was assigned to report on Wuhans fight against COVID. Since late January, Zhang has been busy reporting on the efforts to eradicate the disease. For example, she has entered isolation wards, or the socalled viruspolluted red zone, to complete interviews. She has also been to temporary treatment centers and residential communities, which have patients who have a fever. Zhang seldom tells her husband and son that she has been to those dangerous places, as she does not want to worry them. It was not until the news program was about to air a segment, with her conducting an interview in a temporary treatment center, that Zhang finally told her husband and son about her assignments. Before the program was broadcast, I told my husband and son the story of a policeman, who worked in the temporary treatment center. The policemans name is Wang Hengfeng. Wang met his father, unexpectedly, when he was working in the center. His father was one of the patients. Wang could not spare the time to look after his father when he was at his post. His father did not complain. Instead, he asked Wang to concentrate on his work, Zhang recalled. She also told her husband and son that no matter how dangerous her job seemed to be, as a reporter, she had to finish her tasks by reporting on the front line. Lu Cheng and Lu Yuliang support Zhangs decision. They take turns cooking delicious food at home, so Zhang can enjoy her dinner and have a good rest after she returns home every day. In February, Lu Cheng and Lu Yuliang both joined the volunteers group responsible for helping to secure residential communities in Wuhan. Zhang posted a message on her WeChat Moments on February . She wrote My son put on his mask and volunteers armband. He looked calm and he was determined to safeguard his own battlefield. Lu Cheng joins the volunteers group to help protect residential communities in Wuhan. Understanding each other During Lu Yuliangs childhood, it was not easy for his parents to stay at home, especially for lengthy periods, to take care of him. Both of his parents were quite busy with their work. Lu Yuliang began attending boarding school when he was a primary school student. He returned home once every week. His father, Lu Cheng, spent more than six months a year leading his team during training andor competitions outside Wuhan. Even when Lu Cheng was in Wuhan, he rested only one day a week. After Lu Yuliang entered middle school, Lu Cheng began spending more time looking after his son, and the elder Lu began shopping at food markets and improving his cooking skills. Lu Yuliang admires his father very much. Influenced by his father, Lu Yuliang decided to become a beach volleyball coach. Lu Cheng has taught his son how to lead a team, and how to arrange training sessions. Lu Cheng treats the members of his team as if they were his children. He tells Lu Yuliang it is important to show love to members of his team, and to consider the team as a family. Now, some of the players of Lu Yuliangs team are attending college. They like to call Lu Yuliang Coach Lu Junior, and they visit him when they return to Wuhan during a school vacation. Zhang tells her son it is important to shoulder his responsibilities as the teams leader. In , many places in Hubei province were ravaged by floods. Zhang went to several of the areas to report on the flooding. At that time, Lu Yuliang was leading his team during training in preparation for a provincial youth beach volleyball game. The school, where the team was training, was flooded. Lu Yuliang quickly transferred his students to a safe place. My parents have told me no matter what the circumstances, I must give priority to the safety of my students, Lu Yuliang says. Fourth member Zhangs family welcomed a new member in . In early February that year, Sun Shuilin, a businessman who managed a construction project, drove from North Chinas Tianjin municipality to Wuhan, his hometown, to pay migrant workers who had participated in the project. However, Sun Shuilin and four of his family members died in a car accident on their way to Wuhan. Despite coping with the deep sorrow, Sun Shuilins younger brother, Sun Donglin, paid the migrant workers on time, and he ensured they could take their earnings back to their homes before the Spring Festival. Sun Shuilin and Sun Donglin were praised by the public as brothers of honesty. When Zhang was reporting on the brothers story, she met Sun Yun, Sun Shuilins daughter, who was orphaned when her parents and three siblings died in the accident. At the time, Sun Yun was younger than . Zhang invited Sun Yun to her home. Lu Cheng and Lu Yuliang both said they were willing to look after the new member of their family. Sun Yun established her own family after she married in . Now, she has a lovely daughter. Zhangs family was awarded a most beautiful family of Hubei province in . During the ceremony, Zhang was busy on assignment, and Lu Cheng was traveling with his team at a competition outside Hubei. Lu Yuliang and Sun Yun had a discussion, and they decided Sun Yun would attend the ceremony and receive the award on behalf of the family. Last year, Zhangs family was named a National Most Beautiful Family. The family is still doing its part to spread warm and positive energy in Wuhan, a heroic city to be remembered  for its fight against COVID  in the extraordinary year of .