Sheshan resort receives , tourists over Labor Day
2020/5/9 12:48
The Shanghai Sheshan National Tourist Resort in Songjiang district, Shanghai, received a total of , tourists over the Labor Day holiday, local media reported on May . This figure accounts for . percent of all tourists in Songjiang over the fiveday holiday. Scenic spots in the resort limited the number of tourists allowed to enter and only allowed them enter at specific times. On May , the Sheshan National Forest Park received , tourists C  percent of its full daily capacity. Although there are many tourists in the park, it is still much less than previous Labor Day holidays, said a tourist surnamed Li, who travels around the park with his daughter every year. He said he was comforted by the parks efforts to keep tourists safe. At the command center of the Songjiang Forest Farm, employees consistently examined realtime monitoring screens, while others patroled the forest farm to ensure the satefy of tourists. Since the forest farm reopened in March, we have limited the number of tourists, required them to make reservations, taken their temperatures, checked their health QR codes, and asked them to wear masks before entering the farm, noted Xu Ping, head of the farm. She also added that every mountain on the forest farm was guarded around the clock by speciallyassigned workers. Meanwhile, Shanghai Happy Valley received , tourists over the holiday, a . percent decline yearonyear. Since April , Shanghai Happy Valley has limited the number of tourists to  percent of its full daily capacity, or no more than , tourists per day. All indoor entertainment facilities in Shanghai Happy Valley currently remain closed, including the Magic Circus and Marine Aquarium, and tourists are required to maintain a distance of . meters from each other when queuing up. ? Workers at the Shanghai Sheshan National Tourist Resort take tourists temperatures before allowing them to enter the scenic area.  account sheshanlvyoutopnews A worker at the Shanghai Sheshan National Tourist Resort directs tourists to enter the scenic area in an orderly manner.  account sheshanlvyoutopnews A worker at the Shanghai Sheshan National Tourist Resort disinfects outdoor entertainment facilities.  account sheshanlvyoutopnews A worker at the Songjiang Forest Farm monitors the area through realtime surveillence screens.  account sheshanlvyoutopnews