Far from home, student draws on kindness to cope
2020/5/9 9:17
Editors note This news column showcases stories from around the world that bring a touch of positivity to the fight against the deadly coronavirus. Zou Yining, a secondyear graduate student from China at Georgetown University, has found a way to stay positive during the COVID pandemicby helping others. ? A man walks at an empty campus green at Georgetown University, closed weeks ago due to coronavirus, in Washington, US, April , .  Zou, one of the hundreds of thousands of Chinese students in the United States, interns at a Washington DC think tank, the China Environment Forum, or CEF, at the Wilson Center. The organization focuses on plasticsrelated policy research and Zou works on the CEF website. Recently, Zou received a package from the Chinese embassy in Washington that contained protective KN and surgical masks, medications, sanitizing wipes and a brochure to help Chinese students stay healthy in the US. She also received a gift bag including fresh fruit and snacks from her supervisor, Jennifer Turner, director of the CEF, with a message expressing her hope that the interns stay strong amid the coronavirus pandemic. I was moved to tears a little as my heart was warmed by such care and solicitude, and by not feeling isolated and lonely anymore, Zou said. At the beginning of this pandemic, Jennifer asked me about the situation of my family and the city they live in, and she also wanted to make donations to Chinese people. My heart felt the warmth of her kindness and caring. Zou is grateful that she has a professional, friendly and active work environment, especially as discrimination toward Chinese in the US has been present since the outbreak began. She said she felt depressed when she saw Chinese people and Asian Americans being subjected to racist attacks on Twitter. I think its time for the two countries to come together instead of blaming each other. The US and China need more mutual cooperation on global challenges, said Zou. She learned that some of her colleagues volunteered amid the pandemic. One of my colleagues made masks with her tiny sewing machine and then donated them to community workers, cleaners and couriers, Zou said. And another colleague, who preferred to cook at home before, decided to order takeout more frequently to support local restaurants. I felt really encouraged by their experiences and also wanted to support the people around me. Zou found the hospital closest to her, MedStar Georgetown University Hospital, and registered her donation information. On April , Zou, with another classmate, donated all of her KN masks and three bags of disinfectant wipes to the hospital. At this time, I think frontline medical workers who are more vulnerable to COVID should be protected more than us, Zou said. I feel really happy since I have an opportunity to contribute to the common good, even though Im not that strong. Yi Zong in Washington contributed to this story. DONG LESHUO in Washington leshuodongchinadailyusa.com