Health alert levels lowered in Guangdong, Shanghai
2020/5/9 8:06
People go shopping at a creative market in Guangzhou, Guangdong province on May , , during the fiveday Labor Day Holiday.  Guangdong province and Shanghai municipalitythe two major frontline areas to prevent and control people with COVID entering the countrylowered their public health emergency alert from Level  to Level , local officials said. That leaves only Beijing and Tianjin municipalities, Hebei and Hubei provinces, and parts of the Tibet autonomous region still with Level  alerts. Level  is the highest of the fourlevel public health alert. Duan Yufei, director of Guangdong Provincial Health Commission, said the provinces strategy of guarding against imported cases and a rebound in indigenous cases remains unchanged. He promised Guangdong will not relax its vigilance as the province still faces challenges in the weeks to come. Guangdong is a large economy and the most populous province in the country, and the province that borders Hong Kong and Macao has many annual international events and exchanges, Duan told a news conference in the provincial capital Guangzhou. He would not rule out the possibility that sporadic cases might arise. After lowering the response alert, all hotels, restaurants, supermarkets and bazaars will fully resume production and business while parks, scenic spots, entertainment venues, libraries and museums will also gradually open to the public through advance online reservations, placing limits on the number of visitors, limiting the flow of people and other effective measures to prevent a new outbreak, he said. He urged people to pay special attention to personal hygiene to prevent infection. Wang Chuang, deputy director of Guangdong Provincial Department of Education, said more than  million primary and high school students will gradually return to campuses starting on Monday, when more than . million students from , schools in the province head back to school. Qin Tiehe, a senior disease expert at Guangdong Provincial Peoples Hospital, said doctors will pay followup visits to COVID patients who have been cured and discharged from hospitals to help prevent and control the recurrence of the disease. As of Thursday, Guangdong reported , confirmed patients, including  imported cases, with only six hospitalized for treatment. In Shanghai, the municipal government reiterated its guideline regarding wearing masks. In addition to those who have feverlike symptoms, people must wear masks when they visit hospitals, schools, welfare facilities and take metros and longdistance buses, authorities said. Meanwhile people are recommended to wear masks in crowded venues and confined spaces. Wu Huanyu, an official with the Shanghai Center for Disease Prevention and Control, said office buildings, shopping malls and the metro system can switch on central air conditioning with regular disinfection while increasing the input of external fresh air. Shanghai has reported no local transmissions since early March. As of Thursday, the metropolis still has  COVID patients from overseas in hospital and six suspected cases under observation.