Overseas media tour Shanghai schools after campuses reopen
2020/5/8 21:26
The principal of Zhongshan School in Shanghai and two students take questions from members of the overseas media, on May , . Photo provided to chinadaily.com.cn Filing in campus in order, taking the health crisis in their stride, and undaunted were how some members of the media from overseas described how Shanghai teenagers appeared on campus when school resumed for them following online study at home lasting more than two months. Fortynine journalists toured two middle schools on Thursday, the second day after students in the thirdyear of junior high and the secondyear of senior high returned to school. They spotlighted the worlds close attention on the city, as well as the countrys gradual return to school, while some educational institutions in countries hit by COVID are pondering campus plans. The students mental wellbeing after staying home since January was a focus in the media interviews. Agence France Presse quoted Feng Zhigang, principal of the elite Shanghai High School, as saying that resuming classes is a responsible action, not only for the childrens studies, but also for their physical and mental health. At home there is a lack of social activities, so longterm online lessons more or less will bring some problems, he said, adding that its so far, so good on that front. A story by Reuters said that students were thrilled when returning to class after months of lockdown despite compulsory face masks, temperature checks, ubiquitous hygiene products and the constant reminder of keeping a meter distance from others, which might render an atmosphere different from before. Feng was quoted in the Reuters story, saying that the school had a psychological guidance team to assist students during the isolation of online classes, which could never be a substitute for being reunited with friends and teachers in person. Teachers and students being together, this is the most effective, Feng said. Some students said they were not daunted, but instead, had become used to such preventive measures, which have become thenew normal in public spaces in the municipality. In an interview with China Daily on April , when the first group of students C those in the final year of senior and junior high C resumed classes on campus in the city. While implementing the everstrict health standards and epidemic control measures and plans, the school didnt put excessive posters regarding contagion control on the walls to make students feel relaxed when returning to the school atmosphere that they were used to,said Wang Sui, vicepresident of the No  Junior Middle School Affiliated with East China Normal University. In Shanghai, students in other middle school grades, as well as pupils inthe two senior grades at primary schools will resume campus study on May . Members of the media tour Zhongshan School in Shanghai on Thursday, the second day of school for students in the thirdyear of junior high and the secondyear of senior high. The event drew the participation of representatives from  overseas media organizations.?Photo provided to chinadaily.com.cn Members of the media tour Zhongshan School in Shanghai on Thursday, the second day of school for students in the thirdyear of junior high and the secondyear of senior high. The event drew the participation of representatives from  overseas media organizations. Photo provided to chinadaily.com.cn