Solidarity shines in special Olympic moments
2021/8/8 6:40
Editors note The IOC approved adding together into the Olympic motto. The new motto now reads Faster, Higher, Stronger  Together after it was unanimously approved at the th IOC Session on July , . At Tokyo Olympics, athletes encourage each other, congratulate others sincerely and give warm hugs to others. Thats a signal of solidarity that IOC is keen to stress. Gold medalist Lamont Marcell Jacobs of Italy celebrates Su Bingtian of China after the mens m final at the Tokyo Olympics on Aug , .  Kasumi Ishikawa of Japan, center, shakes hands with Sun Yingsha of China after their table tennis womens team gold medal match at the  Summer Olympics in Tokyo on Aug , .  Gold medalists Gianmarco Tamberi right of Italy and Mutaz Essa Barshim of Qatar wear protective face masks while celebrating on the podium in the mens high jump in Tokyo on Aug , .  Silver medalist Rayssa Leal of Brazil left congratulates gold medal winner Momiji Nishiya of Japan after winning the womens street skateboarding finals at the  Summer Olympics in Tokyo on July , .  Pictured, from left, are silver medalist Eko Yuli Irawan of Indonesia, gold medalist Li Fabin of China and bronze medalist Igor Son of Kazakhstan, as they congratulate each other by touching elbows on the podium after the mens kg  group A competition during the weightlifting events of the Tokyo  Olympic Games in Tokyo on July , .  Gold medalist Clarisse Agbegnenou in white of France celebrates with Tina Trstenjak of Slovenia after womens kg judo in Tokyo, on July , .  Pictured, from left, are silver medalists Chinas Chen Qingchen and Jia Yifan, gold medalists Greysia Polii and Apriyani Rahayu from Indonesia, and bronze medalists Kim Soyeong and Kong Heeyong from South Korea, as they celebrate together during the medal ceremony of the womens doubles badminton competition at the  Summer Olympics in Tokyo on Aug , .  Armand Duplantis right of Sweden and Renaud Lavillenie of France support each other during the mens pole vault final at Olympic Stadium in Tokyo on Aug , .  Simone Biles of the United States congratulates Guan Chenchen of China after competing in the womens balance beam final at the Tokyo Olympics on Aug , .  Gold medalist Anita Wlodarczyk right from Poland hugs silver medalist Zheng Wang from China in womens hammer throw at the  Summer Olympics in Tokyo on Aug , .  Luis Scola left of Argentina shakes hands with Pau Gasol of Spain after the mens basketball match in Group C at Saitama Super Arena, in Saitama, Japan on July , . 