Japan marks th anniversary of Hiroshima atomic bombing
2021/8/7 10:06
Japans Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga wearing a protective face mask, places a wreath on the cenotaph for the victims on the th anniversary of the worlds first atomic bombing in Hiroshima, Japan, on Aug , .  Leaders call for progress toward a world free of nuclear weapons TOKYOHiroshima marked the th anniversary of the worlds first atomic bombing on Friday, as the mayor of the Japanese city urged global leaders to unite to eliminate nuclear weapons, just as they are united against the coronavirus. Mayor Kazumi Matsui urged world leaders to commit to nuclear disarmament as seriously as they tackle the pandemic that the international community recognizes as threat to humanity. Nuclear weapons, developed to win wars, are a threat of total annihilation that we can certainly end, if all nations work together, Matsui said. No sustainable society is possible with these weapons continually poised for indiscriminate slaughter. Virus concerns meant the general public were once again kept away, with the ceremony broadcast online instead. On Thursday, United Nations SecretaryGeneral Antonio Guterres called for progress toward a world free of nuclear weapons in a video message to mark the anniversary. I am deeply concerned by the lack of progress toward the goal of a nuclearfree world, he said. I call on all states that possess nuclear weapons to adopt risk reduction measures, individually and jointly. The only guarantee against the use of nuclear weapons is their total elimination. The United States dropped the worlds first atomic bomb on Hiroshima on Aug , , destroying the city and killing , people. It dropped a second bomb three days later on Nagasaki, killing ,. Japan surrendered on Aug  that year, ending World War II and its nearly halfcentury of aggression in Asia. But countries stockpiled nuclear weapons during the Cold War and a standoff continues to this day. The Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons took effect in January after years of civil effort joined by atomic bombing survivors, or hibakusha. Though more than  countries have ratified it, the treaty notably lacks the US and other nuclear powers as well as Japan, which has relied on the US nuclear umbrella. Matsui renewed his demand that his own government immediately sign and ratify the treaty and join the discussion, to live up to the longcherished wish of hibakusha. He also demanded Japan to provide productive mediation between nuclear and nonnuclear weapons states. Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga, who attended the ceremony in Hiroshima, did not mention the treaty but instead stressed the need for a more realistic approach to bridge the nuclear and nonnuclear weapons states. Suga later said he does not plan to sign the treaty. The treaty lacks support not only from the nuclear weapons states including the United States, but also from many countries that do not possess nuclear arms, Suga said. Whats appropriate is to seek a passage to realistically promote nuclear disarmament. Lasting injuries Suga also apologized for inadvertently skipping parts of his speech including a pledge to pursue efforts toward achieving a nuclearfree world as head of the worlds only country to have suffered atomic attacks and be fully aware of its inhumanity. Many hibakusha have lasting injuries and illnesses linked to the bombs and radiation exposure, and faced discrimination in Japanese society. The government began to medically support certified survivors in  after more than  years of effort by the survivors. According to the government, , survivors, whose average age is now almost , are certified as hibakusha and eligible for government medical support as of March. Suga announced last month that the medical benefits would be extended to  Hiroshima survivors who had been denied aid because they were outside a governmentset boundary. The victims were exposed to radioactive black rain that fell in the city after the bombing and fought a long legal battle for their health problems to be recognized. The ceremony at the Hiroshima Peace Memorial Park was significantly scaled down because of the coronavirus pandemic. Agencies  Xinhua