Turkey eyes relaxation India struggles
2020/5/8 0:00
ISTANBULTurkey said on Wednesday it has brought its coronavirus outbreak under control, two months after it erupted across the country, and will set out new social guidelines and business practices to prevent any resurgence. Turkeys number of COVID cases, at , by Wednesday, is among the worlds highest. But it has kept the death toll well below levels in Western Europe and the United States, and the government is now looking to gradually reopen the economy. Health Minister Fahrettin Koca said the governments science council would publish guidelines for businesses to follow as they resume operations, setting out precautions to avoid an upswing in new cases. Turks should also wear masks and respect social distancing in public, as part of a new controlled social life that would, for example, restrict the numbers of people allowed into shopping malls and introduce changes at places such as hairdressers. The country is also preparing to test , citizens to determine how widely the virus has spread among the population, Koca said. The sample would be done with both polymerase chain reaction tests that are used to detect antigens from viral infections and with antibody tests. But Koca did not say when the testing would begin. In Israel, the health ministry reported  new cases on Wednesday, the lowest daily increase since March , taking the countrys total infections to ,, and the death toll to . Bonfires ban Earlier in the day, the Israeli government banned the lighting of bonfires from May  to May  to prevent gatherings on the evening of May , the annual Lag Baomer Jewish Holiday when families and friends gather in celebrations around the fires until late into the night. In India, the number of infections crossed the , mark on Thursday, with the pace of new cases showing no signs of abating despite a strict weekslong lockdown. Australias two most populous states on Thursday refused to allow a oneday reprieve from strict limits on personal movement for Mothers Day this weekend, even as the countrys rate of new cases remains low. The premiers of New South Wales and Victoria said the states roughly  million residents,  percent of the countrys population, would have to stick to existing restrictions on movement on Mothers Day, which is celebrated nationally on Sunday. NSW recently eased a stayathome order to allow social visits in groups of up to two, while some other states have also taken tentative steps to unwind lockdown measures. But most have kept restrictions broadly in place. Australia has confirmed just under , COVID cases, including  deaths. The federal government has said it will discuss the possible relaxation of nationwide social distancing rules on Friday at a meeting of an emergency cabinet formed to deal with the crisis, which includes the leaders of the states and territories. Separately, the Ruby Princess, a cruise ship being investigated in Australia for sparking coronavirus infections, anchored in Manila Bay on Thursday to bring Filipino crew members home. Agencies  Xinhua ? Jewish worshippers pray in an partitioned area at the Western Wall Plaza in Jerusalems Old City, on Wednesday, following curbs on large gatherings amid the COVID outbreak. MUAMMAR AWADXINHUA ? ?