Bolsonaros aide infected Cuba receives donations
2020/5/8 0:00
SAO PAULOBrazilian President Jair Bolsonaros spokesman has tested positive for the novel coronavirus, as the country registered a record number of cases and deaths on Wednesday. Army General Otavio Rego Barros, , one of the administrations top public figures, is home following all recommended protocols after his positive test result was confirmed on Tuesday, said the presidents office on Wednesday. The nation registered , new cases in the latest hour period, taking the total number to ,. The death toll stands at ,. Health Minister Nelson Teich said an increasing number of local authorities may have to institute lockdowns, as infections continue to grow in the country. In Argentina, President Alberto Fernandez on Wednesday ruled out an immediate exit from the countrys lockdown, saying it would lead to the death of thousands. Opposition parties, economists and business leaders have stepped up demands for the government to relax strict quarantine measures to allow industries to reopen. Exiting the quarantine in the terms they are demanding, will lead to the death for thousands of Argentines because we cannot control the virus, Fernandez said. He said the governments policy had succeeded in slowing down the rate of infections, and held out the possibility of gradually loosening the lockdown measures starting on Monday. By Wednesday, Argentina had registered , cases with  deaths. In Colombia, President Ivan Duque on Wednesday declared a second state of emergency to support sectors of the economy that will remain shut for an extended period until May . Mexico on Wednesday reported , new cases and  new fatalities, taking the total in the country to , cases with , deaths. Meanwhile, Cuba on Wednesday received donations of medical supplies from the International Department of the Communist Party of China Central Committee amid the Caribbean nations efforts to fight the pandemic. The supplies included some , surgical face masks and , N face masks, and more donations from China will continue to arrive on the island throughout the week, Chinese Ambassador to Cuba Chen Xi said. Since Cuba confirmed its first three COVID cases on March , the Chinese government, companies and social groups have been helping the Caribbean country with medical supplies. As of Wednesday, total infections in Cuba were , with  deaths. Agencies  Xinhua ?