Graffiti raises awareness on virus in Kenya
2020/5/8 0:00
Two youth groups have taken to graffiti to create awareness on the dangers of coronavirus in Nairobi, Kenya. Having come together last month, the two groups, the Wahenga Youth Group and the Kushites Kreations Youth Group, have been using graffiti, placards, music and social media to bring together the community groups to raise awareness about the virus. According to Samuel Omare, leader of the Wahenga Youth Group and an advocate for the Public Space Network, a collective of civil society, public and private stakeholders and urban experts with an interest in creating a cleaner, greener and safer Nairobi, they have been rehabilitating public spaces since . When the pandemic struck, they decided to use their expertise to sensitize the masses since the public spaces they rehabilitate are ideal places for conveying messages to the public. Our work has been recognized globally, and the youth in our community see us as pacesetters. That is why most of the messages we spread through our art attracts attention, and our main aim is to make our community pay attention to the directives that can keep them safe, Omare said. We work on a volunteer basis and when the government challenged the youth to use skills to help in the fight against coronavirus, we decided to convert our beautification work into a medium through which we can remind members of our community about the existing threat from the virus, Omare added. In April, Mutahi Kagwe, Kenyas health cabinet secretary, urged the youth to use their energy and organizational prowess to help the country in the fight against the coronavirus pandemic. He told the youth to join the government in creating awareness among Kenyans on the need to follow the directives issued by the government. Antony Kihoro, an artist from Kushites Kreations who has been painting murals, said that art is the main weapon used by the group in the fight against coronavirus. According to him, the group may not be able to help the poor with sanitizers, face masks or even food during these difficult times but through art, it is able to remind people to stay safe. Our art is unique and it draws attention, especially of children. That is why we use it to spread such messages. People get attracted to art, and once they read the message, some awareness is raised in them, Kihoro said. The groups messages focus on regulations issued by the ministry of health, but in a way the community can understand. Kenya, which has reported  confirmed cases and  deaths, announced it would start mass testing in a bid to gain control over the virus. However, public response to mass testing has been lackluster. Groups like Wahenga and Kushites Kreations are hoping to raise their awareness levels. otiatochinadaily.com.cn A mural done through the joint efforts of two youth groups draws the attention of a passerby to the coronavirus pandemic in Nairobi, Kenya, on Tuesday. OTIATO OPALIFOR CHINA DAILY Artist Antony Kihoro paints a mural to sensitize the local community about the virus in Nairobi. OTIATO OPALIFOR CHINA DAILY Samuel Omare far right from a civil society advisory group in front of a mural in Kayole Township, Nairobi. OTIATO OPALIFOR CHINA DAILY