Chinese giant equipment contributes to metro construction in Moscow
2020/5/7 15:18
A shield machine produced by the China Railway Construction Corporation is operated in Moscows subway on Dec , .  MOSCOW  A new gigantic Chinesemade shield machine has been munching mud and gravel under the ground of Moscow since Tuesday, propelling ChinaRussia cooperation in infrastructure construction. The large equipment, named Victory, was developed and produced by China Railway Construction Corporation Limited CRCC. The shield machine has been working for a section of the Large Circle Line or the Third Interchange Contour in Moscow, excavating two tunnels with a total length of nearly  km. With a diameter of . meters and a weight of , tons, the titan is the largest Chinesemade shield machine working in Europe. Xue Liqiang, head of the CRCC metro construction project in Moscow, said Weve all put our hearts into it. All components were shipped from the Chinese city of Shanghai to Russias St. Petersburg via the Suez Canal in  days, and then to Moscow. The machine is specially customized to the Moscow metro construction environment and it can certainly deal with the citys harsh winter, said Gao Yutian, head of the section. When the machine was being developed, we made technical specifications for it ... We tried to make full use of all previous experience, said Konstantin Orlov, deputy chief engineer of the section. Although six Chinese welders were unable to come to Russia due to COVID restrictions, the project team hired  Russian welders and other skilled workers to assemble the machine, with the help of Chinese specialists online. The machine was assembled in  days and launched as scheduled, which was indeed a victory, Moscows Deputy Mayor Andrei Bochkarev said. For Xue, the safety of all personnel weighs heavily on his mind. His team has taken precautionary measures, including disinfecting working places, checking workers temperatures, and requiring maskwearing, to prevent the spread of the coronavirus. The project is under the close attention of the governments of the two countries. Our large shield machine will demonstrate its capabilities through its work, Xue said.