Chinese FM calls on BRICS countries to make right call in face of COVID outbreak
2020/5/7 14:08
A pedestrian wearing a mask walks past the Elmhurst Hospital Center as the spread of the coronavirus disease COVID continues, New York City, US, April , .  As the coronavirus began to spread in New York in midMarch, I retreated to work from home, a threebedroom apartment I share with my wife, two children and inlaws who are here to help us take care of the kids. Having fed ourselves on news about Chinas hardwon war with the virus, we were determined to keep the invisible enemy at bay. So I fortified my home with a plenitude of medical alcohol, handsanitizing liquid and masks, including some Ns. I also began to order everything, including food and baby diapers, from the internet. We wanted to be so wellprepared, with the goal of being the last persons to be knocked down by the virus. But on April , around  days after Governor Andrew Cuomo announced New York on Pause from March , the virus somehow had broken into our house. My motherinlaw, who never stepped out of the door of our apartment since we started to shelter in place, was the first victim, showing all symptoms of the novel coronavirus  coughing, fever, fatigue, chills and loss of taste  then my fatherinlaw, and then me. How did we get the virus? That is the biggest question for me, though I know there are hundreds of more important questions about the evasive virus boggling the mind of scientists around the world. I have no choice but to suspect the food packages we ordered online as the culprit, because we had almost zero contact with anybody else over the past three weeks. At the same time, Forest Hills, Queens, where we live, has emerged as the epicenter of New Yorks raging outbreak, together with a group of adjoining neighborhoods  Corona, Elmhurst, East Elmhurst and Jackson Heights. Mindful of the fact that senior people are much more vulnerable to the virus, I and my wife, who had to leave our apartment and seek shelter with two kids at an apartment of my colleagues who left for China weeks ago, embarked on a frenetic search for what can and should be done for her parents, both in their s. The first thing that we did was visit Elmhurst Hospital for a coronavirus test. Before we went, I called the New York City coronavirus hotline on April  and was told that a test can only be done for those who are suffering severe symptoms like difficulty breathing and therefore have been admitted into the hospital. Fearing that it would be too late for the folks to wait that long, we went to the outdoor makeshift tent for testing at Elmhurst Hospital, where we found four medical staff members and one woman waiting to be tested. I tried to describe the symptoms, but was interrupted by a medical staffer who asked You want a test or not? The test was extremely fast, about  minutes, including all paperwork, but it took six days to get a result. Meanwhile, my motherinlaws condition was deteriorating fast. Unable to wait for the outcome of the test, I took my inlaws to a nearby urgent care center, where a Chinese American doctor told us It must be coronavirus, and no need to wait for the result. At the urgent care center, a scan performed on my motherinlaw clearly showed a lung damaged by coronavirus. Medicines were prescribed, and that was three days before we were informed of the test results, which, to no ones surprise, came back positive. There were anxious days ahead We found ourselves on the verge of desperation when my motherinlaws arterial oxygen level turned precariously low. Thanks to my colleagues, friends and those within the Chinese news media and diplomatic service in New York, who helped with every imaginable thing from recommending doctors and arranging for hospitals, in case an oxygen tube were needed, we were able to keep calm even in the event of the worstcase scenario. Luckily for us, that scenario never materialized. Now, the dark memories are receding, although not as quickly as we would like. When you are sick, you become homesick. One night when my fatherinlaw felt so uncomfortable, he knocked at my door, asking me whether there was any possibility for him to go back to China. I had to patiently talk him out of that impractical idea, but I understand that his angst was shared by many Chinese trapped here, where the pandemic has claimed a record number of lives. To cheer him up, I joked about renting a private plane, and shared with him information that it might cost as much as , yuan. I had thought he would give up the notion at that point. However, he peeped into my eyes under the dim light of the living room and said Why not? As we were recovering from the illness, my worries didnt relent. During my minute walk last week from my home to a pharmacy, I did a simple survey with my own eyes  people walking on the street, alone or with others, werent wearing masks. Starting this month, more and more people are going back to work. Is the US ready for reopening, with a daily death toll of around , and so many refusing to don a mask in public spaces? What have I gained from my familys coronavirus ordeal? An abundance of love and warmth from my colleagues, the caring from the doctors we have visited or called, especially my family doctor, Dr Zhang. And maybe it made me a better cook after taking care of my inlaws for weeks. But I doubt it, because recipes from a Baidu search can easily be forgotten. What have I lost? I havent seen my son and daughter for nearly a month. But big hugs and kisses can compensate for that pain of separation. And then theres the  pounds I shed, for which I declare no compensation is needed.