Number of domestic virus cases now fewer than  in country
2020/5/7 11:38
? Nurses work at a drivethru testing site for the coronavirus disease at North Shore University Hospital in Manhasset, New York, May , .  With deaths topping ,, pressure grows on Washington as states reopen With the number of COVID deaths topping , in the United States, the federal government has come under increasing pressure over its handling of an outbreak that accounts for more than a quarter of the reported worldwide loss of life to the virus. Deaths in the country reached , early on Wednesday, according to the Center for Systems Science and Engineering at Johns Hopkins University. The US had recorded ,, cases by that time, also the highest in the world, the universitys tally shows. Globally, over ,, people have been infected. New York state has suffered the most, with , cases and , deaths. In terms of deaths, other hardhit states include New Jersey with ,, Michigan ,, and Massachusetts ,, the data showed. After weeks of shutdown measures, many US states have begun to slowly open up. But health experts have expressed concerns that premature moves could lead to a spike in new infections. VicePresident Mike Pence confirmed on Tuesday that the White House will wind down the coronavirus task force at the end of May after a forecasting model often cited by the Trump administration doubled its deathtoll projection to reflect a relaxation of socialdistancing guidelines. More than  states have reopened or eased restrictions, and more are expected to do so soon. In Arizona, which was visited on Tuesday by President Donald Trump, stores may reopen by the end of the week, said Governor Doug Ducey, a Republican. Pence, who is in charge of the task force, confirmed a New York Times report earlier on Tuesday about the teams closing, telling reporters that his goal was to start handing responsibility back to government agencies by May , Memorial Day. I think were starting to look at the Memorial Day window, early June window as a time when we could begin to transition back to having our agencies begin to manage  our national response in a more traditional manner, he said. Pence said the winding down of the task force was a reflection of the tremendous progress weve made as a country. Pences briefing with reporters came minutes before Trump touched down in Arizona, where he toured a Honeywell International aerospace facility in Phoenix that makes protective masks. In Arizona, Trump said We cant keep our country closed. We have to open our country. ... Will some people be badly affected? Yes. The president said he would continue to hear from experts such as Anthony Fauci, director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, and Deborah Birx, the White House coronavirus response coordinator, as well as other doctors. Different form They will be heard from, and so will other doctors, and so will other experts in the field, Trump said. We will have something in a different form. The Times report said White House officials informed the taskforce members of the plan to finish their operations in the coming weeks. But Fauci told CBS News on Tuesday morning that he hadnt been told the task force would be shutting down. Thats not true. Ive been in every task force meeting, and thats not what they are doing, he said. As he was departing the White House for Arizona, Trump said he would allow Fauci to testify before the Republicanled Senate, but not the Democratled House of Representatives, calling the lower chamber a setup. The House is a bunch of Trumphaters, Trump said. Xinhua and agencies contributed to this story.