Over  percent Chinese resume work survey
2020/5/7 10:41
People visit Tamar Park in Hong Kong on May , . ANTHONY WALLACEAFP Hong Kong recorded no new cases of COVID on Wednesday, marking the th day in a row of no locally transmitted infections, with schools preparing to bring back students to their classrooms. Wednesday was also the first day an online registration system began to receive applications from Hong Kong residents for washable face masks offered by the government. As of  pm, more than . million residents had registered for the reusable mask since online application started at  am, according to the Innovation and Technology Bureau. The locally developed mask, each of which costs the government HK US, will be delivered to the applicants residence within two weeks of registration. Extra disposable masks will also be handed out to students across the city, as they are expected to return to schools in phases from May  after over three months of campus shutdown due to the novel coronavirus outbreak. Tang Fei, principal of Heung To Secondary School in Tseung Kwan O, welcomed the class resumption arrangement, which allows schools and students enough time to prepare better, with coronavirus outbreak abating in the city. We have three weeks to prepare. Those students staying on the mainland also have enough time to finish their quarantine periods before returning to the campus, he said. In a letter sent by the Education Bureau, schools are advised to avoid students sitting facetoface, and to stagger activity timetables so that student wont gather in too big crowds. In line with the bureaus guidelines, students will only attend classes for half a day in Tangs school. He said makeup classes will have to be arranged during the summer break. A school term usually ends around July . We may have to extend it for three weeks to the end of July, Tang added. Some schools may also choose to start the next term ahead of schedule. The same day, Secretary for Education Kevin Yeung Yunhung said schools can make their own decisions based on their students needs. About , kindergarten, primary and secondary pupils had switched to online learning after the Lunar New Year holiday with suspension of oncampus classes. The government is currently in talks with the Shenzhen authorities about , crossboundary students return and the public health risk they may pose to both sides, said Yeung. The Hong Kong government has spared the students from a mandatory twoweek quarantine to allow them to attend schools, which is only feasible after Shenzhen adopts the same exemption. They go back to the mainland every day. Its impractical if they are required to be quarantined for  days in Shenzhen, said Yeung. A backup plan for crossboundary students would be distant learning from the mainland, he added. On Tuesday, the government announced the reopening of schools, along with the easing of restrictions on operations of leisure venues. Gyms, gaming arcades, mahjong parlors, cinemas, beauty salons, amusement and massage centers, as well as bars, have been allowed to resume their operations from Friday, though at a limited capacity with antiinfection measures in place. Speaking on a radio program Wednesday, Secretary for Food and Health Sophia Chan Siuchee said the government will tighten its curbs on social gatherings again if the situation does not appear to be satisfactory once curbs are lifted.