Longawaited holiday ignites spending revival in China
2020/5/7 10:23
Tourists visit Sanfang Qixiang, a wellpreserved historical architectural complex, in Fuzhou, southeast Chinas Fujian Province, May , , the first day of the International Labor Day holiday.  BEIJING  Fast food restaurant Awen once again recorded over , monthly orders as customers with newly issued digital coupons flooded the eatery situated near North Bund in Shanghai. Customers are eligible to receive a shopping voucher worth eight yuan about . at half price. The steep discounts drove up Awens orders during the fiveday Labor Day holiday that ended Tuesday, expanding six times compared with the preholiday period. As the novel coronavirus epidemic in China becomes more subdued, the country is trying to get consumption back on its feet, with the majority of shopping malls and restaurants reopening and a large number of consumers returning to stores and cafes during the holiday. Shanghai, for instance, launched a shopping festival to spur pentup spending. Awen was among many merchants from high street to main street to receive a muchneeded revenue boost. The shopping spree runs from May Day holiday to the end of June and features more than  online and offline activities. Merchants are opening up their wallets, offering inviting discounts and dishing out shopping coupons to spur spending. Combined sales in the citys online and offline channels hit . billion yuan in the  hours following the launch event on Monday evening, data from China UnionPay, Alipay and WeChat showed. Catering, retailing and tourism were among the key sectors reignited during this years holiday, which saw signs of a rebound and indicated the countrys unabated economic vitality and flourishing consumption market. Hotpot, crayfish, dessert and milk tea regained popularity among foodies around the country. The first three days of the holiday witnessed residents in Wuhan, the city once locked down due to the epidemic, spend noticeably more on latenight snacks. Particularly, people are paying more attention to dining hygiene during the holiday by enjoying separate meals when dining out instead of sharing dishes with others. Xiamen, Jinan and other tourist destinations in China also issued guidelines on separate meals. The stayathome economy also rose against the headwind of the virus. Consumers spent big as they redecorated their homes and improved their cooking skills. Transactions of major decoration materials doubled year on year from May  to , while that of domestic appliances and cookware skyrocketed by  percent and  percent, respectively, data from Alibabas online marketplace Tmall showed. Although outbound travel is discouraged, people were still busy shopping around the world. Tmall recorded a yearonyear expansion of  percent in sales of imported goods during the first three days of the holiday. In addition, people enhanced their awareness of safety and health. The sales of masks on Tmall soared by  percent year on year, and that of disinfection products more than doubled. After a relaxation of travel restrictions amid dwindling COVID cases in the country, China saw nearly  million domestic tourist trips during the holiday, and domestic tourism revenue generated during the period totaled . billion yuan, according to the Ministry of Culture and Tourism. Tourists are shifting their focus from outbound tours to travel near their homes during this holiday, and they are looking for a better and safer travel experience, said Wang Xiaosong, chairman of online travel agency Lvmama.com. Authorities have urged the safe and orderly reopening of tourist sites across the country, stressing that efforts should be made to control passenger flows, prevent the gatherings of crowds and implement reservation systems. The emergence of pentup consumption during the holiday was a result of various consumption stimuli and promotion activities launched by the government, analysts said, estimating that the recovery of Chinas huge consumer market will pick up as policies gradually take effect and more favorable policies follow. Chinese authorities emphasized during a meeting in April the need to expand domestic demand and the necessity to release the potential of consumption by stimulating consumer spending and increasing public spending as appropriate. Holiday promotions were stronger than ever before this year partly thanks to the combination of online and offline proconsumption approaches, and consumers embraced the fresh consumption mode in which they received digital coupons and shopped at physical stores, said Guan Lixin, a researcher with the Chinese Academy of International Trade and Economic Cooperation. However, the gradual recovery of consumption entails more detailed policies to boost consumers confidence, smooth the consumptiondriven economic cycle and scale up domestic demands contribution to the economy, Guan noted.