Shanghai Disneyland set to reopen next week
2020/5/7 10:18
? A man wearing a protective face mask queues at a B  Q store in Liverpool, following the outbreak of the coronavirus disease, Liverpool, Britain, May , .  Prime minister pledges a doubling of testing capacity by the end of May Prime Minister Boris Johnson has signaled that the United Kingdom could start easing some of its novel coronavirus lockdown measures from Monday, while also committing to a new goal of doubling testing capacity to , per day by the end of the month. During his first clash with new Labour Party leader Keir Starmer in Parliament on Wednesday, Johnson confirmed he would clarify plans to begin lifting the lockdown on Sunday. The government announced it had hit its target of , tests on Friday, but that number has since fallen back. The prime minister said capacity currently exceeds demand and the government was taking steps to address that. Ministers and scientific advisers have stressed that the country has passed the initial peak and that a new strategy of test, track and trace will be rolled out to stop further spikes overwhelming the National Health Service. Johnson also said he bitterly regrets the virus crisis in care homes. He said It has been enraging to see the difficulties weve had in supplying PPE personal protective equipment to those who need it, but that the government is now engaged in a massive plan to ramp up domestic supply. During Wednesdays news briefing, Housing Secretary Robert Jenrick confirmed the number of UK deaths attributed to COVID had increased by , taking the nations toll to ,, which remains the highest in Europe. However, data from the Office of National Statistics released on Tuesday showed the UKs true fatality toll was about , more. It comes as Chancellor of the Exchequer Rishi Sunak is reported to be considering winding down the UK governments furlough program from July. Official figures show that around a fifth of the workforce has been furloughed, while more than  million have applied for unemployment benefits since the start of the lockdown. The program  that allows employers to furlough workers on  percent of regular pay  has been crucial in keeping smaller businesses afloat and preventing a steeper rise in unemployment, employers said. Latest figures showed the program is covering . million jobs, and UK treasury officials are now studying how to phase it out without triggering redundancies. We want ways to wean people off and get this right, one government figure told The Times. The shocking impact of the pandemic on the British economy has been laid bare by new figures and analysis published on Wednesday. The lockdown enforced on March  has put vast numbers of companies on the brink, according to a report published by the CEBR think tank and polling company Opinium. It said one in  companies  some , businesses  are at high risk of going bust, and more than , companies will not survive if the lockdown lasts for another month. It also warned a second wave of infections and a subsequent lockdown could prove fatal for the business community. Based on a poll of more than  companies, it predicted . million companies could not survive another three months of lockdown. Pablo Shah, senior economist at CEBR, told the Daily Mail that the findings provide the first glimpse of the deep and longterm scars that the coronavirus crisis is set to infli ct upon the UK economy. According to a survey from IHS MarkitCIPS, the UKs services sector contracted at a record pace last month. The IHS MarkitCIPS purchasing managers index, or PMI  where anything below  represents decline  dropped to . in April. This is the worst score since the survey started in , and well below the . recorded in the financial crisis of November . Another report by the Resolution Foundation think tank warned that youth unemployment could rise by , this year and scar the longterm prospects of a generation. It predicted the figure could top  million, more than doubling the current level of ,. With around , people aged between  and  set to leave education this year, the report warned the corona class of could face years of reduced pay and limited prospects. It also warned that younger people who have just joined the workforce are more likely to be made redundant as many companies adopt a last in, first out policy. In other developments, Neil Ferguson, the professor whose advice to the UK prime minister led to the nations lockdown, has quit as a government adviser on the virus after admitting an error of judgement. Ferguson said he regretted undermining the messages on social distancing after The Telegraph reported that a woman he was said to be in a relationship with visited his home during the lockdown. His modelling of the viruss transmission suggested , people could die without drastic action. In a statement, Ferguson said I accept I made an error of judgement and took the wrong course of action. I have therefore stepped back from my involvement in Sage Scientific Advisory Group for Emergencies. I acted in the belief that I was immune, having tested positive for coronavirus and completely isolated myself for almost two weeks after developing symptoms. I deeply regret any undermining of the clear messages around the continued need for social distancing. He also called the government advice on social distancing unequivocal, adding that it was there to protect all of us. Security Minister James Brokenshire told the BBC that a range of experts will continue to support ministers following Fergusons resignation. Elsewhere, Germanys top soccer league  the Bundesliga  can return this month behind closed doors after Chancellor Angela Merkel confirmed it had been given government approval. The league will decide the exact return date tomorrow, with the weekend of May  a possibility.