UK may ease bans next week
2020/5/7 9:00
Amid the coronavirus shutdown, motor sports fans have had to suffice with virtual action such as the eNASCAR iRacing Pro Invitational Series pictured. Real NASCAR racing is slated to return on May , without spectators, at tracks in North and South Carolina.  NASCAR has given the green light to restarting its season on May , with an ambitious plan to run four Cup Series races and seven races in  days at Darlington Raceway in South Carolina and Charlotte Motor Speedway in North Carolina. We have a lot of confidence in our plan, NASCAR vicepresident John Bobo said this week. We know we have to work together as an industry to keep our own folks safe, to keep each community safe. But thats the discipline and the safety culture of NASCAR. Were the organization that puts cars on the track four days a week at  miles an hour. We think its that same discipline and eye towards safety that everybody in our industry has that is going to help us execute on this. There wont be any fans in attendance at any of the seven races. Teams will be spread out throughout the garages and infield lots and everyone will be wearing masks and will have their temperatures checked. Were not an indoor or outdoor sport in the traditional sense we have drivers with helmets, and they are in racecars, said Bobo. There are some unique things about our sport that we feel provided us the opportunity to get back if we could, to where we knew we were going to be safe. That was first and foremost. If we didnt feel like we had the support of the local community, health officials, the state, you wouldnt see us racing until November. That was a key for us to make sure that was in place. Financial factors were no doubt a major consideration, too. Teams across NASCARs top three series were struggling to match sponsor revenue with costs before the COVID pandemic brought racing to a halt in midMarch. With no events and sponsor revenues depleted, several teams started cutting pay for employees. The midMay restart gives NASCAR the opportunity to run each of the races that it had on its Cup, Xfinity and Truck Series schedules at the beginning of the year and fulfill its TV contractsa primary source of revenue. NASCAR is trying to get back to racing while also waiting to see what happens. If it goes off without a major hitch, every race will be completed and the condensed schedule will serve as a huge hook for TV viewership. We feel like we have a schedule mapped out for all three series that gets us through the season finales, Bobo said. We feel like its pretty well baked. We feel like weve had the right cadence with where states are, where health officials may be. Certainly we have backups to backups to backups. I would say we started with about seven pencils and a lot of erasers and have moved to a pen now in terms of saying to our broadcast partners and tracks that this is what we believe we can collectively do. But until we are racing and until we see how things take place, until we see how this virus affects things down the road, we cant say for sure.