children in New York state hospitalized with syndrome potentially linked to COVID
2020/5/7 7:21
Members of the first group of imported COVID patients diagnosed at Suifenhe port in Northeast Chinas Heilongjiang province who were cured and discharged from the hospital on April ,  wave goodbye to medics.Photo by Pan SonggangFor chinadaily.com.cn With special permits and scanned health codes, residents of Suifenhe, Heilongjiang province, no longer have to live under strict lockdown, said a statement issued by the citys COVID epidemic control department on Wednesday. Wearing face masks and undergoing temperature checks remain mandatory, the statement said. Since April , all residential communities in Suifenhe had been locked down and each family could send one member outside for purchases every three days. But Suifenhe city and Nangang district in Harbin have been categorized as lowrisk regions for COVID epidemic control, the provincial government said in a statement Wednesday. With the alert in the last mediumrisk region, Linkou county in Mudanjiang, set to be downgraded on Thursday, all  counties and countylevel districts in the province will be categorized as lowrisk areas. As of Tuesday, the province had reported  imported confirmed COVID cases, and  patients had recovered and were discharged from hospital, according to the Heilongjiang Health Commission. All the cases involved Chinese citizens and  of them entered the mainland via the highway port of entry in Suifenhe from Russia. Suifenhe reported its first imported case on March . Nearly , people entered China via Suifenhe from March  to April , when the citys highway port of entry was temporarily closed. The local government took strict pandemiccontrol measures by placing all the returnees in quarantine and giving them coronavirus tests. As of Wednesday, all had completed quarantine, according to Peoples Daily. The highway port of entry in Suifenhe will remain temporarily closed, said a statement on the website of the Chinese consulgeneral in Vladivostok on Wednesday,. The consulgeneral urged all Chinese citizens in Russia to avoid entering the Chinese mainland via Suifenhe. Businesses in the city are expected to take the temperature of all customers and ensure they wear masks. They must sterilize their premises daily and ensure rooms have good air circulation, the citys statement said. Wang Jian, a trader of Russian food since , has a store in Suifenhe, where she mainly deals with wholesale business. I am so excited to get the news that business will resume, she said. My store has been closed since the end of January, and business has been greatly affected, especially since the increase in imported cases was reported. Some of my wholesale customers canceled their orders out of fear that transported goods could carry the virus. Whats more, I couldnt receive customers in my store, she added. I could only sell goods via WeChat and some food delivery platforms. My income dropped by more than  percent. The province reported no new local or imported cases on Wednesday. As of Tuesday, the province had a total of  locally transmitted and  local asymptomatic cases.