Stuck in DC How  one student is coping
2020/5/7 0:48
A man wearing a mask walks past the US Federal Reserve building in Washington DC, the United States, on April , .  Among the hundreds of thousands Chinese students in the US, Zou Yining, a secondyear graduate student at Georgetown University, is staying optimistic and positive during the COVID pandemic. Zou interns at a Washington think tank, the China Environment Forum CEF at the Wilson Center, which focuses on plasticsrelated policy research, where she works on the CEF website. Recently, Zou received a package from the Chinese embassy in Washington, which contained protective KN and surgical masks, medications, sanitizing wipes and a brochure to help Chinese students stay healthy in the US. She also received a gift bag including fresh fruit and snacks from her supervisor, Jennifer Turner, director of the CEF, with a message that she hopes all the interns stay strong amid the coronavirus pandemic. I was a little moved to tears as my heart was warmed by such care and solicitude, by not being isolated and lonely anymore, Zou said. At the beginning of this pandemic, Jennifer asked me about the situation of my family and the city they live in, and she also wanted to make donations to Chinese people. My heart got warm with her kindness and caring, Zou added. Zou is grateful that she has a professional, friendly and active work environment since discrimination toward Chinese in the US has been present since the coronavirus outbreak began. She said she felt depressed when she saw Chinese people and Asian Americans being subjected to racist attacks on Twitter. I think its the time for the two countries coming together instead of blaming each other. The US and China need more mutual cooperation on global challenges, said Zou. Zou learned that some of her colleagues volunteered amid the pandemic. One of my colleagues made masks with her tiny sewing machine and then donated them to community workers, cleaners and couriers. And another colleague, who preferred to cook at home before, decided to order takeout more frequently to support local restaurants, said Zou. I am really encouraged by their experience and also want to support people around me, Zou said. Zou found the hospital closest to her, MedStar Georgetown University Hospital, and registered her donation information. On April , Zou, with another classmate, donated all of her KN masks and three bags of disinfectant wipes to the hospital. This time, I think frontline medical workers who are more vulnerable to COVID should be protected more than us, Zou said. I feel really happy since I have an opportunity to contribute to the common good although my strength is pretty small. Yi Zong in Washington contributed to this story.