Fauci dismisses lab virus theory
2020/5/7 0:00
Anthony Fauci, the United States top infectious disease expert and a member of the White House Coronavirus Task Force, has dismissed theories that the coronavirus was either manufactured or accidentally released from a Chinese laboratory. Faucis comments in an interview with National Geographic on Monday contradict recent claims made by US President Donald Trump and Secretary of State Mike Pompeo. Fauci said that available research indicates the virus evolved naturally. If you look at the evolution of the virus in bats, and whats out there now is very, very strongly leaning toward this virus could not have been artificially or deliberately manipulatedthe way the mutations have naturally evolved, Fauci said. A number of very qualified evolutionary biologists have said that everything about the stepwise evolution over time strongly indicates that it evolved in nature and then jumped the species. He said that means it was in the wild to begin with. Thats why I dont get what theyre talking about and why I dont spend a lot of time going in on this circular argument. US intelligence agencies said last week that there was widespread scientific consensus the virus wasnt manmade or genetically modified. Fauci said scientists analyzing the virus genetic code have consistently said there is strong evidence the coronavirus jumped to humans from animals in the wild, although it remains unclear how. The World Health Organization and Fauci have said that all available evidence pointed to the virus being of animal origin, most likely bats. In the past  years, scientists have said that at least three other outbreaks have been traced back to bats, including Ebola, Middle East respiratory syndrome, and the Nipah virus. Fauci also emphasized in the interview the importance of keeping social distancing measures and adequate testing procedures in place. He said there might be a resurgence of the virus as lockdown measures are lifted. I dont think theres a chance that this virus is just going to disappear, he said. US VicePresident Mike Pence confirmed Tuesday that the White House will wind down the coronavirus task force at the end of May as a forecasting model, often cited by Trump administration, doubled its death toll projection over the relaxation of social distancing guidelines. Total deaths in the US could approach , by August as states reopen their economies, according to the University of Washingtons Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation, one of several models that researchers have developed to chart the potential path of the disease. Growing contacts among people will promote transmission of the coronavirus, the institute said, adding that factors such as warming summer temperatures wont offset the rising mobility, thereby fueling a significant increase in projected deaths. It was the second projection of an increase in deaths in the US in two days. The New York Times on Monday cited an unpublished report by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, predicting that the daily US death toll would double between now and June . The Trump administration rebuked the report, saying the presidents decision to reopen the country was based on scientific evidence. More than  states have reopened or eased restrictions, and more are expected to do so soon. In Arizona, which was visited on Tuesday by US President Trump, stores may reopen by the end of the week, said Governor Doug Ducey, a Republican. Pence, who was in charge of the task force, confirmed a New York Times report earlier Tuesday about its closing, telling reporters that his goal was to start handing responsibility back to various government agencies by May , Memorial Day. I think were starting to look at the Memorial Day window, early June window as a time when we could begin to transition back to having our agencies begin to manage  our national response in a more traditional manner, Pence said. Pence said the task force closing was a reflection of the tremendous progress weve made as a country. Pences briefing with reporters came minutes before Trump touched down in Arizona, where he toured a Honeywell International aerospace facility in Phoenix that makes protective masks. In Arizona, Trump said, We cant keep our country closed. We have to open our country. ... Will some people be badly affected? Yes. The president said he would continue to hear from experts such as Anthony Fauci and Deborah Birx, the White House coronavirus response coordinator, as well as other doctors. They will be heard from, and so will other doctors, and so will other experts in the field, Trump said. We will have something in a different form. The Times report said White House officials informed members of the task force that they plan to finish the operation in coming weeks. But Fauci told CBS News on Tuesday morning that he hadnt been told the task force would be shutting down. Thats not true, Ive been in every task force meeting, and thats not what they are doing, he said. As he was departing the White House for Arizona, Trump said he was allowing Fauci to testify before the Republicanled Senate but not the Democratled House, calling the lower chamber a setup. The House is a bunch of Trump haters, Trump said. aihepingchinadailyusa.com ? ? ?