Asia eases rules Africa stays alert
2020/5/7 0:00
SEOULSome Asian countries are gradually easing social distancing rules to restore a semblance of normal life to their people after seeing a slowdown in new coronavirus cases, while African and Latin American countries are still battling the virus. Starting on Wednesday, South Korea officially shifted to an everyday life quarantine following more than two months of intensive social distancing in line with a consistent and continuous flattening of the countrys infection curve. This means that as long as the people follow the governments new hygiene guidelines, they can take part in outdoor activities and massgathering events, Yonhap News Agency said. In Indonesia, President Joko Widodo signed a government regulation in lieu of law on Monday to postpone the Sept  regional elections until at least December due to the coronavirus pandemic. The country had recorded a total of , COVID cases and  fatalities as of Tuesday. Meanwhile, Lebanon is set to extend its lockdown by two weeks until May  with the prime minister warning on Tuesday that a failure to comply with a gradual easing of restrictions risked a second wave of infections. The government started to ease some restrictions this week, allowing restaurants to open but at only  percent of their capacity. Prime Minister Hassan Diab said the general assessment was excellent. But he also said that citizens did not comply with the restrictions and measures that are being gradually reduced. Lebanon has recorded  cases and  deaths. In Yemen, authorities in Houthiheld north Yemen confirmed their first COVID case on Tuesday, while the government in the south of the wartorn nation reported nine new infections. Yemen has reported  cases, including three deaths, in territory held by the internationally recognized government, and one case, a death, in areas under the Iranaligned Houthis. The World Health Organization has said it fears COVID could rip through Yemen as the population has some of the lowest levels of immunity to disease compared with other countries. In Africa, over , cases have been reported in  countries across the continent. South Africa has the highest number of infections, at , as of Tuesday. In Kenya, the ministry of health on Tuesday confirmed  new cases, taking total infections to . Mutai Kagwe, cabinet secretary for health, said the figures are an indication that things are not getting better and the country will continue to see increasing numbers unless we change. Record daily deaths Elsewhere in the world, Brazil hit a record for daily coronavirus deaths on Tuesday, indicating that the nation is still in the thick of its battle against the virus, even as some areas of the country are beginning to open up. The nation has now tallied , confirmed cases and , deaths, making it by far the hardesthit country in Latin America. Xinhua  Agencies SatereMawe indigenous men wearing face masks navigate the Ariau River in Amazonas state, Brazil, on Tuesday. RICARDO OLIVEIRAAGENCE FRANCEPRESSE ? ?