Charity organization gives young Africans a vision for the future
2020/5/6 18:14
People visit the opening event of DisneyPixar Toy Story Land, the seventh themed land in Shanghai Disneyland in Shanghai, China April , .  Disney plans to reopen its Shanghai theme park Monday under a series of health and safety procedures as it prepares to enter the first phase of recovery from the coronavirus pandemic, its executives announced Tuesday. We are seeing encouraging signs of a gradual return to some semblance of normalcy in China, and in light of the lifting of certain restrictions in recent weeks, and the successful reopening of our parks adjacent retail and food and beverage areas, Disneytown, we and our government partners Shanghai Shendi Group, plan to open Shanghai Disneyland on May , said the companys newly appointed CEO Bob Chapek during its fiscal secondquarter earnings call. Chapek said Disney plans to implement a phased control as it reopens its Shanghai facility, with attendance limits, an advanced reservation and entry system, and social distancing to control density of the crowds. It will follow strict governmentrequired health and prevention procedures, which included the use of masks for both employees and visitors, temperature screening, and contact tracing and early detection systems. The only people in the park who will not wear masks will be the characters, but they will be at a distance from crowds, Chapek added. The Shanghai and Hong Kong Disneylands, both closed in January, became the first among Disneys worldwide theme parks to suspend operations after the coronavirus struck China. The closure Tokyo Disneylands soon followed in February. In midMarch, Disneyland Paris and Disneys theme parks in the US were shuttered indefinitely. The Shanghai facility usually sees around , visitors per day, Chapek said, but the government has required that it receive no more than  percent of its regular capacity, or around , visitors. It will reopen with a visitor capacity well below that, before ramping up to reach the ,daily standard. Its unclear at this point when the rest of Disneys theme parks around the world will resume operations. As we look ahead, while we announced plans to reopen Shanghai Disney Resort, there is limited visibility into the timing of reopening and the conditions under which we can reopen the rest of our parks and resorts, cruise ships, and Disney stores, said Disney Chief Financial Officer Christine McCarthy during the call. Prior to the disruption caused by the COVID pandemic, all of Disneys parks, with the exception of Hong Kong Disneyland, which was suffering from a drop in visitors from the Chinese mainland and other parts of Asia, were performing exceptionally better than the prior year, said McCarthy. As a result of the unprecedented disruptions to our businesses, Q operating income at parks experiences and products was significantly lower compared to Q last year. We estimated the disruption to our parks experiences and product businesses adversely impacted our Q income by approximately  billion, she said. In total, Disney estimated that the COVID impact on its current quarterly income from continuing operations before income taxes across all of its businesses was as much as . billion. Its diluted earnings per share EPS from continuing operations for the quarter decreased  percent to . from . in the prioryear quarter. Excluding certain items affecting comparability, diluted EPS for the quarter decreased  percent to . from . in the prioryear quarter. Executives said the company began a furlough for around , employees on April . Unlike layoffs, the process allows affected employees to remain as Disney workers and continue to receive full health benefits paid for by the company. Senior executives compensation companywide was also reduced considerably, Chapek said. It will remain in place until the company sees a substantive economic recovery. Despite declines in its parks and cruiseship businesses, Disney is seeing some positive developments in its media network, directtoconsumer, and broadcasting businesses. Disneys Hulu, for example, had . million subscribers by March , up  percent from a year ago. Chapek said the company has no projection on when it will resume largescale film operations, but it will do so when it could absolutely guarantee the safety of its filmmakers and employees. Disney had previously announced that Mulan, which features ChineseAmerican star Liu Yifei, will hit theaters on July . I have absolute confidence in our ability to get through this challenging period and recover successfully, said Bob Iger, Disneys executive chairman, who stepped down as Disney CEO in February.