Cities look at longer weekends to boost consumption and tourism
2020/5/6 14:35
Shanghai Sheshan National Tourist Resort has launched a series of discounted ticket options as part of its efforts to attract visitors in the wake of the novel coronavirus outbreak, and shore up the megacitys tourism industry as the recovery begins. To help its operations and boost the tourism economy of the city, Shanghai Sheshan National Tourist Resort is offering discounts of up to  percent on Ctrip, a popular travel website, under the guidance of the Shanghai Development and Reform Commission as of the beginning of April. The ticket packages, expiring on June , cover seven scenic attractions at the resort, which are Chenshan Botanical Garden, Shanghai Happy Valley amusement park, Moon Lake Sculpture Park, Shanghai Shimao Elfthemed Park, Tianmashan Park, Xiaokunshan Park and Guangfulin Cultural Relics Park. The ticket package for an adult is priced at  yuan , which is a saving of more than  percent compared with the standard price of  yuan, according to the resort. The price of the ticket package for children is  yuan per person, providing the childs height is between .. meters. According to Shanghai Sheshan National Tourist Resort, medical workers can visit the attractions for free, in honor of their efforts made during the epidemic outbreak. Buyers of the package are advised to activate their tickets before June , and can use a QR code as their ticket. Conforming to Shanghais requirements for epidemic prevention and control, Sheshan has kept the indoor venues of the seven attractions closed for the safety of visitors and to help prevent the spread of infection. Being fully armed with a range of epidemic prevention and control measures, the administrative committee of the Sheshan resort urges all the visitors to wear a face mask while touring. Located  kilometers from downtown in Songjiang district in the western suburbs of Shanghai, the resort is the citys only natural forest resort. The resort has built four Alevel scenic attractions, three star hotels and a group of soughtafter tourism facilities such as Chenshan Botanical Garden and Guangfulin Cultural Relics Park. Sheshan aims to develop itself into a first choice for tourists and become an international resort destination in the future, according to the resort. Guangfulin Cultural Relics Park imitates the citys ancient way of life and offers ample evidence of inhabitants who lived in the area , years ago. CHINA DAILY Chenshan Botanical Garden is a mustsee at Shanghai Sheshan National Tourist Resort and is home to nearly , cherry trees of more than  varieties from different countries. CHINA DAILY Shanghai Shimao Elfthemed Park is a comprehensive amusement park invested in by Shimao Group, bringing fresh entertainment experiences for visitors. CHINA DAILY ?