Xinjiang sees over m tourists on Labor Day holiday
2020/5/6 13:59
Here are some of the most striking images taken from around the world over the past week. A photo taken on April ,  shows the NotreDame Cathedral under restoration in Paris. The renovation resumed on Monday after suspension since March  due to the COVID epidemic, the public agency overseeing the project announced.  Surfers walk at Bondi Beach in Sydney, Australia on April , . Hundreds of Aussies flocked to the water on Tuesday as the iconic Bondi Beach reopened for surfers and swimmers after closure due to COVID.  A farmer separates wheat from chaff during COVID lockdown in Jammu, winter capital of Indiancontrolled Kashmir, on April , .  The London Eye is illuminated in blue to mark the weekly Clap for Our Carers in London on April , .  A bride and her groom wear face masks at their wedding ceremony in Kathmandu, Nepal on May , .  A photo taken on May ,  shows a lion statue with a mask in front of the Art Institute of Chicago. The modified stayathome order in Illinois, effective May , made mandatory face covering in a public place where people cannot maintain a sixfoot social distance for anyone over the age of two.  An airport staff member loads Chinese medical supplies onto a truck in Ljubljana, Slovenia on May , . A cargo aircraft carrying about  tons of medical supplies donated by the Chinese government to Slovenia landed at the Ljubljana Joze Pucnik Airport on Friday evening.  Residents applaud on their balconies to support healthcare workers amid the coronavirus COVID outbreak in SaintMande near Paris on May , .  A formation of the Thunderbirds and Blue Angels fly over the National Mall in Washington DC on May , . The US Navys Blue Angels and US Air Forces Thunderbirds honored frontline COVID responders and essential workers with formation flights on Saturday.  Police officers wearing face masks block a road in Istanbul, Turkey on May , . Turkish police on Friday detained at least  people who intended to stage several unauthorized marches to central Istanbul to mark International Workers Day, local media reported. 