Xinjiang sees over m tourists on Labor Day holiday
2020/5/6 13:23
Employees wear masks at in Beijings Zhongguancun software park. Photo by Zou HongChina Daily A list of the first batch of  national digital service export bases was released recently, with digital service exports pressing the fastforward button, Peoples Daily Overseas Edition reported. The list was coreleased by the Ministry of Commerce, Cyberspace Administration of China and Ministry of Industry and Information Technology, aiming to grasp opportunities in digital economic development, speed up digital service exports, and build these bases into key carriers for digital trade as well as a digital service export cluster. The first batch of digital service export bases are Zhongguancun Software Park, Tianjin EconomicTechnological Development Area, Dalian HighTech Industrial Zone, Shanghai Pudong Software Park, China Nanjing Software Valley, Hangzhou HighTech Zone Binjiang IoT Industrial Park, Hefei HighTech Industry Development Zone, Xiamen Software Park, Qilu Software Park, Guangzhou Tianhe Central Business District, Hainan EcoSoftware Park and Chengdu Tianfu Software Park. Building digital service export bases will promote Chinas digital trade development and digital technology application, foster new business models of foreign trade, create new advantages for international competition, and improve the highquality development of service trade, said Gao Feng, spokesperson of the Ministry of Commerce. Presently, the widely used digital technology plays an important role in the global fight against the coronavirus, while new models such as G, telecommuting, and online education and contract signing have witnessed burgeoning development. The development of the digital economy covers the openingup of digital services, digital technology application and much more, Pan Helin, executive director of the Digital Economy Academy of the Zhongnan University of Economics and Law in Hubei, told the newspaper. The most significant contribution of establishing national digital service export bases is to build a digital industrial highland, Pan said, adding the move will further stimulate the development potential of the bases. In the future it will bring more outside support and accumulative effects, and also attract more talent. Unlike traditional hightech zones and digital industrial parks, building these bases should focus on digital service exports. Meanwhile, these bases are built not only to serve the domestic market, but also for the whole world. So, from the beginning, we should set high standards, and strive to reach the level to draw up rules and standards for the sector, Pan said.