Transfer pricing to be a breeze for MNCs
2021/8/6 16:20
A free lecture on Peking Opera is held for children and their shared grandmothers at the Shipingcun community in Chongqings Jiulongpo district, July , . They performed the opera and colored masks together. Photo by Deng Ruichinadaily.com.cn A team of older women in Chongqing, who are serving as shared grandmothers to help working parents pick up their children from school, help them with their homework and accompany them in entertainment activities, recently won praise online. The team of women from the Shipingcun community in Chongqings Jiulongpo district has nine female retirees between  and , mostly emptynesters. They volunteer to take care of  pupils from the communitys Yangshilu Primary School. In the past, the school could offer afterclass services to students only until  pm Tuesday to Friday. To solve time clashes with guardians on Mondays  a day that the students are dismissed at  pm, which is too early for some adults to collect them  the Chongqing Amber Social Work Service Center in April created first shared grandmother program. The center is a public service organization established in the district in November. A free lecture on Peking Opera is held for children and their shared grandmothers at the Shipingcun community in Chongqings Jiulongpo district, July , . They performed the opera and colored masks together. Photo by Deng RuiFor chinadaily.com.cn The sharing program recruits healthy retired females to accompany children. During traditional Chinese holidays, we organize the families to visit the older women as well, as a way to thank them for their efforts, said yearold Mao Yu, a volunteer at the center. The service is great and worth promoting in other places in the country, a netizen said on Sina Weibo. A free lecture on Peking Opera is held for children and their shared grandmothers at the Shipingcun community in Chongqings Jiulongpo district, July , . They performed the opera and colored masks together. Photo by Deng RuiFor chinadaily.com.cn Deng Lihong, , is a publicspirited member of the team who signed up for the program as soon as she saw the recruitment advertisement. This is the exact thing that Ive wanted to do since retirement and theres nothing to brag about. I feel young with the kids and my retired life is meaningful, she beamed. A free lecture on Peking Opera is held for children and their shared grandmothers at the Shipingcun community in Chongqings Jiulongpo district, July , . They performed the opera and colored masks together. Photo by Deng RuiFor chinadaily.com.cn Cui Jingqin, , who has handed over her yearold son, Wu Ruili, to the elderly women since the program began, is a selfemployed laborer. She said her parentsinlaw are in poor health and need to be taken care of, and she and her husband dont have enough time or education to help with their sons studies. The learning atmosphere here is good. My son has made progress this semester, especially in math, she said. A free lecture on Peking Opera is held for children and their shared grandmothers at the Shipingcun community in Chongqings Jiulongpo district, July , . They performed the opera and colored masks together. Photo by Deng RuiFor chinadaily.com.cn Huang Zejun, a yearold former government staff member, retired in  and lives alone. If the kids cant feel a grandmothers love, wed like to provide love and care for them, Huang said. Actually we warm each others hearts by mutual company. The team of volunteers continues to expand, said Cao Yidan, chairman of the center. As Yangshilu Primary School is planning to fully realize its afterclass services on all workdays next semester, the center is seeking further cooperation with the school, families and community to achieve the goal.