Latest on the novel coronavirus outbreak
2020/5/6 10:50
Seniors return to classes at a high school in Wuhan of Hubei province, the area hit hardest by COVID in China, on May , . More than , students in the city resume school learning on the day. Photo by Ke HaoFor China Daily High school seniors in Wuhan, Hubei province  the hardest hit area in China by the COVID pandemic  returned to school on Wednesday morning. Wuhan on Wednesday reopened its first batch of  high schools  days after the city announced itself clear of COVID patients, with a total number of , senior students returning. All students need to wear masks to enter campuses and receive a temperature check upon entry. They then need to wash their hands and receive one more temperature check before entering classrooms. Schools will conduct lectures with no more than  students in each classroom to make sure each student is adequately distanced. Some boarding students returned to their dormitories on Tuesday. Hongshan High School, for example, measured students body temperatures twice and conducted three sterilization procedures before allowing them to return to their rooms. Some schools also arranged different times for teachers and students to enter or leave to avoid crowding. On Monday, nine schools in Hongshan District also conducted emergency drills in case any fever patient is discovered. Students pass through a temperature check when entering school. Photo by Ke HaoFor China Daily A student sanitizes her hands when entering school.??Photo by Ke HaoFor China Daily Seniors return to classes at a high school in Wuhan of Hubei province, the area hit hardest by COVID in China, on May , . Photo by Ke HaoFor China Daily Seniors return to classes at a high school in Wuhan of Hubei province, the area hit hardest by COVID in China, on May , . Photo by Ke HaoFor China Daily A student uses hand sanitizer.??Photo by Ke HaoFor China Daily Seniors return to classes at a high school in Wuhan of Hubei province, the area hit hardest by COVID in China, on May , .? Photo by Ke HaoFor China Daily Seniors return to classes at a high school in Wuhan of Hubei province, the area hit hardest by COVID in China, on May , . Photo by Ke HaoFor China Daily Seniors return to high school in Wuhan on the morning of May , . Photo by Xue ZiFor China Daily Students have their temperature checked when entering school. Photo by Xue ZiFor China Daily Seniors enter school while keeping their distance from each other. Photo by Xue ZiFor China Daily Students have their temperature checked in a classroom. Photo by Xue ZiFor China Daily Seniors listen to their teacher during a class. Photo by Xue ZiFor China Daily Seniors listen to their teacher during a class. Photo by Xue ZiFor China Daily Seniors listen to their teacher during a class. Photo by Xue ZiFor China Daily Students take a break. Photo by Xue ZiFor China Daily Packed meals are distributed to students?in a classroom of?a high school in Wuhan, Hubei province, on May , . Photo by Xuezifor chinadaily.com.cn Students take meals in a classroom of?a high school in Wuhan, Hubei province, on May , . Photo by Xuezifor chinadaily.com.cn ?