Is it time to embrace a plantbased diet?
2020/5/6 9:27
Editors note Fastfood chains including KFC and Starbucks have rolled out plantbased meat products in China in an effort to promote healthy eating and protect the environment. KFC recently launched sampling trials for its first plantbased chicken nuggets in its outlets in Shanghai, Shenzhen and Guangzhou at a special price of . yuan  cents for five pieces. Readers share their opinions. linda China I just dont get it. If you want something that tastes likes meat youd better eat meat. Plantbased meat is highly processed. It is not as healthy as vegetables. It contains unhealthy proportions of fat, salt and artificial additives. An exercise routine, along with a wellbalanced diet, is the best way to stay healthy. A customer tries KFCs plantbased chicken nuggets at a KFC store in Shanghai. Photo provided to China Daily Nigel China We should be eating less meat because of climate change and global warming. Im not a vegan, but animal food such as pork and beef contributes to environmental changes that we see today. Starbucks joined plantbased innovators Beyond Meat, Inc and Oatly to launch new products in its stores in China on Tuesday. Photo provided to chinadaily.com.cn terryfoy US Our human body was not designed for us only to eat vegetables. We are designed to eat meat  look at our carnivore teeth! The protein that our body must have to survive comes from the meat we eat. Our bodies function properly with the correct balance of meat and vegetables. Too much meat and we get fat, too little meat and we get puny and weak. If you want to be healthy you must eat a balanced diet of both meat and vegetables. A plantbased sausage is served in a bun.  taikor Malaysia Start with a huge cutback on meat. Regarding pigs, do you know they could outsmart you on Playstation games? Dont be surprised. Theyre much smarter than dogs. So they do better at video games than some primates. Pigs are extremely clever animals. They form complex social networks and have excellent memories. Theyre gentle, defenseless creatures. Start doing it now. Its time we make a change. Photo provided to China Daily cdappRflBcZ China Its a good idea to eat less meat. Red meat increases the risk of cancer and heart attacks. Vegetables and fruits are equally delicious. A waiter wearing a face mask serves customers at a restaurant in Guangzhou, Guangdong province, on Feb . Photo by Zhou Weifor China Daily sockmonkey US I could never be a vegetarian. I eat very little meat only poultry and fish, plus sometimes hot dogs and bacon, but I love the meat I do eat! If one has to cut back on meat, it seems red meat is the first thing that should be minimized since its not as good for you as other types. Beef and vegetables surround a spicy hotpot at a Sichuanstyle hotpot restaurant in Beijing. Photo by Liu ZheChina Daily ?