Hairdresser steps up to make the most out of life
2020/5/6 8:29
The newly founded Hong Kong Coalition will help create job opportunities for the citys young people, as well as boosting a depressed economy, coalition convener Leung Chunying said on Tuesday. Leung, who is also a vicechairman of the National Committee of the Chinese Peoples Political Consultative Conference and a former Hong Kong chief executive, said each of the coalitions members will find ways to use their resources and contacts to help young people, especially graduates, find jobs in tough economic circumstances. Whether the jobseekers are seeking fulltime or parttime positions, or even volunteer work, the coalitions goal is to leave them with a resume that isnt blank when the economy recovers, Leung said. After a year of turmoil that included violent protests and the COVID pandemic, Hong Kong on Monday announced its steepest quarterly GDP plunge on record, a drop of . percent, while retail sales sank  percent in March. Now is the right time to form the alliance to help the city recover, Leung said. It is not only a slogan, but a common goal for everyone in the coalition, with concrete efforts invested in reviving the economy and saving jobs. Noting that the founding of the alliance has gained support from Hong Kong Chief Executive Carrie Lam Cheng Yuetngor, Leung said the coalition will also make use of its resources to assist the government in fighting against the COVID pandemic. The first step is to distribute  million face masks to children and  million to adults over the coming weekend, Leung said. The coalition has , members from various sectors  business, politics, academia, and youth organizations. Members of the organization also include grassroots representatives who are participating in the fight against the virus, plus professionals in sanitation as well as stakeholders in logistics and the supply chain, Leung said. All will strive to improve peoples livelihoods during these difficult times, he said. Speaking to China Daily after the ceremony, Stanley Ng Chaupei, a Hong Kong deputy to the National Peoples Congress and president of the Hong Kong Federation of Trade Unions, said the alliance is very concerned about the unemployment issue in a declining economy. Noting that the coalition has many business leaders, Ng said he believes they are committed to creating job opportunities, especially for young people who have just graduated or lost their jobs. Connie Wong Waiching, a businesswoman and member of the CPPCC National Committee, said she hopes to use the platform to contribute to Hong Kong so that the next generation can live prosperous and contented lives. heshusichinadailyhk.com Hong Kong Coalitions coconveners Tung Cheehwa left and Leung Chunying attend a press conference on Tuesday. Leung said that each coalition member will pool their resources to help young people, especially graduates, find employment at this difficult time.?Parker Zheng  China Daily ?