Chinese UFC champ back in Beijing
2020/5/5 15:06
Chinese UFC champion Zhang Weili center is greeted with flowers in a hotel in Tianjin after completing her day quarantine. She left for Beijing on Tuesday to resume training. Photo by Yang Chengchinadaily.com.cn Chinas first UFC champion, Zhang Weili, completed her day quarantine at a hotel in Tianjin and left for Beijing on Tuesday to resume training. The yearold was crowned Chinas first UFC champion in August. She then defeated Joanna Jedrzejczyk in Las Vegas to retain her strawweight belt on March . After being stranded in the United States for more than  days, she arrived in Tianjin on April . Earlier, when Zhang was abroad, she was insulted on social media over the COVID pandemic. But she responded without flinching. I insisted on advocating joint efforts in the fight against COVID, she said. Unity for a shared future is the strongest immunity. The US announced on Jan  that it would bar entry by most foreign nationals who had recently visited China. Consequently, Zhang went to Thailand on Feb  and then flew to Abu Dhabi before arriving in the US for the contest. As Zhangs preparations for the bout were disrupted, Jedrzejczyk, a former fivetime defending champion in the pound division, had stirred controversy by posting a mock promotional poster on social media that depicted the Polish fighter standing behind Zhang and wearing a gas mask. The image was accompanied by laughing emojis. Zhangs coolheaded advocacy of joint efforts against the coronavirus was applauded by international fans on social media. During her quarantine in Tianjin, she trained in her single room using equipment provided by the sports bureau of Hexi district. And she spent time reading books on philosophy and studying English. She said she appreciates British philosopher Bertrand Russell and was reading a book of his. In essence, the Chinese martial arts are a kind of philosophy, she said. Zhang was born in  to a working family, in Handan, Hebei province. She has pursued martial arts since she was a child, and joined a martial arts school. Because of an injury, she abandoned training for a time at the age of  and worked as a cashier and kindergarten teacher in Beijing. In , she returned to her beloved sports career and became a professional athlete.