HK records  imported virus case, tally at ,
2020/5/5 10:42
Pedestrians, wearing face masks as a precautionary measure against the COVID coronavirus, walk past market stalls in Hong Kong on May , . ISAAC LAWRENCE  AFP HONG KONG  Hong Kong reported one imported COVID case on Monday, ending a twoday run of no new cases and bringing the citys tally to ,. The latest patient is a yearold woman who returned from the United States on Monday morning. She tested positive for the coronavirus at the temporary testing center at AsiaWorldExpo upon arrival. The woman had developed symptoms in the US in midApril but did not show any signs of the disease when she returned, according to the Centre of Health Protection. Hong Kong recorded its last locally infected case  days ago. Ho Pakleung, head of the Centre for Infection at the University of Hong Kong, said this is an encouraging result of monthslong antiepidemic efforts. Speaking on a radio program on Monday, the top microbiologist also called for an end to the citywide ban on public gatherings of more than four people at a time if no local cases are reported for  consecutive days  a development that would signal a breakdown of the local transmission chain. Hong Kong has recorded no new cases in seven of the past nine days. Most social distancing measures in the city are due to expire on Thursday, with the government discussing a relaxation of some of the measures, according to local media reports. David Hui Shucheong, a respiratory medicine expert at the Chinese University of Hong Kong, said leisure venues such as cinemas, beauty salons and gyms can be gradually reopened with precautions in place, but bars and karaoke lounges, which are considered higherrisk venues, should be the last businesses to resume operations. A government limit on the number of diners at a table could be raised from the current cap of four people to eight, said Hui, who has advised on the administrations antiepidemic efforts. He added that restaurants should still keep tables . meters apart or separated by shields. The Hospital Authority said on Monday another  COVID patients had been discharged from hospitals, taking the total of recovered patients to .