Reins eased on Italians but others struggle
2020/5/5 8:59
? People ride their bikes and jog at Parco Talenti park, as Italy begins a staged end to a nationwide lockdown due to the spread of the coronavirus disease COVID, in Rome, Italy, May , .  While worsthit European nation moves again, Russia, Japan weighed down Italians were free to stroll and visit relatives for the first time in nine weeks on Monday as the country hardest hit by Europes coronavirus outbreak eases the worlds longest nationwide lockdown. Four million workers were expected to return to their construction sites and factories as the economically shattered country tries to get moving again. Restaurants reopened for takeaway service. But bars and even ice cream parlors remained shut. The use of public transport was discouraged and everyone will have to wear masks in indoor public spaces. On the eve of the easing of the lockdown, the number of new deaths from COVID dropped to  on Sunday, Italys lowest daily figure since the start of the lockdown on March , according to the health authorities. The countrys death toll stood at , on Sunday. The lockdown will be eased in further stages at twoweek increments, on May  and June , provided the data related to the outbreak continue to improve. In Russia, the number of cases rose by over , for the second straight day, the countrys health authorities said on Monday. In the  hours to noon on Monday, the rise was ,, shy of the record of , the previous day. This brought Russias nationwide tally to , and the death toll to ,. Despite the increases, the government has indicated it could gradually lift confinement measures from May , depending on the region, The Moscow Times reported. The Chinese embassy in Moscow reposted an announcement from Air China on Monday in which it said that from May  all passengers on its flights from Moscow to Beijing must provide negative nucleic acid testing results within  hours of boarding. The tests should be made at one of the six institutions in Moscow and St. Petersburg that were listed on the embassys website. In France, the pandemic has claimed , lives as of Sunday. Travelers who arrive from a country in Europes Schengen openborder area or Britain will be exempt from a compulsory twoweek quarantine, the Elysee Palace said on Sunday. Despite the eased conditions for travelers from within the Schengen Area and Britain, the tough quarantine rules for those coming from other places will stay in place. France is preparing to gradually lift lockdown measures from May . In Asia, Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe on Monday decided to extend the countrys national state of emergency to May . Abe will consider lifting the state of emergency without waiting for its May  expiration if expert advisers decide that is possible based on detailed analysis of regional infection trends, he said at a meeting of the governments coronavirus task force. Even though Japan has not seen a huge outbreak compared with some global hot spots, the coronavirus has infected , people and killed  in the country, according to public broadcaster NHK. Traditional Thai dancers wearing protective face shields perform at the Erawan Shrine in Bangkok on Monday. The shrine was reopened after the Thai government relaxed measures to combat the spread of the coronavirus.?MLADEN ANTONOVAGENCE FRANCEPRESSE Fabrication denounced Meanwhile, amid controversy, Japanese Nobel laureate Tasuku Honjo denounced the posting online of fabricated reports that claimed he had said the new coronavirus was manmade. Honjo said the broadcasting of unsubstantiated claims regarding the origins of the disease is dangerously distracting, especially at a time when all people need to work together to fight the common enemy of coronavirus. In Latin America, , new cases of the virus were recorded in Brazil, with  deaths, over the latest reported hour period, the health ministry said on Sunday. That brought the total number of confirmed cases in the country to over ,. Brazils death toll stood at , on Sunday. Chen Yingqun in Beijing, Xinhua and agencies contributed to this story.