Foreign firms optimistic about rebound
2020/5/5 8:30
Employees work on the production line of a CocaCola venture in Shanghai. YANG YANJUNCHINA NEWS SERVICE Companies cite government measures as crucial for business turnaround As China flattens the novel coronavirus curve and steadily returns to economic normalcy, foreign enterprises are voicing optimism about the restoration of business and embarking on operational excellence in the worlds secondlargest economy. Though the pandemic has strangled growth worldwide, multinational corporations have largely remained committed to China, citing the swift restoration of order and the vast market potential, along with supportive government measures designed to help them weather the storm. In a study published by two different chambers of commerce of United States businesses last month, more than  percent of US companies surveyed said they have no plans to relocate production and supply chain operations or to source from outside of China due to the outbreak, which is crippling global economic activity. Those companies, most of which have had a presence in China for more than a decade, including nationwide operations, managed to fend off turbulence due to the use of the In China for China strategy for domestic demand, officials said. In contrast to some global narratives, our Chinabased data suggests that the majority of our members will not be packing up and leaving China anytime soon, said Alan Beebe, president of the American Chamber of Commerce in China. Jan Nicholas, consulting partner at consultancy PwC China, said The survey results are a reflection of the resourcefulness and flexibility of the American business community in China in recovering from recent challenges. The views of American executives navigating production recovery in China can give hope and guidance to territories that have yet to begin their transition back to growth. Qian Jin, president of Hilton for China and Mongolia, said the hospitality giant has stepped up the gradual reopening of its hotels as the company wakes from its coronavirusrelated closure during the height of the outbreak. Weve seen a particular rebound in niche product segments like shorthaul trips around major cities, notably at weekends and minor vacations, he said. Qian believes Chinas tourism market is on a benign and sustainable track, as driving forces such as the expanding middle class, consumption upgrades and Chinas prominent role on the global stage remain intact from the virus. Therefore, we will stay deeply committed to China and continue to explore business development here, he said. Industrial conglomerate Honeywell has just registered a wholly owned subsidiary in Wuhan, Hubei province, as the companys headquarters for massmid segment business in China. This demonstrates Honeywells continuous commitment to China, the company said in a statement to China Daily. It described Wuhan as a key city in central China, strategically located, and an important industrial base, as well as a technology and research hub in the country. It continued Honeywell would like to enhance cooperation with Wuhan, promote innovative technologies, provide better coverage in Central and western China, and further fulfill the vast market needs of Chinas massmid segment. This initiative will further solidify the execution of Honeywells East for East strategy in China. Lilly China, the local affiliate of global pharmaceutical company Eli Lilly, is offering an online map of pharmacies so diabetics can easily locate the medicines they need. To ensure patients receive proper treatment, Lilly worked with thirdparty internet hospital platforms to provide onestop services so patients can be treated at home without the risk of going outside. Workers at the construction site of the second phase of Teslas Shanghai plant last month. QIU DAOCENFOR CHINA DAILY Packaging line operations at Lillys manufacturing site in Suzhou, Jiangsu province, resumed on Feb , the first day possible in light of government rules related to the resumption of business after an extended Chinese New Year. The site is operating at full capacity to ensure that patients who use Lillys medicines can access reliable supplies. To facilitate that, the company has ensured that frontline factory workers have sufficient supplies of face masks. Patients are always at the heart of what we do, Julio GayGer, the companys China president and general manager, said. We would like to work with the healthcare community and contribute our efforts in fighting the outbreak together. Such optimism and commitment arent just restricted to US companies. Mauro De Felip, general manager of Ferrero China, the Italian confectionary company, believes the impact of the outbreak will be short term. As we are moving from the containment phase to the recovery phase domestically, businesses are gradually returning to normal, he said. The favorable policies formulated by the government will also help ease the burden and boost the smooth recovery pace of companies operations. German chemicals giant Covestro, which generates onefifth of its revenue in China, has just expanded its regional headquarters in Pudong New Area, Shanghai, as the company remains upbeat about growth in China. We regard China as our home market. Our longterm strategy remains intact and it enables us to be resilient in responding to the epidemic, Holly Lei, the companys China president, said. Companies like skin care giant LOreal have witnessed a robust rebound after a shortterm tumble. Not only has the French cosmetics giant resumed nearly all its offline retail presence nationwide, its China market sales even bucked the overall gloomy trend, posting yearonyear growth of . percent. Even the epidemic cannot hinder peoples pursuit of a beautiful life, said Fabrice Megarbane, president and CEO of LOreal China. On the contrary, people have taken the opportunity to reflect on relationships between individuals, society and the environment, and have formed more positive, rational and responsible consumption attitudes. This definitely provides an even broader space for our business growth. Despite the current challenges, Eddie Chen, China managing director of Eurazeo, a global investment company, believes that the market will eventually adjust itself based on the new normal. In fact, we have entered a new era for the SinoEuropean relationship, which has been underestimated historically. Our strategy wont be changed by the shortterm impact. We retain our positive views on China for the long run, he said. For example, Chen cited booming business opportunities in information technology and healthcare, as well as the longterm digitalization and industrialization of all businesses. These latest trends will create new values for better managing portfolio companies in China, he said. Most executives point to the In China for China strategy as a winning recipe to sustain growth, and the coronavirus outbreak actually provides a window of opportunity for testing new practices and improving operational excellence. For example, Covestros Lei said she is excited about the growing opportunities in smart infrastructure, including smart city, smart logistics and various internet of things applications, where the companys cuttingedge materials and local partnerships stand to play a role. In China, for example, we are working with Southeast University of China in Nanjing, Jiangsu on the optimization of radio frequency data transmittance for G applications as our polycarbonates are mechanically robust, lightweight, transparent to radio frequencies and suitable for injection molding, she said. Employees of FESTO China keep a distance at lunch tables after the company resumed operations in Shanghai. GAO ERQIANGCHINA DAILY Riding the livestreaming wave, a Hilton facility in Jinan, Shandong province, has kicked off a weekly online broadcasting session, customizing recipes for international cuisines and beverages, and sharing baking techniques by leading chefs. People have become increasingly familiar with, and reliant on, online services. This has prompted us to carry out more aggressive digital reforms and become agile in our daily operations, such as the rollout of highend catering delivery services, Qian, from Hilton, said. Ferreros De Felip pointed to the importance of having an ecommerce presence in China through partnerships with local platforms like Alibaba and JD. We are moving to a Next Normal reality, which requires great resilience and operational efficiency in the way of doing business. The rise of the contactless economy will impose adjustments on our operations, will change consumer behavior, and market attractiveness will be different, he said. He added that new models and businesses are quickly emerging in China, including the acceleration of omnichannel transformation, ecommerce and the big datadriven digital economy, which are creating new ways of engaging with consumers. LOreal also sees China as a crucial market for new product launches and debuts. The latest moves have included a skin care product tailored for the domestic market and a smart foundation that uses algorithms to help determine skin tones and choose the right shade for the customer. According to Megarbane, the company has further strengthened digital services, such as livestreaming, virtual product launches and makeup trials, as well as artificial intelligenceempowered skin condition examinations. Ive always liked the Chinese way of interpreting crisis, or Wei Ji, which literally translates as opportunities embedded in crisis, he said. Dont waste any opportunities brought about by a crisis.