States ease restrictions amid virus concerns
2020/5/4 23:40
People enjoy Sheep Meadow in Central Park during the coronavirus pandemic on May ,  in New York City. COVID has spread to most countries around the world, claiming over , lives with over . million infections reported.  People across the United States went to beaches, golf courses, parks and lakes over the weekend  or got haircuts and even tattoos  as many states eased stayathome rules put in place to stop the spread of the novel coronavirus, but health experts expressed concern that it all may be too much too soon. Former Food and Drug Administration commissioner Scott Gottlieb warned Sunday that if states allow schools, workplaces and other public areas to let their guard down, an explosion of new coronavirus infections could bubble up into a new epidemic or large outbreak. The concerning thing here is that were looking at the prospect that this may be a persistent spread, Gottlieb said on CBS Face the Nation. Gottlieb said that new cases are still happening in about  states, including Illinois, Texas, Maryland, Virginia, North Carolina and Tennessee, among others. Dr Tom Inglesby, director of the Center for Health Security at the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health, said that if restrictions are lifted too soon, the virus could come back in small waves in various places around the country. Nothing has changed in the underlying dynamics of this virus, he said Sunday on NBCs Meet the Press. On Friday, more than  states started easing social distancing restrictions. Some opened all outdoor activities while others allowed a limited variety of businesses to restart. Youre making a big mistake. Its going to cost lives, Dr Irwin Redlener, a pediatrician and disaster preparedness specialist at Columbia University Medical Center, told CNN on Friday. Redlener and Joseph Fair, a senior fellow in pandemic policy at Texas AM, sent a report to all governors Friday warning them that no state or city should reduce restrictions until coronavirus infections have been steadily decreasing for  days to two weeks, and not until enough tests are available to assess just how many people really are infected. On Sunday, White House Coronavirus Task Force coordinator Dr Deborah Birx criticized protests by maskless crowds demanding an end to stayathome orders. Its devastatingly worrisome to me personally, because if they go home and infect their grandmother or their grandfather ... they will feel guilty for the rest of our lives, she said on Fox News. So we need to protect each other at the same time were voicing our discontent. Also on Sunday, Michigan Governor Gretchen Whitmer said protests inside the state capitol building Thursday, featuring demonstrators with assault weapons, swastikas and Confederate flags, depicted some of the worst racism and awful parts of the nations history. The Confederate flags and nooses, the swastikas, the behavior that youve seen in all of the clips is not representative of who we are in Michigan, she said. Photos from the protest showed hundreds of participants crammed inside the building, many of whom were not wearing masks and flouted federal social distancing guidelines. President Donald Trump tweeted in support of the protesters Friday morning, saying, The Governor of Michigan should give a little, and put out the fire. These are very good people, but they are angry. They want their lives back again, safely! See them, talk to them, make a deal. Whitmer responded We have to listen not to pollsters and not just people with political agendas but to epidemiologists. Were making decisions based on science, not on a tweet. Remdesivir, the first possible scientifically proven treatment for battling COVID, will become available to US hospitals this week. Daniel ODay, CEO of Gilead Sciences, the biotech company that makes the drug, said on Face the Nation on Sunday that the company had donated . million vials to the US government, enough to treat , to , patients.