Europeans winning back some freedom
2020/5/4 12:25
Kilian, , wears a protective face mask as he jumps from a bench in Igualada, Spain, after restrictions on children going outside during the novel coronavirus outbreak were partially lifted.  Spaniards dash outside, but France tightens up and cases spike jolts Russia Spaniards took to the streets to jog, cycle and rollerskate for the first time following  days of confinement on Saturday as some European nations cautiously eased coronavirus lockdowns. In contrast, concerns deepened in Russia after a surge in infections. But in hardhit Spain, from Madrid to Mallorca, people flocked to the streets as they were allowed to exercise and walk freely outside after the government eased seven weeks of strict lockdown. It is among the countries with the most fatalities, at more than ,. After so many weeks in confinement, I wanted to go out, run, see the world, said financial adviser Marcos Abeytua in Madrid.Yesterday, I was like a child on Christmas Eve. Near the citys Retiro park, residents were out running, sometimes in groups. Crowds of joggers mingled with cyclists and skateboarders in Barcelonas seaside neighborhood. Spain, Germany, Austria and Scandinavian nations are gradually easing lockdowns as virus cases slow, though they will keep social distancing measures, the use of masks and testing to try to track infections. The virus has now killed more than , people worldwide, according to the World Health Organization. Contingency plan The British government had a contingency plan for Prime Minister Boris Johnsons death as his condition deteriorated while he battled the virus last month in intensive care, Johnson said in an interview with The Sun newspaper. Johnson returned to work on April , a month after testing positive for COVID. He spent  days in isolation in Downing Street from late March, but was then was taken to Londons St Thomas Hospital where he received oxygen treatment and spent three nights in intensive care. French Health Minister Olivier Veran said people traveling into France, including citizens returning home, will be placed in a day quarantine as part of new, extended proposals to limit the spread of the virus. Arrivals in France are restricted to those on essential travel, and a travel certificate is required. In Russia, authorities reported the countrys largest spike in coronavirus cases, with new infections rising by nearly , in a single day. In Moscow, the epicenter of Russias outbreak, around  percent of the population is infected by the virus causing COVID.The threat is apparently on the rise, said Moscow Mayor Sergei Sobyanin. India on Sunday reported its biggest oneday jump in cases as the country entered the th day of a nationwide lockdown. Confirmed infections had neared the , mark and the death toll reached ,, including  deaths in the last  hours, officials said on Sunday afternoon. The , newly confirmed cases are the most for a single day in the country. The sixweek lockdown, which had been supposed to end on April , was extended another two weeks. Chinese medical experts arrive in Yinchuan, Northwest Chinas Ningxia Hui autonomous region, on Saturday. They had just completed their mission in Saudi Arabia and Kuwait to help fight against the coronavirus.  Chinese medical teams On Saturday, China sent a second group of three medical experts to Serbia that will help the country fight against the coronavirus in the next two months. The first group went to Serbia on March . In Saudi Arabia, , new coronavirus cases were recorded on Saturday, raising the tally to , in the kingdom. The death toll increased by seven to , according to health authorities. A Chinese medical team returned to China on Saturday after the eight experts completed their mission to aid in the battle against COVID in Saudi Arabia and Kuwait. The experts were sent with medical supplies to Saudi Arabia on April , with backgrounds in virus testing, and infectious and respiratory diseases, among other fields. On April , the experts left for Kuwait, where they exchanged experiences with local health experts and medical staff. Chen Yingqun in Beijing, Xinhua and agencies contributed to this story.