European nations plan to start slow relaxation of lockdown restrictions
2020/5/4 11:01
As tourism increases during the May Day holiday, held from May  to  this year, major scenic spots in Shenyang, capital of Northeast Chinas Liaoning province, have taken strict measures to prevent and control the novel coronavirus. Shenyang Palace Museum Tickets for Shenyang Palace Museum are only available online and require real name registration. The museum accepts , visitors per day, while all visitors should accept body temperature measurements and show health QR codes. All the service facilities in the scenic spot are disinfected twice a day, while guardrails and exhibition cabinets are disinfected at all times. All front line staff members of the scenic spots wear face masks and disposable gloves to protect both visitors and themselves. Beiling Park All visitors should wear face masks when visiting the park. Local citizens should present health QR codes or other valid certificates before entering, visitors from lowrisk areas should show identity cards and receive body temperature measurement, those from highrisk areas should present both identity cards and a negative nucleic acid test report taken in the past seven days. Visitors are required to maintain a .meter distance between each other, and encouraged to buy tickets online to avoid contact. The tourist number should not exceed  percent of the parks maximum capacity. All toilets are disinfected every two hours, benches are disinfected twice a day and recreational facilities are disinfected after every use. Fantawild Adventure Visitors should register with real names at Fantawilds app or other official online ticket platforms to buy tickets, and show a health QR code and have body temperature taken before entering. Visitors from highrisk areas should also present a negative report from a nucleic acid test taken in the past seven days. Visitors are required to wear face masks at all times and staff members of the amusement park also wear face masks. The tourist number should not exceed  percent of the parks maximum capacity. All public facilities and toilets are disinfected regularly every day. Hand sanitizer and free masks are available for visitors.