Cases fall in some parts of Europe  die in Britain as infections rise
2020/5/4 10:56
People wearing face masks walk on a footbridge in Wan Chai, Hong Kong, in the morning of May , . Photo by Calvin NGChina Daily After a pandemicinduced shutdown of more than a month, most major public services in Hong Kong were restored on Monday morning. The majority of the citys , civil servants will return to work in their offices on Monday. As of Sunday, the city had not seen a new case of COVID transmitted locally for  days in a row. On March , the government suspended most nonemergency public services and temporarily closed public places of leisure, and told civil servants to work from home to contain the transmission of virus. About , civil servants had since worked from home and another approximately , had worked every other day to minimize the risk of coronavirus infection. Outdoor sports grounds, public libraries and museums reopened in a phased manner on Monday. The current ban on gatherings of more than four people in public places at a time and the order to keep entertainment venues closed will remain in force through Thursday. Visitors to any indoor public facility that reopened on Monday must wear masks, and will have their temperature checked. Security guards monitor on screen people entering Revenue Tower in Wan Chai, Hong Kong, on May , . Photo by Calvin NGChina Daily Government departments are advised, however, to maintain flexible working hours and lunch breaks, and to schedule video calls instead of facetoface meetings. Public schools and performance venues remain closed until further notice. People who work for such institutions will continue to work from home. Court proceedings also resumed. Court and tribunal registries will start to reopen in phases on Wednesday, with registries of the Court of Final Appeal and the High Court scheduled to open first. Because of the prevailing concern about the public health situation and the need for social distancing, court proceedings will be initially held with a reduced capacity. A mandatory day home quarantine arrangement for all arrivals from the Chinese mainland, Macao and Taiwan stays in force until June .