Big data How will Chinese spend Labor Day holiday amid COVID?
2020/5/4 0:00
NAIROBI, KenyaGreen, yellow, white and blue are among the variety of colors of face masks being sold in Kenya in the fight against COVID. The materials used to make them include cotton, polyester and translucent lining. The masks are now in huge supply across the East Africa nation, days after the government made it compulsory to wear them in public to curb the spread of the novel coronavirus. Health Cabinet Secretary Mutahi Kagwe on April  gazetted laws that make it a crime to be in public without face masks. Anyone found culpable risks a fine of , shillings about  or six months in jail. At the center of the production of maskssome stylishare tailors across the country. The garment makers have seized the opportunity to make the gadgets that were in short supply due to disruption of global trade, boosting Kenyans war against COVID. It takes about  minutes to sew each mask after measurement has been done and the size cut, said Moses Oduor, a tailor in Kitengela, south of Nairobi. Oduor observed that for the past a few weeks, he has suspended any other work at his tailoring shop to make the masks. We are three of us. We took the work as urgent and started production of the reusable masks, he said. He has employed a marketing agent to walk around the sprawling urban center selling the masks at different prices depending on the design. Our targets are traders at market, motorbike riders and commuters at bus parks, said Oduor, adding, however, competition is tough as many people are selling them. In Kakamega, western Kenya, tailor Florence Mwaka, said she started producing the gadgets early last month, but has since temporarily stopped when the county government started to issue free masks, especially to smallscale traders and motorbike riders. I will resume in a weeks time when demand will have started going up since most of the people who have received free masks would have disposed theirs, said Mwaka, who sells the masks. Presidents appeal While encouraging Kenyans to wear masks, President Uhuru Kenyatta on April  asked tailors to help the country produce the gadgets to increase supply and thus lower prices. There would be thousands of tailors, who will make the masks and earn a living, but they will be guided on how to do it, he said. However, not only small tailors have taken Kenyattas calls with gusto, in eastern Kenya, a textile factory run by the Kitui county government has won praise for stopping all its activities to produce some , face masks a day. Most of the masks being made by the factory named Kitui County Textile Center Kicotec are being bought by counties, national government, NGOs and corporates for distribution to vulnerable groups and workers. The factory has employed at least  tailors, mostly women for the work that involves cutting the fabric, stitching and packaging, and also makes personal protective gear for health workers. We are doing everything possible to produce the necessary gear for our people and medical personnel, who are on the frontline fighting for us and the nation especially during this time of the pandemic, said Kitui Governor Charity Ngilu. Ernest Manuyo, a business lecturer at Pioneer Institute in Nairobi, noted that Kenyas production ability has been brought out by the crisis. Initially, these masks were being imported but Kenya has now resorted to local production which means creation of jobs and thus building the local capacity. This is one of the positive things to come out of the crisis and should be sustained, he said. Xinhua A local artist makes and sells face masks made from cloth in the Nairobi, Kenya, on April . Kenya has so far cordoned off the capital and parts of its coastline and imposed a nighttime curfew and other social distancing measures in its bid to curb the spread of the coronavirus. TONY KARUMBAAFP ? ?