Spanish sports venues set for return of fans
2021/8/6 9:03
General view of the corner flag inside the San Mames stadium before the match between Athletic Bilbao and Real Madrid, Bilbao, Spain, May , .  Sporting venues in Spain will be allowed to have up to  percent capacity crowds in August after the countrys health ministry announced a trial relaxation of measures. Health minister Carolina Darias said that until the end of the month, when guidelines would be reassessed, open air venues can have up to  percent of their seats filled, with closed arenas for sports such as basketball being allowed to have up to  percent, although social distancing of . meters would still be required between fans, masks must be worn, and smoking and eating inside arenas will be forbidden. The minister said the country was at a stabilization phase regarding the spread of COVID, with the most recent day incidence rate of the virus at  cases per , people,  less than the previous days figure. A small number of fans were allowed into some games at the end of the last soccer season, depending on the local health situation, but the latest announcement is seen as a more significant step. Spain, along with Italy, was among the first countries in Europe to be hit by the pandemic in its earliest stages, specifically because of a UEFA Champions League soccer match on  Feb , between Italian side Atalanta and Spanish side Valencia. This was attended by more than , Italian fans who traveled from the city of Bergamo to Milan, where the game was held because of its bigger stadium capacity, along with an estimated , Valencia fans. Players from both teams subsequently tested positive, and two days after the game, the first case of locally transmitted COVID was recorded in Italy, with Fabiano di Marco, a specialist at the Pope John XXIII hospital in Bergamo, telling the Corriere della Sera newspaper that the match had been a biological bomb, unfortunately. Spains latest death toll is ,, with the Delta variant accounting for  percent of new infections. The new rule will come into effect on Aug , which is the same weekend that Spains top soccer competition, La Liga, starts its new season. Priority for match admission will be given to season ticket holders, and fan travel from region to region will be discouraged. Bilbao in northern Spain had been scheduled to host games in this years delayed Euro  championship, before games were switched to Seville in southern Spain because the local authorities could not give guarantees about what numbers of spectators would be allowed into the stadium because of the local COVID situation, a decision by European soccers governing body UEFA that enraged the local authorities. Quoted in El Pais newspaper, former World Health Organization official Rafael Bengoa said Spain had not handled the fourth wave of infection well, leading to the latest wave, and a repeat must be avoided. With the delta variant, we have to be very patient because it is much more contagious, he said. We must ensure we have two or three weeks with a very low incidence rate and in this case, we will have a good autumn.