Tourism sector to see May Day uptick
2020/5/3 22:22
Britains Prime Minister Boris Johnson applauds outside  Downing Street during the Clap for our Carers campaign in support of the NHS, following the outbreak of the coronavirus disease COVID, in London, Britain, April , .  LONDON  The British government had a contingency plan for Prime Minister Boris Johnsons death as he battled COVID in intensive care last month, he said in an interview with The Sun newspaper. Johnson, , returned to work on Monday, a month after testing positive for COVID. He spent  days in isolation in Downing Street before he was taken to Londons St Thomas Hospital where he spent three nights in intensive care. They had a strategy to deal with a death of Stalintype scenario, Johnson was quoted as saying in Sundays edition of The Sun. It was a tough old moment, I wont deny it. Johnson said that during the period when he was selfisolating in Downing Street, he had resisted going to hospital. I was in denial because I was working and I kept doing these meetings by videolink, he said. But I was really feeling pretty groggy ... I was feeling pretty wasted, not in an intoxicated way, but just, you know, pretty rough. Then I was told I had to go into St Thomas. I said I really didnt want to go into hospital. It didnt seem to me to be a good move but they were pretty adamant. Looking back, they were right to force me to go. Britains Prime Minister Boris Johnson is seen in a screen grab from his Twitter video update, amid the coronavirus disease COVID outbreak in London, Britain April , . Johnson was admitted to a ward on April  and given oxygen via a face mask and a tube in his nose.?But it soon became clear he needed more and so he was given a large face mask. Events took a turn for the worse and got a bit scary when he was moved to intensive care the next day. I was going through litres and litres of oxygen for a long time, he said. At one point, doctors discussed invasive ventilation. The bad moment came when it was  whether they were going to have to put a tube down my windpipe, he said. That was when it got a bit?They were starting to think about how to handle it presentationally. The Prime Minister said the bloody indicators kept going in the wrong direction and he realized there was no cure for the disease. After Johnson was discharged, St Thomas said it was glad to have cared for the prime minister, but the hospital has given no details about the gravity of his illness beyond stating that he was treated in intensive care. Johnson and his fiance, Carrie Symonds, on Saturday announced they had named their newborn son Wilfred Lawrie Nicholas, partly as a tribute to two intensive care doctors called Nicholas who they said had saved Johnsons life. Agencies