Chinas military has always been a promoter of world peace
2021/8/6 7:53
Soldiers of the Hardboned Sixth Company of the th Army Group of the Peoples Liberation Army take part in a battle drill in a coastal area of Guangdong province on June , .  At the recent G, NATO and United StatesEuropean Union meetings, relevant countries and organizations issued joint communiques or declarations, which among other things, said that China posed a systemic challenge to the international order, and that they are seriously concerned about the situation in the East and South China seas and oppose any unilateral attempts to change the status quo. Such statements, which distort the development goals of China and its military and propagate the China threat theory, reveal the Wests Cold War and zerosum mentality. Not to mention that they go against the historical trend of peace, development, cooperation and mutual benefit, and run counter to the wishes of the people of the world. As President Xi Jinping, who is also general secretary of the CPC Central Committee, saidAll that the Communist Party of China does is to seek happiness for the Chinese people, rejuvenation for the nation and peace and development for the whole humanity. Led by the CPC, Chinas military will always remain true to its original aspiration, keep its mission firmly in mind, assiduously fulfill the tasks entrusted to it by the Party and the people, and work to realize the Chinese Dream of national rejuvenation and promote world peace and security. Facing increasingly diverse security threats, Chinas military is keenly aware of the utmost importance and urgency to safeguard national security. On issues concerning Chinas sovereignty and territorial integrity, the military will take all necessary measures to safeguard national unity with stronger determination and through more reliable means. Guided by Xis call to help build a community with a shared future for mankind, the military will help the leadership fulfill Chinas global responsibilities and provide more public security goods for the world. Since the outbreak of the COVID pandemic, Chinas military has faithfully implemented the concept of building a global community of health for all proposed by Xi and deepened cooperation with foreign militaries in pandemic prevention and control. So far, Chinas military has supplied assistance materials such as face masks and ventilators to more than  countries including Mozambique, Serbia, Cuba and Laos, sent medical expert teams to four countries including Cambodia and Pakistan, and held online experiencesharing meetings with nearly  militaries and international organizations including those of Russia and Singapore. Since the founding of the Peoples Republic in , China has unswervingly pursued a national defense policy that is defensive in nature. Since the beginning of this century, China has had no part in any war or armed conflict nor has it triggered any crisis in any region. As far as international peacekeeping is concerned, China is the secondlargest contributor to both peacekeeping assessment and United Nations membership fees, and the largest troopcontributing country among the permanent members of the UN Security Council. Also, it has sent more than , peacekeepers to nearly  UN missions. To ensure the safety of maritime routes, the Chinese military has deployed naval ships to escort merchant vessels in the Gulf of Aden and the waters off the coast of Somalia. Over the past decade,  Peoples Liberation Army Navy convoys, each consisting of three to four ships, have provided security cover to about , Chinese and foreign ships at sea. In recent years, the Peace Ark, the PLA Navys hospital ship, has visited more than  countries and regions around the world, providing medical services for over , people. History shows that no matter how strong the Chinese military becomes, China will never try to establish its hegemony or expand its sphere of influence. Chinas military will always be a staunch force for regional and international peace and stability. The author is Chinas defense attache to the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland. The views dont necessarily reflect those of China Daily. If you have a specific expertise, or would like to share your thought about our stories, then send us your writings at opinionchinadaily.com.cn, and commentchinadaily.com.cn.