Europe Coronavirus Updates UK COVID deaths top ,, France extends state of health emergency
2020/5/3 6:53
? FILE PHOTO A woman wearing a mask is seen at Heathrow airport, London, April , .   UK COVID deaths top ,  Italy sees new COVID cases falling, ICU patients keep decreasing  French government extends state of health emergency until July   Spanish PM to ask for State of Alarm extension for fourth time. BRUSSELS  The following are the latest developments of the COVID pandemic in European countries. LONDON  Another  COVID patients have died in Britain, bringing the total coronavirusrelated death toll in the country to ,, Communities Secretary Robert Jenrick said Saturday. The figures include deaths in hospitals, care homes and the wider community. Chairing Saturdays Downing Street briefing, Jenrick said , people have tested positive for the novel coronavirus in Britain. Workers disinfect a closed restaurant in Rome, Italy, April , .  ROME  Italy saw , new COVID infections and , new recoveries in the last  hours, bringing the nationwide total to , and ,, respectively, according to the latest numbers released by the Civil Protection Department on Saturday. New fatalities reported on Saturday were , bringing the toll to , since the pandemic first broke out in the countrys northern Lombardy region on Feb. . Residents watch a film screened on the wall at the rue Daubenton in Paris, France, May , .  PARIS  The French government has decided to extend the state of health emergency until July  to fight against the coronavirus pandemic, Minister of Health Olivier Veran announced on Saturday. The state of health emergency, installed since March , is to be extended because lifting it, as previously scheduled on May , would be premature as the risks of an epidemic resurgence are present, the minister told a press conference. A bill on the extension of the state of health emergency will be debated next week in the Senate before being sent to the National Assembly, said government spokesperson Sibeth Ndiaye at the press conference. Isabel Diaz Ayuso nd L F, president of the Madrid Region, Mayor of Madrid Jose Luis Martinez Almeida nd R and staff members applaud during the closing ceremony of a field hospital built to treat COVID patients in Madrid, Spain, May , . MADRID  Spanish Prime Minister Pedro Sanchez said on Saturday that he will ask the parliament next week to extend the State of Alarm that was imposed since March  for a further  days when it expires on May . If the request was granted by the Congress, the lower chamber of Spanish Parliament, it would be the fourth extension. The State of Alarm has worked in Spain... so we will ask the Congress for another extension for a further  days, said Sanchez in a televised speech given on the same day when the majority of Spaniards were allowed outdoors to take exercise for the first time after seven weeks of virtual lockdown.