US too busy blaming others to protect its people
2020/5/2 13:48
A sculpture in the likeness of a coronavirus particle is seen outside a property that borders a road leading to St. Michaels, Maryland, amid the coronavirus disease COVID outbreak in the US, April , .  On Friday, the World Health Organization reiterated that the novel coronavirus, which caused a major pandemic in the world, is natural in origin. Frankly speaking, thats not a fresh conclusion. As early as in January, there had been wide consensus among scientists that the novel coronavirus could not possibly have come from manmade sources and that its origin was definitely in nature. A few Indian scientists claimed it might have been manmade in origin in their shared paper on the prepublishing website BioRxiv, but they soon withdrew that paper and apologized for that groundless guess. Yet some US politicians have insisted on conspiracy theories despite the wide consensus among global scientists. In their tweets, public speeches as well as interviews, they repeatedly called for investigations of China. Their conspiracy theories against China are so evident in their words and deeds, that one has to wonder why they harbor so much hate and bias against China. At least one thing is certain  namely, that the US politicians involved lack the most basic scientific spirit and knowledge. These are the same politicians who openly mentioned injecting disinfectants to cure the novel coronavirus, after which cases of mistaken exposure to bleach doubled in New York alone Who went to a hospital without wearing a mask, and was the only person in a photo doing so Who threatened to fire a top scientist even though the latter enjoyed wide popularity and credibility, only because he tried to say something different from what the politicians wanted. US politicians were so busy blaming others that they had no time to protect Americans from COVID. By Friday, the number of infections in the US reached . million, while deaths hit ,, topping the world. Do they mean to make it America First in terms of infections? Being elected by US voters and supported by US taxpayers, they are tasked with protecting the US people, but now they have failed in doing that. Better to spare some time and energy on helping their own people and prevent the novel coronavirus from spreading too much further.