Japan mulls extension of emergency
2020/5/2 7:12
A man wearing a protective face mask makes his way through an almost empty international departure terminal of Haneda Airport, where fewer people than usual are seen during Golden Week holidays following the COVID outbreak, in Tokyo, Japan April , .  TOKYOJapan will formally decide as early as Monday whether to extend its nationwide state of emergency, as experts said the current containment policies should be kept in place until the number of new infections fell further. The nationwide state of emergency is set to expire on May , but Prime Minister Shinzo Abe warned citizens on Thursday to prepare for a drawnout battle against the virus. Experts said at the Friday meeting that it was desirable for Japan to keep its current framework of coronavirus containment policies until the number of new infections fell to a certain unspecified level. Elsewhere in Asia, a team of medical personnel from the Chinese Peoples Liberation Army on Thursday provided assistance to the Myanmar military in building a laboratory for testing COVID. The Chinese military medical team helped in installation of laboratory equipment and related materials, which were donated by the Chinese side, and provided guidance to operate the equipment at the laboratory at the No  Defense Services General Hospital in Mingaladon township, Yangon. As of Thursday, Myanmar had reported  confirmed COVID cases with six deaths. Meanwhile, Malaysia will allow the majority of businesses to resume operations from May , Prime Minister Muhyiddin Yassin said on Friday, easing restrictions imposed on March  to contain the spread of the coronavirus. Economic sectors that involve large gatherings of people will, however, not be allowed to reopen, Muhyiddin said. Coronavirus infections in Malaysia stood at , as of Thursday, and the pace of new cases has slowed in recent days. Another daily high in India India, by Friday, had registered another daily high in coronavirus cases, with nearly , recorded in the past  hours. Indias health ministry said the , new cases and  more deaths took the countrys totals to , with , deaths. The government is due to decide the future of its day lockdown on Sunday. But it allowed migrant workers and other stranded people to resume their journeys on Wednesday, as well as some shops to reopen and manufacturing and farming to resume. In the Middle East, the tally of COVID infections in Turkey crossed another threshold as it increased to , on Thursday. The country has conducted over  million tests for the coronavirus, so the increase in the number of cases was predictable, Turkeys Health Minister Fahrettin Koca said. In Africa, the death toll from the ongoing COVID pandemic reached , as the number of confirmed cases hit , as of Thursday, the Africa Center for Disease Control and Prevention said. The Africa CDC also said it had received the third round of medical equipment and supplies donated by Chinas Jack Ma Foundation and Alibaba Foundation in support of the African continents fight against the spread of COVID. In South Africa, schools and universities are set to open under strict conditions to curb the spread of COVID, officials said. The measures include no more than two learners sharing desks, no hugging or handshaking, no direct contact and cloth masks to be worn by learners and teachers at all times, said Minister of Basic Education Angie Motshekga.