COVID crisis Older persons are the pillars of our society C we cannot leave them behind
2020/5/2 0:40
People wearing protective masks wait for checking their temperature in an Apple Store, in Shanghai, Feb , .  Apple on Thursday reported a slight uptick in yearoveryear revenue despite supply chain disruptions and closure of its stores in China and worldwide due to the coronavirus pandemic. Secondquarter revenue rose  percent to . billion, but profit declined about  percent to . billion, or . a share. The results beat analysts estimates of about  billion in revenue, but fell short of the companys projections of about  billion issued before the worldwide outbreak of COVID. Despite COVIDs unprecedented global impact, were proud to report that Apple grew for the quarter, driven by an alltime high record in Services and a quarterly record for Wearables, Tim Cook, Apples CEO, said in a statement. Despite the economic turmoil, Apple declared a cash dividend of . a share for the companys common stock, an increase of  percent. The board of directors also authorized a  billion increase to the share repurchase program. In Apples fiscal year , the company spent . billion repurchasing shares and . billion on dividends. Many publicly traded companies have suspended buybacks during the pandemic. But Apple had . billion on hand at the start of the calendar year, according to company filings. However, Apple didnt offer earnings guidance for the quarter ending in June as it did in the past. Apple has been hit hard by supply chain disruptions caused by the coronavirus in China. The company rescinded its initial guidance for the second quarter in February after China extended the Lunar New Year holiday as part of the effort to reduce the spread of the coronavirus. Apple closed its stores in China and didnt reopen them until March. As the coronavirus spread, Apple closed stores around the world. As a result, Apple faced three problems in the quarter supply constraints, sales outlets closure and a sharp reduction in demand as shelterinplace orders took effect in its markets. Despite the challenges, Apple still hopes to launch its nextgeneration iPhone, including some with G connectivity in September. But market availability could slip a month, The Wall Street Journal reported. The new iPhones will carry Apple through the holiday season and into . Analysts believe the G capability will generate robust sales and more users than normal decide to upgrade their devices. But that assessment depends on the economy restarting and millions of people returning to work in before the new phones are available. Apple launched its iPad Pro with a  keyboard option, and its  MacBook Air laptop during the pandemic. After the quarter ended, the company in April launched the iPhone SE that retails for .