Back to the grind
2020/5/1 10:12
With the novel coronavirus outbreak largely contained in China, work and production have gradually resumed in many sectors. Construction work for the Beijing  Winter Olympic Games and the second phase of the National Convention Center project resumed in February. To ensure the safety of the workers, stringent measures such as temperature readings, face masks and controlled meal services have been implemented at the sites. A total of  out of  construction projects have resumed in downtown Beijing and the capitals Yanqing district. Beijing will be the first city in the world to host both the summer and winter Olympic Games. China Dailys photographer Kuang Linhua has captured these images of projects. A welder works on the steel rooftop of Beijings National Convention Center on April , with the Birds Nest in the background. The construction work is the second phase of a project to expand the convention center. Photo by Kuang LinhuaChina Daily ? Chen Bo, a welder working at the National Convention Center construction site, takes a drink of water during his break on April . The brightly lit Olympic Tower can be seen in the background. Photo by Kuang LinhuaChina Daily Workers dressed in thick coats clean up debris at the construction site of the National Alpine Ski Center on Yanqing Haituo Mountain in Beijing on April . Photo by Kuang LinhuaChina Daily Workers erect scaffolding at a hotel construction site near the Shougang Ski Jumping Platform in Beijing on April . The hotel is being constructed for the Olympics and is situated close to the former cooling tower of Shougang industrial park. Photo by Kuang LinhuaChina Daily Workers are hoisted on a boom lift at the construction site of the National Speed Skating Oval on April . Photo by Kuang LinhuaChina Daily Migrant workers from Sichuan province arrive at the construction site of the National Convention Center by chartered bus on April . To reduce the risk of infections via travel, buses are ferrying migrant workers from their hometowns to the construction sites. Photo by Kuang LinhuaChina Daily The National Speed Skating Oval in Beijing, dubbed the Ice Ribbon, takes shape with the completion of the roof on April . The venue was built for the Winter Olympics, and will be open for use to both professional athletes and members of the public. Photo by Kuang LinhuaChina Daily ?