Forbidden City reopens after over  months
2020/4/30 22:43
A man rides through the square in front of the Palace Museums Wumen Gate on April , . Photo by Jiang Dongchinadaily.com.cn Cultural heritage enthusiasts got a longawaited surprise on the eve of the May Day holiday. The Palace Museum, also known as the Forbidden City, announced Wednesday night it will gradually resume openingup in good order beginning Friday, ending a more than threemonth closure due to COVID. The announcement reignited the publics frustrated passion for the Forbidden City, Chinas former imperial palace, as this year marks its th anniversary. According to the museums online booking system, tickets for Friday sold out an hour and a half after the news was released at  pm, and all , tickets throughout the fiveday May Day holiday were gone within  hours. Only some of the outdoor sections, including the central route, and courtyards and gardens in western and eastern side of the compound, will be open to the public starting Friday. All city walls and galleries will remain temporarily closed. An ID card is needed to buy tickets via advance online reservation and may be purchased up to  days before a planned visit. A ,visitor daily cap is set  , before  pm and , afterward. Before the COVID outbreak, the cap stood at , visitors per day. The Gate of Supreme Harmony Taihemen.  Sina Weibo account of the Palace Museum The National Museum of China also announced on Wednesday night it will reopen starting Friday and will adopt similar policies to the palaces. It will accept , visitors daily, scattered over three time periods, and online reservations are available seven days in advance. Tickets for Friday must be booked by noon on Thursday. All tickets are free. The two museums in the heart of Beijing, holding Chinas two largest collections  about . million at the Palace Museum and  million in the National Museum of China  were closed before Spring Festival because of the coronavirus. Visitors body temperature will be checked before they enter, and they are required to wear face masks in the museums. Green QR codes on their mobile phones, signifying good health, are required, and they must maintain meter social distancing. In a State Council Information Office news conference on Thursday, Luo Shugang, minister of culture and tourism, called on the countrys scenic sites to learn from the examples set by the two museums. Were still in the containment phase of virus control. The pressure were facing is not small, he said. Luo urged local administrators to avoid hastily increasing visitor flow and to plan well. Seventy percent of Chinas scenic spots have reopened. According to the Ministry of Culture and Tourism, daily visits to all scenic sites will be up to  percent of their maximum capacity. Tourists have been in home quarantine for a pretty long time, he said. Their desire for travel will be high ... but tourism resources can only be partially accessed now, with limitations.