Tourism bouncing back as COVID comes under control
2020/4/30 16:19
The th international tulip festival is now underway at the Shenyang Botanical Garden Shenyang Expo Garden in Shenyang, capital of Northeast Chinas Liaoning province and the event will run until to May , according to the organizers. They said that in addition to tulips, azaleas, begonias and magnolia are also in blossom, attracting enthusiasts. The garden has recently launched some measures for visitors during the May Day holiday  from May  to  this year. The garden will handle a maximum capacity of , visitors every day during the holiday and they can only book tickets online or through the official WeChat account of the Shenyang Expo Garden. After successful booking, visitors can enter the garden with their identification cards. In addition, green health codes are needed when entering the garden. Also, visitors from outside Liaoning province need to show identification cards, health certificates and travelling track proof. To obtain travelling track proof Enter the text message CXMYD  last four digits of ID card number. China Mobile users should send it to , China Unicom users to  and China Telecom users to . Visitors must wear face masks and get body temperature measurements before entering the garden. Opening hours during the May Day holiday  hrs ticket selling stops at  hrs visitors should keep personal distances above . meters and a tourist group should have at most  people. Tickets  yuan . per person Halfprice tickets visitors from  to  years old who hold valid IDs fulltime undergraduates who hold valid certificates and  years old seniors who hold their own valid IDs. Free entrance seniors aged  and above children under . meters including . meters retired cadres firefighters active military personnel public security police officers disabled military personnel disabled people and national medical personnel please present your valid work certificate when showing the ticket. For information, telephone  Information telephone service time  For information on purchasing group tickets  Fax 