Profile Antivirus story of an iron buddy
2020/4/30 11:07
Workers unload the medical materials arrived with the Chinese medical expert team at the Islamabad International Airport in Islamabad, capital of Pakistan, March , .  LANZHOU  Handing out face masks and disinfection supplies, Nabeel Pervaiz, a Pakistani college counselor at Lanzhou University in northwest Chinas Gansu Province, walked through one dormitory room after another, busy checking on the international students. Pervaiz, , has been working for about one year in the School of International Cultural Exchange at the university where he finished his bachelors and masters degree in basic medicine. He is the first foreign administrative staff member employed by the university. He had fond feelings for his alma mater and engaged in the management of international students upon graduation, which was not what his mother had expected because she wanted him to return home. Life is so convenient in China with accommodating locals, and Im well adapted to Lanzhous eating habits since the city is home to a large number of Muslims like me, Pervaiz said, adding that China is full of opportunities for foreigners. His mother was assured and finally reached by Pervaizs persuasion after he told her about Chinas efforts in curbing the spread of the virus, then encouraged him to take the job seriously. China has taken timely measures since the outbreak of the COVID epidemic. As Chinas allweather strategic partner, Pakistan donated , medical masks,  hazmat suits and , pairs of gloves to China in February. Many international students and foreign teachers at the university have stayed to join the fight against COVID in Lanzhou. Anthony Que, a yearold American who has been recently hired by the university as an English teacher, donated breathing masks, respirators and medical gloves to the First Hospital of Lanzhou University. Hendra Kurniawan, a student from Indonesia, also donated face masks to the hospital with the help of his friends back in his home country. Pervaiz was deeply touched by their deeds and said he hoped to contribute. He stuck to his post as a counselor, distribute masks, disinfectants and other essentials to international students, took records of their health conditions and posted antiepidemic knowledge on social media platforms. As epidemic wanes in China, the Chinese government and the society have been assisting the international community, including Pakistan, Chinas iron buddy, in various forms to stem COVID. Medical supplies have been donated to Pakistan, and a team of experts was sent to Pakistan on an aid mission in late March, sharing their experience through video conferences and offering practical, specific suggestions to their Pakistani peers. All for one and one for all, Pervaiz said, adding that he will stay focused on the needs of his students, keep encouraging them and offer psychological counseling.