Photo album captures touching moments in Chinas COVID fight
2020/4/30 10:50
The cover of the photo album  Photographers Focus on COVID. A newly published photo album sheds light on some of the indelible moments in Chinese peoples tenacious fight against the novel coronavirus. The album, titled  Photographers Focus on COVID, is a collection of  images taken by more than  photographers across the country, many of them captured on the front lines of fighting COVID. The cover features a medical worker with deep imprints left on her face from wearing mask and goggles for a long time. The photo offers a glimpse of the arduous efforts made by the more than , health workers sent to Hubei province, the area hit hardest in China by the virus, to help their local peers cure COVID patients. Li Ge, a veteran photographer who led the program that recorded the images of each and every of the medical workers aiding Hubei, said They are not only over , portraits, but also over , stories, and over , times of our hearts getting touched. Some of the medical workers portraits are included in the album. Xu Zugen, chairman of the China Photojournalists Society, said in the face of big disasters, photojournalists throw themselves to the front lines, no matter what they face is visible gunfire or invisible virus. The album is compiled by China Daily and published by China Pictorial Press. Scan the following QR code or click on the following link to buy the album. httpsk.ruyu.comibHwrP ? Community workers check temperature for residents at Sanyanqiao Street, Wuhan, Hubei province, on Feb , . Photo by Zhan SongFor China Daily A patient surnamed Zhu who has recovered from his infection of the novel coronavirus sees for the first time how the doctors and nurses look like in Wuhan, Hubei province, on March , . The doctors and nurses from the Second Xiangya Hospital of Central South University in Changsha, capital city of Central Chinas Hunan province, left for home that day. Photo by Li GeFor China Daily People observe social distancing for a free haircut at a residential estate in Wanning city, Hainan province, on Febr , . This day on Chinese lunar calendar is traditionally a day people get their hair cut after Spring Festival. Photo by Liu ZhankunFor China Daily Pulling vegetables into a home in a community in Chaoyang District, Beijing, on Feb , . Photo by Wang WenyangFor China Daily Patients infected with the novel coronavirus are sent to Wuhan Huoshenshan Hospital on Feb, . It was the first day that the newlybuilt hospital started to receive patients. Photo by Xiao YijiuFor China Daily A look inside Wuhan Sports Center, which was transformed into a makeshift hospital to treat novel coronavirus patients, in Wuhan, Hubei province, on?Feb , . Photo by Xiao YijiuFor China Daily A Yun transport plane sends PLA medical workers to Wuhan Tianhe International Airport, Wuhan, Hubei province, on Feb , . Photo by Wei LaiFor China Daily Dancers of the Shanghai Ballet in Shanghai on March , . Photo by Tang YanjunFor China Daily A boy plays on a scooter in front of Wumen Gate of the Forbidden City in Beijing on Feb , . Photo by Lu ShiyueFor China Daily A glimpse of the Intensive Care Unit in Wuhan Pulmonary Hospital, Wuhan, Central Chinas Hubei province, on Feb , . Photo by Hu DongdongFor China Daily Two children wearing selfmade fullface masks wait for boarding a plane at Shenyang Taoxian International Airport, Liaoning province, on Feb , . Photo by Chen SongChina Daily Workers disinfect a street in Beijings walled city Wanping in Fengtai District on March , . Photo by Cui JunFor China Daily