Europe prepares to ease lockdown restrictions
2020/4/30 10:39
Italian Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte pushes a button with his elbow during a ceremony to mark the completion of a highway bridge, in Genoa, Italy, on Tuesday. The completion is hailed as a symbolic show of unity and hope amid the coronavirus emergency. FABIO FERRARLAPRESSEASSOCIATED PRESS Spain announced on Tuesday a fourphase plan to lift one of Europes toughest lockdowns to contain the COVID outbreak, aiming to return the country to normality by the end of June. Prime Minister Pedro Sanchez said the lifting of the curbs that have halted public life since March , will begin on May , and vary from province to province. In the initial phase, hairdressers and other businesses that operate via appointment will open, while restaurants will be able to offer takeaway services. In the next stage, envisaged to begin on May  for most of Spain, bars will reopen their terraces but will be limited to a third of their capacity. From this point, healthy people with no underlying medical conditions will be allowed to socialize together in small groups, while family members will be permitted to attend funerals. Spain had reported , cases and , deaths by Wednesday, the health ministry said. Across Europe, the virus infected ,, people and claimed , lives as of Wednesday, according to the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control. The French National Assembly, the lower house of Parliament, also on Tuesday evening greenlighted the governments plan to ease its lockdown, starting from May . The plan, announced by Prime Minister Edouard Philippe earlier on Tuesday, said that the strict lockdown measures imposed since March  would gradually be lifted if indicators in sanitary situations in the next two weeks continue to be good enough. To avoid a second wave of outbreak, the government also pledged enough masks for all people, and at least , tests per week from May . Kindergartens and primary schools will reopen on May  on a voluntary basis. But they can receive no more than  children per group, with priority given to children of health workers. The virus had infected , people and killed , in France by Tuesday, the health ministry said. In Italy, the country will start with the manufacturing, construction, and wholesale sectors, which will be followed by retailers, museums, galleries, and libraries on May , and bars, restaurants, hairdressers and beauty salons on June . In the United Kingdom, the total death toll in hospitals reached ,, Health Secretary Matt Hancock said on Tuesday. Tribute for health workers The UK held a minutes silence at  am on Tuesday for all frontline workers who have died from the virus, as the government is ramping up its testing efforts. British Prime Minister Boris Johnson, who has just recovered from COVID, announced on Wednesday his partner Carrie Symonds gave birth to a healthy baby boy at a hospital in London. Russian President Vladimir Putin on Tuesday extended the national paid dayoff introduced to contain COVID to May . Putin said in a televised address that the situation in Russia remains very tense and the country has not passed its coronavirus peak yet. Russia reported , new cases in the latest hour period, taking total infections to , on Wednesday, according to health authorities. Its death toll stood at . Ren Qi in Moscow, Xinhua and agencies contributed to this story.