Extending a helping hand
2020/4/30 5:19
File photo an N mask.  A New York salesman who allegedly hoarded vital personal protective equipment and sold it at hugely inflated prices amid the coronavirus outbreak has become the first person in the nation to face charges under the Defense Production Act. Amardeep Singh, , could face up to a year in prison for allegedly stockpiling and reselling surgical gowns, respirators, hand sanitizer and other goods at a warehouse in Long Island, according to the US attorneys office in Brooklyn. It comes as the nations doctors and nurses say theyve struggled to have enough equipment to keep them safe while fighting COVID. Singh sold , threeply disposable facemasks that he bought for  cents each for  each to the New York Foundation for Senior Citizens, a nonprofit that helps the elderly. He also sold items to the Association to Benefit children. US Attorney Richard Donoghue said in a press release Singhs amassing of critical personal protective equipment during a public health crisis and reselling at huge markups places him squarely in the crosshairs of law enforcement armed with the Defense Production Act. The Defense Production Act of  was created at the start of the Korean War. President Donald Trump enacted it again on March  amid the COVID outbreak. The law prohibits anyone from obtaining scarce medical supplies to hoard or sell at excessive prices. It also gives the federal government the power to order a business or factory to produce goods in a crisis. Singh, who ran a clothing store in Plainview, New York, allegedly hoarded  shipments of surgical gowns weighing . tons and . tons of disposable facemasks  which have been in short supply among medical professionals. The court documents added that Singh bought . tons of hand sanitizer for . per  ounces and . per  ounces. However, he increased the price to . for  ounces and . for  ounces. He also bought digital thermometers at . each and sold them for double the price. The court documents describe his price gouging as unconscionably excessive prices. Bradley Gerstman, Singhs attorney, said that his clients goods had been seized and added he had done nothing wrong as hed donated some of the goods to fire stations. The US has ,, confirmed cases of COVID and , deaths as of Tuesday. Worldwide, there are ,, confirmed cases and , deaths. In February and March at the start of the outbreak in the US and in countries like England, Spain and France, consumers rushed out to buy and stockpile toilet tissue, water and food. Some, including Singh, hoarded items for sale online. Chris Anderson, from central Pennsylvania told The New York Times that he and a friend drove around Ohio buying about , facemasks from shops. He bought packs of  masks for  each and resold them for  to . He estimated that he made a , profit. But weeks later, several of the largest American retail websites including Amazon, eBay and Walmart, prohibited the sale of hand sanitizer, facemasks and wipes from sellers, like Anderson, who wanted to make excessive profits. After Amazon banned the sale of his goods, Anderson said he was left with  packs of antibacterial wipes that he bought for  and had planned to sell for . Matt Colvin, , from Chattanooga Tennessee also hoarded , bottles of hand sanitizer to sell on Amazon in March. But the online retail site banned him from selling them on their website. Colvin said that after the first US COVID death was announced he and his brother drove locally and into Kentucky in March to buy all the hand sanitizer they could obtain. They then listed it on Amazon for  each. Amazon removed his listings. Price gouging is a clear violation of our policies, unethical, and in some areas, illegal, Amazon said in a statement. The online giant warned them and other sellers that they could lose their accounts if they tried to list again. eBay has also banned all sales of these vital goods amid COVID. Colvin and his brother underwent an investigation by Tennessees attorney general last month as price gouging is prohibited in the state of Tennessee. On March , they cooperated and surrendered all of their supplies to a Tennessee nonprofit organization and officials in Kentucky. Its been a huge amount of whiplash, Colvin told The New York Times about the backlash to his actions. Tennessee Attorney General Herbert Slatery III said Disrupting necessary supplies during an unprecedented pandemic is a serious offense. It became clear during our investigation that the Colvins realized this, and their prompt cooperation and donation led to an outcome that actually benefited some consumers.