Medical workers compare COVID response favorably to SARS
2020/4/29 17:31
A recovering pneumonia patient gives a thumbsup to medical workers at Wuhan Universitys Zhongnan Hospital on Thursday. GAO XIANGFOR CHINA DAILY Medical workers who have assisted in the fight against coronavirus outbreak in Wuhan, the hardesthit city, said protective and treatment measures are greatly improved compared with the outbreak of severe acute respiratory syndrome SARS in . We have eight staff members that joined the fight against SARS and said medical workers are protected much better than  years ago, Xu Xiaomao, vice director of Beijing Hospitals respiratory and critical care department, said at a news conference. He said there were no N or surgical masks at the time, and their clothes could be clearly seen through their protective suits. We fought the virus wearing cotton masks back then. Medical facilities applied to treatment were also much more advanced, for example, the ECMO  the best life support machine so far, he said. I remember when we were in Wuhan, around March , there was a yearold patient in critical condition. He was rescued thanks to application of ECMO. Also, we have more antiviral medicines and medicines for nutrition support and improving immunity, which can help raise the capability of treating patients, he said. According to him, COVID is greatly different from SARS. There were , confirmed cases with a fatality rate of . percent, while COVID has caused over , cases and its death rate is about . percent, he said. Also, the coronavirus brings effects to various organs not limited to lungs, including heart, nervous system or even genitourinary. But thankfully, we didnt use high doses of hormones to treat patients like we did in , which reduced side effects, he said. He said he was impressed by the governments quick response to the epidemic. We did face difficulties at the very beginning as lots of patients flocked to hospitals, making medical resources scarce, he said. But then we had Leishenshan and Huoshenshan hospitals, and also the makeshift hospitals, to relieve pressure. I felt touched when I saw the city with  million people so quiet, and also proud of being a medical worker joining the fight.