Big data How will Chinese spend Labor Day holiday amid COVID?
2020/4/29 17:25
How would you spend your  Labor Day holiday under COVID outbreak? This year marks the first fiveday Labor Day holiday since  when the once golden week was cut to three days. And based on big data, many people already have their holiday planned. Statistics from Ctrip.com, a major online travel platform, show the coming holiday, from May  to , is expected to see a traffic surge of  percent over the same period in April. Pictured, from left, are searches for air tickets on April  versus April .?Source youth.cn Elong.com, an online travel platform, said online searches for air tickets between April  and May  surged, with searches for air tickets on April  nearly tripling those for April , and those for May  topping other days. Pictured, clockwise from left, are graphics showing searches for hotel bookings up . times, bookings at guesthouses in Qinhuangdao up . times, the BeijingTianjin route as the most searched one, and searches for train tickets in BeijingTianjinHebei region up . Source www.bjd.com.cn Data from the travel platform Qunar.com published on April  also showed searches for May Day holiday hotel bookings increased . times between April  C  from a week earlier, after news was released that ones health status would be mutually recognized in the BeijingTianjinHebei region. Searches for train tickets in the BeijingTianjinHebei region rose by  percent, with BeijingTianjin travel the hottest route. And bookings for hotels in Qinhuangdao jumped . times. Visitors wearing masks climb the Badaling section of the Great Wall in Beijing, on March , . Photo by Wei Xiaohaochinadaily.com.cn Ctrip.com said in its report that  scenic spots are poised to become the most soughtafter getaways in the Labor Day holiday the Bell Tower of Xian, Emperor Qinshihuangs Mausoleum Site Museum, Presidential Palace, Leshan Giant Buddha, Taierzhuang Ancient Town, Humble Administrators Garden, Badaling Section of the Great Wall, Dujiangyan Irrigation System, Tang Paradise and Huqiu. The online travel platform Lvmama.com said travel packages such as those for two days and one night or three days and two nights, including hotel and meals, are quite popular. And  percent of its users chose scenic spots or rural parks to spend their holiday time. Given the outbreak of COVID, some scenic spots have reopened to the public while many others have not. Scenic spots in the country have carried out control measures in concert with the notice jointly issued by the Ministry of Cultural and Tourism and the National Health Commission on April , requiring scenic spots to suspend opening indoor areas and to control the number of tourists to below  percent of maximum capacity. In Beijing,  rated scenic spots had opened to the public as of April , including the Mutianyu Section of the Great Wall, Badaling Section of the Great Wall and Yanqi Lake. And  rated spots are still closed. In Hubei,  of its  Alevel scenic areas had reopened as of April . Most are natural scenic spots or in outdoor areas. A view of Huangshan Mountain after snowy weather in East Chinas Anhui province, Feb , . Photo by Shi GuangdeAsianewsphoto Shanghai said some of its scenic spots will remain closed during the holiday, including the Oriental Pearl Radio  TV Tower, Shanghai Historical Development Exhibition Hall and the Sightseeing hall of Jinmao Tower. In Shenzhen, the Overseas Chinese Town East has reopened since March , but has delayed its daily opening time to  am and shut down indoor areas. Of note, its Grand Canyon Park has only received up to , tourists a day. Although it is open, the Safari Park Shenzhen is not allowed to receive visitors without a prior booking. Outdoor facilities in Xiaomeisha Resort have opened to the public while its indoor area stays closed. In Shandongs Jinan,  or over half of the Alevel scenic spots including the Best Spring in the World, have resumed operation but they do not receive tour groups from outside Shandong province. In Anhui province, the management committee of the Huangshan Scenic Area announced on its website on April  that the North Gate to the spot will reopen from April . It allows up to , tourist visits in a day. Tour groups of more than  people are forbidden. During COVID outbreak, online touring has become another option for travel. Services on social livestreaming platforms such as cloud exhibitions, cloud scenic spots or cloud touring offer new travel experiences at home. Several thousand commercial entities on Alibabas travel portal Feizhu have put up touring livestreams. Every day during the epidemic, the app has seen over  livestreams. The Palace Museum also launched its virtual panoramic tour on the app. The Gate of Supreme Harmony Taihemen at the Palace Museum in Beijing.  Sina Weibo account of the Palace Museum Expert suggestions for travel Li Lanjuan, member of the senior expert group of the National Health Commission, said During the global pandemic, traveling in China is nevertheless the safest option. The public is OK to go sightseeing at places which are not so crowded. Zhang Wenhong, director of the infectious disease department of Huashan Hospital, suggested the public should bring their own food when going out, so that they may avoid dining with many other people in shared spaces. Wang Guangfa, member of the expert group of the National Health Commission, said the public is not advised to visit one place on a large scale, a move to avoid the concentration of people. He also suggests wearing a mask during travel and washing hands when coming back home. Wu Zunyou, chief epidemiological expert at the Chinese Center for Disease Control and Prevention, deemed gatherings should be carefully avoided even though there is a generally low risk of exposure to COVID in the living environment in China. The Ministry of Culture and Tourism also called for the public to seriously consider individual protection and check ones body temperature at scenic spots. One should immediately inform employees at a scenic spot if feeling unwell.