Visitor restrictions at tourist sites
2020/4/29 17:09
Kenjebaev Murodjon far right pauses for a group photo with Chinese medical staff. Photo provided to chinadaily.com.cn The coronavirus is the common enemy of all people in the world, which is why Kenjebaev Murodjon of Uzbekistan says he can and should do all he can to fight it. Murodjon has worked as an interpreter for a Chinese medical team to Uzbekistan since midApril. When he learned at the end of March that China would send a team to his country to help fight COVID, he immediately telephoned the Chinese embassy in Uzbekistan and the local health department to express his desire to volunteer as an interpreter. Murodjon arrived in Tashkent from his hometown, located about  kilometers away from Uzbekistans capital, to join the Chinese team after his application was approved by both sides. He then wore his Westernstyle suits and carried his belongings to do translation work at conferences and in hospitals. His job is to help Chinese experts communicate with local medical experts, doctors and patients in different cities in Uzbekistan. The person Chinese medical team arrived in Uzbekistan on April  at the invitation of the Uzbek government. It was my second time wearing my Westernstyle suits. The first time was last year when I got married, he said. Kenjebaev Murodjon right travels to his next translation job. Photo provided to chinadaily.com.cn Its appropriate attire The Chinese experts are professional, patient and responsible and take patients seriously, he said. Sometimes, Murodjon had to work more than  hours a day. But the sense of excitement and honor in fighting COVID helped me get past all fatigue, he said. The special work experience as an interpreter for the Chinese medical team has been unforgettable. Murodjon, who is an international student at Guangdong University of Foreign Studies, is now a soninlaw in Guangdong province after marrying his sweetheart, surnamed Li, from Shenzhen, Guangdong province. She was Murodjons classmate at the university. They met and fell in love on campus. Li said her husband attaches great importance to the work as an interpreter for the Chinese medical team. Murodjon has spent a lot of time studying COVID and getting familiar with relevant wording, she said. Murodjon, who has studied and lived in Guangzhou, Guangdong, for six years said he loved both China and his home country, Uzbekistan. In February, he twice purchased more than , medical masks at his own expense and brought them to Guangzhou by plane for his teachers and fellow students at a time when the country was hardhit by COVID.