Didi Chuxing helps combat pandemic in overseas countries
2020/4/29 10:40
Medical staff dance in front of the Pasteur Hospital as part of a daily tribute to health workers in Nice, France, on Monday. VALERY HACHEAGENCE FRANCEPRESSE BERLIN  Germanys restaurant sector may need a rescue fund if the lockdown due to the COVID pandemic lasts longer than expected, the countrys Economy Minister Peter Altmaier said on Tuesday. The government has already made loans and a shorttime work scheme available to the sector and leaders of Chancellor Angela Merkels coalition have agreed to reduce sales tax on meals to  percent for a year, Altmaier said. As economy minister, I am saying if, contrary to expectations, it the lockdown lasts a long time until a full opening is possible, we will have to reconsider aid. Then we would need something like a rescue fund for gastronomy, he told ZDF television. The pandemic had infected , people in Germany and claimed , lives as of Tuesday, according to the Robert Koch Institute, a federal disease control agency. A total of . million face masks were flown from China to Germany on Monday by Bundeswehr, the German Federal Armed Forces. The Bundeswehr was planning to transport a total of  million urgently needed face masks to the country, German Minister of Defense Annegret KrampKarrenbauer announced on Twitter. Theses masks would be distributed across Germanys states, as in most German states, face masks or an equivalent mouthandnose cover became mandatory on Monday when people travel by bus or train or go shopping. Across Europe, the novel coronavirus had infected ,, people and killed , as of Tuesday, according to the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control. Lowest daytoday rise But hardhit Italy registered its lowest daytoday increase in new cases since the first day the nation was put under lockdown. According to the Italian health ministry, , new cases were confirmed in the hour period ending Monday evening. Italy had reported , cases and , deaths as of Monday. In the United Kingdom, a further  people died in hospitals, Health Secretary Matt Hancock said on Monday, taking the total death toll to ,. The British government on Monday announced a new fasttrack finance scheme providing loans with a  percent governmentbacked guarantee for small businesses. Under the loan scheme small businesses can apply for Bounce Back Loans up to a maximum of , pounds ,, or  percent of turnover, with the government paying the interest for the first  months. In Portugal, the authorities may soon ease its lockdown, but widespread use of protective equipment will be essential and the country does not rule out taking a step back if the situation worsens, Prime Minister Antonio Costa said on Monday. During a visit to one of the hundreds of textile firms reorienting to produce protective gear, he said face masks would likely be obligatory in certain locations such as schools and public transport. Portugal had reported , cases and  deaths as of Monday, according to health authorities. In France, the death toll crossed , on Monday, according to health authorities. French Prime Minister Edouard Philippe was scheduled to reveal on Tuesday how the country planned on May  to lift its sixweek lockdown, with cafes set to stay shut but schools being allowed to reopen. Xinhua  Agencies