Spring snow befalls Yajiang Valley, Tibet
2020/4/29 9:06
Boston Bruins forward David Pastrnak  scores against Vancouver Canucks goaltender Jacob Markstrom  during the first period at Rogers Arena in Vancouver on Feb , .  Keeping reflexes razorsharp a huge challenge for NHL goalies Outside of serving as a sparring partner for worldclass heavyweight boxers, being a goaltender in the National Hockey League is probably the most physically demanding job in pro sports. Encased in more than  pounds of protective gear, NHL goalies must combine superb handeye coordination, deft footwork and steely concentration in order to defend their xfoot net against incoming shots that routinely reach  mph, while fending off opposing players who crash the crease at breakneck speed. The pucka xinch disc of vulcanized rubber weighing  ouncesis harder than a golf ball and when fired at top speed can inflict serious wounds, but the men behind the masks rarely flinch when shooters are bearing down on them. Unable to practice or even have access to ice since the coronavirus outbreak shut down the NHL season on March , how are the worlds top goalies maintaining their edge? No ones been through this before, Connor Hellebuyck of the Winnipeg Jets told Canadian Press this week. Theres really no book on what to do, no right way. Im not able to strap on the pads, and thats the most important part about being dialed in as a goalie, getting a feel and really getting the workload. Going for a run isnt going to keep me in goaltender shape. Its definitely a challenge not to be able to go on the ice. In times like this, its all about trying to be creative. ? Toronto Maple Leafs goalie Frederik Andersen is keeping in shape by squaring off with housemate and teammate Auston Matthews.  Jacob Markstrom of the Vancouver Canucks has taken to facing a tennisball machine set at maximum to keep his reflexes sharp, while Joonas Korpisalo of the Columbus Blue Jackets kicks golf balls against his garage door to do the trick. Were doing our best and working a lot on handeye, Markstrom said. Not letting your eyes fall asleep is maybe the biggest thing. Toronto Maple Leafs goalie Frederik Andersen has a distinct advantage over his rivals Hes living with teammate and goal shooter Auston Matthews during the shutdown and the two regularly square off against each other. Hellebuyck and a handful of other members of the goaltending fraternity, including Devan Dubnyk of the Minnesota Wild and James Reimer of the Carolina Hurricanes, have turned to specialist trainer Adam Francilia for customized programs. In some cases they have really great home gyms at their disposal, Francilia said. And then theres guys living in a condo with nothing... but I have enough stuff in my repertoire that they only need their body weight to train. Every goalie has little bits and pieces they can always work on, whether its related to a past injury or some imbalances or biomechanical hiccups that you never get to during the season. The only limitation is knowledge and creativity. Ottawa Senators netminder Craig Anderson, who turns  next month, told Canadian Press theres also a mental battle in preparing for the resumption of a season that may or may not arrive. You just have to force yourself through it ... it comes down to a mindset, Anderson said. Its too early to tell which way this things going to go. You just want to make sure youre ready at any given moment. You need to keep your mental focus on actually playing hockey even though you cant be on the ice. The monotony of selfisolation remains the biggest hurdle. At the end of the day, it doesnt matter if theyre training to return, Francilia said. I tell the guys to think about this as exercising because you want to be a healthy individual. Try to widen your world view. At the same time, theyre so used to competing and becoming singleminded in their focus. I encourage them to also get excited. This is an opportunity in an otherwise pretty uneventful day to create that competitive moment.