Calls for unity as attempts to politicize pandemic condemned
2020/4/29 8:53
Commuters wearing protective face masks make their way along a suburban train platform as they arrive at at the Gare du Nord RER station in Paris during a lockdown imposed to slow the rate of the coronavirus disease COVID in France, April , .  PARIS  The French National Assembly, the lower house of Parliament, on Tuesday evening adopted the governments plan to cautiously and progressively ease anticoronavirus lockdown starting May . Of the  votes cast,  approved the plan while  voted against and  deputies abstained. Under the governments plan announced by Prime Minister Edouard Philippe earlier in the afternoon, the strict lockdown measures imposed since March  will be gradually lifted if indicators in sanitary situations in the next two weeks continue to be good enough. To inject life back into economic activities without prompting a second wave of virus outbreak, the government pledged enough masks for all French and at least , virological tests per week from May . Any person testing positive will have to respect a day isolation, either at home or in a place indicated by the authorities. Those having contact with the person will also be identified, tested and asked to stay confined to avoid infecting others. Kindergartens and primary schools will reopen on May  on a voluntary basis. They can receive no more than ten kids per group, with priority given to children of health workers. Secondary schools will gradually reopen from May . Maskwearing will be compulsory and no more than  students could be present in the classroom at any one time. When lockdown eased, companies should maintain working from home when possible, or provide workers with masks and ensure distancing at workplaces. All businesses, except bars, cafes and restaurants, are allowed to reopen. Maskwearing will be compulsory in all public transport. People can move freely outside without paperwork justifying their activities. Gatherings of more than ten people will remain banned. When presenting the lockdown exit plan, the prime minister stressed that the lockdown will not be lifted on May  if indicators are not as good as expected by that day. As of Tuesday, Frances coronavirus deaths reached ,, an increase of  in the past  hours. Up to , people are being hospitalized. Among them, , are in intensive care, according to the latest data from the Health Ministry.