Visitor restrictions at tourist sites
2020/4/29 6:30
Editors note In order to reduce the risks of cross infections in crowded places, notices have been issued at several major scenic spots across China based on the requirements by the government in the prevention and control of the novel coronavirus. The Gate of Supreme Harmony Taihemen at the Palace Museum in Beijing.  Sina Weibo account of the Palace Museum The Palace Museum, Beijing The Palace Museum has been closed since Jan , the first day of Chinese New Year. The museum has refunded the ticket fees to those who had reserved online. The reopening date has not yet been decided and it will be closed until further notice. A view of Huangshan Mountain after the snowy weather in East Chinas Anhui province, Feb , . Photo by Shi GuangdeAsianewsphoto Huangshan Mountain Scenic Area, Anhui province From April , the number of people allowed to enter the scenic area has been reduced to , per day   percent of its maximum capacity. Tourists need to purchase tickets online with their real names, and will need to show the etickets upon entry. Tourists must also apply for health certificates online and scan a QR code for verification before entering the scenic spot. Each tourist group should have no more than  people. Visitors appreciate terracotta warriors at?Museum of the Terracotta Warriors and Horses of Qin Shihuang, Xian, Shaanxi province, on March , .  Museum of the Terracotta Warriors and Horses of Qin Shihuang, Xian, Shaanxi province The museum started allowing entry to individual tourists on March  and tourist groups are still not allowed. Ticket booths at the museum are closed and only online reservations are accepted. Visitors can order tickets through its website or at its official WeChat account. The maximum number of visitors at the museum should not exceed , daily and temporary closure measures should be enforced when the number of tourists exceeds the limit. Tourists need to verify their identity and health information by scanning a QR code made by the municipal government and need to have their temperatures taken before entering the museum. Visitors must keep a distance of more than . meters from each other. Tour guide services are suspended, but a selfservice guide on its WeChat account is available. Visitors wearing masks climb the Badaling section of the Great Wall in Beijing, on March , . Photo by Wei Xiaohaochinadaily.com.cn The Great Wall at Badaling, Beijing Starting from March , the Badaling Great Wall is partially open with areas such as the Great Wall at Shuiguan, Ancient Great Wall and the Great Wall of China Museum temporarily closed. Visitors can reserve tickets using their real names on its official WeChat account or on its website. The scenic spot will only allow visitors in at  percent of its full capacity to ensure the health and safety of tourists. ID cards and health certifications will be verified at the entrance. Visitors are strictly forbidden to gather together and distances of more than  meter apart from one another must be kept at all times. Stunning scenery in Jiuzhaigou National Park, Southwest Chinas Sichuan province, on Nov , .  Jiuzhaigou National Park, the Aba Tibetan and Qiang autonomous prefecture, Sichuan province The national park reopened on March  and allows entry to both individual tourists and tour groups. Tourists who have recent travel history outside of China are not allowed to enter the site. Only Shuzheng valley, Rize valley and Zechawa valley are open, with a daily visitor limit at ,. Visitors should also be divided into different groups to enter the scenic area at different time periods. Online reservations and ID cards are required for entry into the park. Medical workers and one of their family members can get free tickets at any time during the next  months from March , excluding Labor Day and National Day holidays.