Top executives weigh in at CIIE III
2021/11/10 6:40
Editors note The fourth China International Import Expo in Shanghai, which runs from Friday through Wednesday, is drawing attention from around the globe. The expo is expected to play a vital role in boosting world economic recovery amid COVID. China Daily talked to business executives of participating multinational corporations for their thoughts about this years event, and the opportunities they are ready to embrace. Q How many times has your company participated in the annual CIIE that began in ? Why does the company take part in the CIIE? Whats your expectation this time? Q In the context of the ongoing world economic recovery, do you think the CIIE has any added significance? Q China has been striving to increase imports and the countrys contribution to global economic recovery has been substantial. Please comment. Q What prospects does your industry have in the China market? Also, what are the prospects for Chinas consumer market, going forward? Q There is a widely held view that business environment in China has improved tremendously in recent times. Are you confident it will continue to improve as the country vigorously rolls out higherlevel openingup? If yes, please elaborate. Q Whats your view on Chinas current level of openingup? What contribution has China made to the world by continuously opening up its markets and economy to foreign investors and companies? Q What else can China do to ensure higherlevel opening up proves even more effective in the future? Q Compared with some other countries, how does Chinas firm support for free trade and multilateralism fare? Robert Aspell, president of Cargill Asia Pacific. Photo provided to chinadaily.com.cn A Cargill is proud and excited to participate in the CIIE for the fourth consecutive year. The event provides a great platform for companies to not only interact with each other, but also to better understand the market, and strengthen ties with key customers and partners, as well as enhance communication with key stakeholders. Over the past three years CIIEs, Cargill has signed a total of over  billion in partnership agreements. A Much of the CIIE is about driving global trade and global connections, which are critical for the food and agriculture industries. Cargill believes that farmers, businesses, and consumers alike benefit when market barriers are reduced, and food can move from where it is grown to where it is needed. In my view, CIIE participation has enhanced the capability of exhibitors to innovate. Enterprises are able to get broad consumer insights from the CIIE, which then can facilitate the innovations. Also, importantly, exhibitors are able to connect with many of the stakeholders during the CIIE, including the government, customers, partners, and different organizations, to exchange views on important agendas and hence collectively drive the sustainable development of the whole industry. A As the secondlargest economy in the world and a critical part of the global supply chain, China has made great contributions to the world recovery. And the Chinese economy is leading the recovery in many aspects. Chinas economy is witnessing a continuous and steady recovery, with Chinas GDP increasing . percent yearonyear to . trillion yuan . trillion in the JanuarySeptember period, according to data from the National Bureau of Statistics. We can feel the strong momentum of recovery from our customers and consumers in China. We have also observed a lot of new demands in the market, like the pursuit of healthy food, for which we are also actively developing and launching new products. A Cargill brings global and local expertise together to innovate for Chinese customers and consumers, providing valuable solutions to our customers, helping people enjoy nutritious food, rich flavors, and a healthier lifestyle, and continuously improving their experience. Innovations in Cargill China are taking place in many areas, from finding new ingredients to new menus and flavors, from insights to solutions. A In the food and agriculture sector, foreign investments are now an integral part of the whole industry. For example, thanks to the maturity and professionalism of Chinas exchanges, the industry has access to worldclass risk management tools which have accelerated the food and agricultural sectors development. At Cargill, this has helped us develop across all the key segments we operate in globally. The policy on accelerating innovation has been helpful for us. Working closely with our customers, we opened an innovation center in Shanghai, and have a proud and capable team there developing food solutions for our customers. A China is an integral part of the global economy and is deeply connected with the world in almost all industries. China is the worlds secondlargest economy, the secondlargest consumer market, and the largest trader of goods, and the utilization of foreign investment steadily ranks among the top in the world. China has contributed significantly to both promoting the construction of an open world economy and driving world economic growth. China contributes to economic globalization through its openness. China has continuously laid out measures to expand its openness, creating beneficial conditions and making contributions to the construction of an open economy. Chinas economic growth has significantly contributed to world economic growth. Its contribution to world economic growth is among the highest in the world, and it also plays a prominent role in supporting the stable development of the world economy and driving economic recovery through trade. A It has been  years since Cargill entered the China market in . Cargill has witnessed great changes in the foreign investment and business environment in China during this period. In recent years, China has continued to promote innovation and openness, attaching importance to the development of foreignfunded enterprises in China, launching a series of policies to encourage the development of foreign investment, and passing the Foreign Investment Law to expand the openness, which has created a favorable investment environment for foreign enterprises like Cargill. A China aims to open up at a higher level and accelerate the establishment of a dualcirculation development pattern, in which the domestic economic cycle plays a leading role while the international economic cycle remains its extension and supplement. We believe Cargill can contribute to this new development pattern. Within this new pattern, China needs to enhance effective supply, expand market demand and strive to achieve a dynamic balance between supply and demand. Cargill is further expanding production in China, investing in new plants and projects covering animal nutrition, food ingredients and animal proteins. The new pattern also means that China will be deeply integrated into the global supply chains. Cargill has always supported inclusive trade policies and the strengthening of global supply chains. Cargill takes advantage of the global supply chain and actively uses platforms such as the CIIE to promote trade and exchange between China and the world in the agriculture and food sectors. Arnaud Ribadeau Dumas, president of EssilorLuxottica Greater China. Photo provided to chinadaily.com.cn A We are an old friend of the CIIE, having attended the grand event every year since it started. This year, we are proudly bearing the new name EssilorLuxottica, following the recent merger of Essilor and Luxottica. Our past experiences with the CIIE have proven it to be an excellent platform for us to raise public awareness surrounding vision health, showcase our latest advancements in vision solutions, as well as open up many business opportunities. EssilorLuxottica is committed to bringing good vision and good style to all and the CIIE is a way to promote common prosperity by showcasing innovations that can serve everyones access to good vision. A Chinas hosting of the CIIE underlines the countrys steadfast commitment to further open up its economy and promote economic globalization in a safe and productive way. In the postpandemic era, the fourth CIIE reinforces the worlds confidence in rebuilding trust and economic recovery by setting a stage for global engagement and economic collaboration  sharing opportunities with the world to promote the world. A In this postpandemic era, global economic collaboration faces many challenges. As one of the largest economies in the world, China is taking the lead to foster a new domestic development paradigm, which provides a new solution for global economic collaboration. In this new paradigm, domestic circulation will work as the mainstay while domestic and international circulations reinforce each other, lending strong impetus to global economic collaboration. A We see substantial potential in Chinas eye care and eyewear industry, thanks to higher levels of awareness about vision care and the changing lifestyles of Chinese consumers. Our product offerings cover a wide range of categories that enhance peoples vision, such as blue cut, antifatigue, progressive and photochromic. In particular, we remain firmly committed to developing total solutions in tackling myopia in China, an issue affecting more than half of the countrys preschoolers and young students, with the debut of two more powerful additions to our child myopia management family at the fourth CIIE. A Chinas openingup has never stopped. In the past few years, we have seen the tremendous efforts made by the Chinese government in optimizing the nations business environment for global investors, including the implementation of the Foreign Investment Law and the further shortening of its negative list for foreign investment. This is super inspiring for multinationals like us, and we foresee more exciting opportunities here. Though the regional integration is still in progress, we cannot wait to make our presence felt at this years CIIE to show our longterm commitment to the China market as a unified company. A As a foreign company rooted in China for many years, weve witnessed the tremendous efforts made by the Chinese government at all levels in openingup. Today, we see a vibrant, resilient Chinese market that presents the world a new paradigm in highquality reform and openingup, takes the lead in driving the global economic recovery and reinforces the confidence among all multinational corporations. A EssilorLuxottica strives to accelerate the pace at which we bring cuttingedge innovations to the Chinese market and advance the development of a more robust vision industry. In recent years, we have seen steady regulatory progress being made by the government in encouraging more innovative medical devices to enter the market at a faster pace. Looking ahead, we hope to work with our ecosystem partners to achieve better synergy with ISO International Standards Organization certification and improve accessibility of innovative optical and ophthalmic technologies, so as to provide better vision care experiences for both Chinese consumers and eyecare professionals. A The hosting of the CIIE demonstrates Chinas consistent position in supporting the multilateral trading system and promoting free trade. It showcases Chinas strong determination toward highlevel openingup and the willingness to share its opportunities with the rest of the world. Having attended the CIIE for the past three years, we have significantly raised public awareness surrounding vision health, especially myopia, a pressing issue affecting more than half of Chinas preschoolers and young students. The platform also opened the door to many great business opportunities for our company. Tetsuro Homma, executive vicepresident of Panasonic. Photo provided to chinadaily.com.cn A Panasonic has participated in the exhibition for four consecutive years. Panasonic positions the CIIE as a global strategic exhibition and spends more than half a year each time preparing for this expo actively. We hope to use the CIIE platform to strengthen indepth exchanges with local governments or enterprises, understand the world from this window, and let the world understand Panasonic. A At present, the world economy is gradually recovering, and holding the CIIE manifests Chinas determination to open its door wider to the outside world. As the worlds first importthemed nationallevel expo, the CIIE has established a communication platform for exhibitors and merchants across the globe, and it will inject vitality into the market, and play a positive role in giving a further boost to the world economy. A The COVID pandemic has brought uncertainty to the global economy. The holding of fourth CIIE as scheduled and Chinas continued efforts to expand imports and openingup will play a positive role in promoting the recovery of the world economy. In addition, China has put forward the dualcirculation development paradigm, in which domestic circulation is the mainstay and the domestic and external markets reinforce each other. We believe the CIIE will become an important stage for promoting the dualcirculation development paradigm. A At the second CIIE in , Panasonic put forward two major business strategies, namely, elderly care and fresh food supply chain. We added the environmentrelated theme during this years CIIE. Chinas consumer market is huge and the CIIE will drive a new round of consumption demand. Panasonic will continue to launch products, and introduce technologies and solutions to improve the quality of life in accordance with the change of consumer demand. A With the implementation of the Foreign Investment Law and the dualcirculation development paradigm, Panasonic has truly felt that the business environment in the Chinese market has been continuously improved and optimized since the rollout of the reform and openingup policy, which has brought about more opportunities and development space for business operations. The resilience of Chinas economy under the pandemic is obvious. Now that the annual CIIE is being held as scheduled, we have full confidence in the Chinese market. A Chinas economy has entered a stage of highquality development. China continues to expand openingup and carry out international cooperation, allowing foreignfunded enterprises to gain broader market access and new development opportunities. Chinas market potential is constantly being tapped. The strong resilience of the Chinese economy, the huge space in the Chinese market, and Chinas higherlevel openingup have left us full of expectation. A Panasonic entered the Chinese market in  and can be said to be a witness to reform and openingup. China unswervingly expands its openingup, promotes highquality development, and will further improve the market environment based on transparency, equality, openness and fair competition. So, it will attract more foreignfunded enterprises, which will enter China and strive to find a firm foothold in the Chinese market. A China adheres to free trade and multilateralism, which has provided more opportunities for world economic growth. This year is the th year since China joined the WTO World Trade Organization. China has developed into the worlds secondlargest economy. While maintaining its status as a major manufacturing country, it has gradually transformed into a major consumption, engineering, and innovation country, with unparalleled superiority. Panasonic insists on taking root in China and takes advantage of Electronic World Trade Platform eWTP and the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership RCEP, not only striving for boosting domestic sales in China, but also actively promoting its exports to Asia. Jerome CottinBizonne, managing director, Pernod Ricard China. Photo provided to chinadaily.com.cn A We have been participating in the CIIE since its very first year and this is the fourth consecutive year that we present our strategic product portfolios and sustainable practices at this grand international economic and trade cooperation event. For Pernod Ricard, China is one of the most important markets and Chinese consumers demonstrate growing demand for, and interest in, foreign wines and spirits. We consider the CIIE as an increasingly vital platform for showcasing our fine products and expanding international collaboration. By participating in the CIIE, we would like to seize new opportunities under the accelerated market openingup and bring diversified products and experiences to Chinese consumers. A As the world is gradually learning to coexist with the pandemic, the CIIEs importance for supporting economic and trade recovery becomes more prominent. It has grown into a key channel for products worldwide to find their way into the Chinese market. China is one of the most promising markets with enormous needs and potential, which firmly contributes to the world economic recovery. For Pernod Ricard, our business got back on track in a short period of time, thanks to the fast recovery of the China market. In the past financial year, we have achieved a whopping growth of  percent in China. We will continue to invest in the market as we believe in the strong prospects of Chinas wines and spirits market. Moreover, the CIIE sets an example for supporting economic globalization and building an open world economy. It demonstrates Chinas commitment to promote higherlevel openingup, which continues to boost foreign companies confidence, including ours. A As one of the major economies in the world, I think China demonstrates its responsibility to share its development opportunities and create better business environment, thereby contributing to global economic recovery. We have been benefiting from the policy, which facilitates us to continuously bring in our diversified product portfolio to the China market. For example, at this years CIIE, Pernod Ricard China is introducing Church Road wines, an iconic collection of New Zealand wines, to Chinese consumers to fulfill their growing needs and discerning tastes, enabling consumers to celebrate convivial moments with friends and family. Under the favorable import policy, with one of the largest and most diverse product portfolios in the wines and spirits industry, we will continue to introduce our famed products to Chinese consumers. A In the past financial year, we have achieved a whopping growth of  percent in China hitting an important milestone, indicating that we have already gained trust and favor among many Chinese consumers. We believe in the future, the trend of Chinese consumers embracing more diversified categories of wines and spirits will only get stronger, especially among middleincome and younger generation. For Pernod Ricard, the market still has a lot of potential to be further explored. In China, consumers are increasingly looking for new experiences, new flavors, new products, and in particular in our industry for highquality wines and spirits. A With the enforcement of higherlevel openingup, we believe more related policies regarding improving business environment will be implemented, to make the China market even more appealing to the rest of the world. One example that perfectly demonstrates our confidence in the business environment of the China market would be Pernod Ricard Malt Whisky Distillery in Emeishan, Sichuan province. It is a longterm investment, not only referring to the  billion yuan  million investment in the coming decade, but also referring to the fact that we are building a new knowhow and a unique Chinese whisky culture over the years. A Chinas openingup initiative has been providing huge opportunities for foreign companies to explore the market. Favorable policies following the initiative enhance foreign companies confidence to deepen their investments in the Chinese market. We started in China around  years ago with a modest operation and today we have passed the symbolic threshold of the  billion euros . billion in net sales. The past fiscal year was recordsetting for us, while we believe we still have potential to grow further. With the implementation earlier this year of a historical agreement between China and the European Union covering close to  iconic European and Chinese agrifood names, I think it is a great contribution to the world by Chinas openingup policy. A As the worlds first importthemed nationallevel expo, the CIIE itself is a great demonstration of Chinas commitment to openingup initiatives. We have witnessed the launch and implementation of many favorable policies. For example, the Chinese government announced a series of policies for Pudongs openingup last year, which covered legislation, tax, talent, finance, free trade zone, etc, to strengthen Pudongs development and openingup. The Chinese government built the Hainan Free Trade Port with strong and comprehensive policies and implementation details and timeline. A As a committed supporter of global free trade, Chinas favorable initiatives for free trade have strengthened our confidence in the future of the China market and increased our willingness to continuously deepen our roots here. Looking ahead, Pernod Ricard will sustain its strong commitment and longterm investment in the China market, and further introduce our unique product portfolio with more consumercentric interactive engagements. Willie Tan, CEO of Skechers China, South Korea and Southeast Asia. Photo provided to chinadaily.com.cn A Skechers participated in the CIIE since , and it is the third time for us to join the expo this year. We are here because its the largest international exhibition in China, fully supported by the Chinese government. Here we can receive the latest development strategy of China, talk with Chinese consumers, government officials and other stakeholders and learn from our market friends in China. Regarding the expectation of the CIIE this year, we would like to show our new technology and new products to the Chinese market, meet more business partners in China and seek for new business development opportunities for the future. A China has played a crucial role in the global economy, and the CIIE is a demonstration of Chinas efforts to promote globalization and build an open world economy. Under the current circumstance, as a major importthemed expo in the world, the CIIE delivers the determination of the Chinese government to develop the economy, not only upgrading Chinas development, but also accelerating the global economy. A China has been the worlds secondlargest economy, and leads the global economy recovery from the global pandemic recession. The nation has an efficient government it adjusted the development strategy and came up with new concepts, including the dualcirculation development paradigm with thrust on highquality development. This reflects its commitment to the worlds common prosperity. There is a great business environment in China, and foreign enterprises have shown robust confidence in the Chinese market due to its market potential and bright future. A In China, there is a growing trend of people pursuing healthy lifestyles. The National Fitness Program released by the government offers a great opportunity for us. Chinese consumers are becoming more and more sophisticated. The young generation are living a healthy life. They love working out in gyms, outdoor trips, and travel. Young families would like to give quality stuff to their kids. And senior people connect to the world with the internet and mobile phones, and are aware of the new updates in the market. All this shows there are great business opportunities for Skechers in China. A Yes. Chinas business practices have improved significantly and the business environment today in China is generally favorable to international companies. China has made notable achievements in improving its business environment. Now, equal treatment is given to domestic and foreign enterprises. In order to optimize the business environment, China is transferring government functions, deepening the reform of streamlining administration, delegating powers and improving regulation and services. So, we are fully confident about the higherlevel openingup and highquality development. Facing the current downward economic pressure, China is moving on its path and higherlevel openingup is the right and best choice. After more than  years of reform and openingup, Chinas economy is ranked the second in the world, and its contribution to global economic growth has exceeded  percent, creating a Chinese miracle that attracts worldwide attention. A So far, the openingup policy is quite successful. The current level of openingup has led Chinas transformation from a poor and underdeveloped centrallyplanned economy into an economic powerhouse, increasingly driven by the market. As a result, China has become the worlds secondlargest economy. It brings business opportunity not only to local players, but also to foreign companies. During the past openingup period, we saw special economic zones and pilot free trade zones come up in China. It is a great innovation that allows reform policies to be tested before some of them are rolled out on a national scale. A China is a big country. The coastal areas will be the first to benefit from higherlevel openingup. This kind of development will likely follow in other areas in China, including western China and northeastern China. Those regions have huge potential to attract highquality global resources and boost local economy. China is expected to invest more on the cultivation of talent and fundamental infrastructure. The execution of higherlevel openingup needs lots of various professionals C and infrastructure is a basic need for locallevel economic development. Saravoot Yoovidhya, CEO of TCP Group. Photo provided to chinadaily.com.cn A This is the third time running that we participate in the fourth China International Import Expo. As a food and beverage major and the inventor and owners of the famous Red Bull brand, TCPs success in the market in China is in no small part thanks to the fantastic platform that the CIIE always provides for facilitating global trade and product debuts. The CIIE, in combination with Chinas openingup policies, has given even greater impetus for foreign companies to increase investment in China. A As TCPs top overseas market, China is integral to the success of our business globally. In  and , this has become even more apparent during what has proven to be some of the most challenging years faced by the whole world in decades. After successfully containing the pandemic at home, China has been leading the global recovery for months C so in this context, the CIIE has more than ever a pivotal role to play in supporting economic exchanges between China and the rest of the world. A As countries emerge from the pandemic, they are even more motivated to develop their economies and improve the living standards of their people. Chinas effective handling of the pandemic at home and its subsequent early and strong recovery have meant that the rest world has been able to kickstart its own recovery and for businesses, this has meant being able to quickly pick up where they had left off and show resilience. A The gradual but muchneeded transition toward more sustainable practices in China present opportunities for multinationals to increasingly show their value as responsible companies. Consumers are demanding healthier, higher quality and more premium products, and we are dedicated to continue to provide them with new offerings that appeal to our increasingly nutritionconscious customers. On the occasion of this CIIE, TCP showcases our commitment to creating value for the economy, society and the environment wherever we do business and that we intend to be a force in society that inspires and helps people fulfill their passions. A We felt that the business environment in China has been improved continuously in recent years. We are looking forward to a higherlevel of openingup and more supporting policies for foreign companies. A Thanks to Chinas unwavering reform and openingup, over three decades ago, the TCP founder and the inventor of Red Bull, was proud to return to his ancestral homeland of Hainan province and establish the first Red Bull factory in the country. In this new era, as China optimized its business environment, Chinese consumers have played an increasingly important role in the global economy, and China has become a major force in leading global economic development. A Chinas reform and openingup policy has brought about major strides forward in terms of intellectual property protection. Indeed, with Chinas capacity for innovation having ascended to the top of the national policy agenda, Chinese authorities and the local business community have made incredible progress both in strengthening enforcement of intellectual property rights at home and creating an environment where all companies C both domestic and foreign C can feel that their brands and technologies are secure and protected. This is important for companies such as TCP C an environment in which we can protect our brand and help it flourish. A For nearly three decades, TCP has been an important bridge between China and Thailand, with Red Bull continually helping energize positive relations between our two great nations. As such, we can only applaud and encourage Chinas plan to step up trade and business linkages with the rest of the world and in particular Southeast Asia and Thailand through the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership agreement. This will widen trade flows and boost economic and trade ties between the two countries, attracting more investments and therefore reducing the impact of the COVID pandemic on the economies in the region. Markus Steilemann, CEO of Covestro. Photo provided to chinadaily.com.cn A Covestro participates in the CIIE for the first time in , under the theme of Pioneering a Circular Economy for a ClimateNeutral Future. With a broad portfolio focused on circularity in various industries, we are strategically positioned to support and contribute to Chinas sustainable development, especially the nations carbon neutral ambitions. At the CIIE, we demonstrate our successful collaboration cases, and, at the same time, explore new cooperation opportunities with all sides to drive the highquality, sustainable development of the Chinese economy. A The CIIE is a demonstration of Chinas willingness to create easier market access and a fairer, more transparent business environment. For multinationals, the fair is not only an important occasion to increase brand awareness, but will also help to build closer bonds with partners to jointly drive business growth in China. The CIIE is fully taking its role as the connecting force between Chinas domestic circulation and international circulation. As our first attendance at the CIIE, we look forward to leveraging this platform to introduce our innovative sustainable solutions and products, and to explore huge opportunities in this promising market. A China contributed  percent of the global import increment in the first half, which underscores that it remains committed to market opening, strengthening cooperation and sharing the fruits with the world. Chinas dualcirculation development model is set to sustain growth for the coming years, strengthening domestic demand and foreign trade. With the domestic market as the reliable mainstay, foreign enterprises will find a good environment in China. With Chinas continuous efforts in openingup as well as its carbon ambitions, we are encouraged to look for more room to grow here with our partners. A We believe demand for hightech materials such as polymers will remain strong. For example, Chinas ongoing consumption upgrade has made it imperative to provide highquality and sustainable products that meet consumers changing needs in areas ranging from EV and autonomous driving over renewable energy to electronics and electrical products. As China further promotes industrial and consumption upgrading and delivers its promise on carbon neutrality in the decades ahead, there will be huge opportunities for global companies like Covestro to support this development and realize highquality growth. A We are ple