S. Korea count spikes as variant strains spread
2021/8/5 9:59
People wait in line to get coronavirus disease COVID test at a coronavirus testing site in Seoul, South Korea, July , .  SEOULNEW YORKSouth Korea posted a sharp increase in coronavirus cases on Wednesday as it struggles to tame a fourth wave of infections amid the spread of new strains of virus variants. The Korea Disease Control and Prevention Agency, or KDCA, reported , cases for Tuesday, up by more than  from a day before, as more tests were conducted after the weekend. Total infections rose to ,, with , deaths. The daily tally hit a new high of , last week, partly fueled by the more contagious Delta variant, with the fourth COVID wave showing little signs of subsiding. Health authorities were concerned that people traveled about . percent more last week compared with the week before, or about  percent more than in early January, in the regions beyond the capital Seoul and its neighboring areas, largely for summer vacations. Senior health official Lee Giil told a news conference There is fatigue from long periods of distancing, and its a summer vacation season. The country tightened social distancing curbs last week across most of the country for two weeks ahead of the peak summer holiday period. The KDCA said on Tuesday it had detected the countrys first two cases of the new Delta Plus COVID variant, a sublineage of the Delta variant first identified in India. Only a handful of countries, including the United Kingdom, Portugal and India, have reported Delta Plus cases so far. Delta Plus is still being studied, but some scientists say it may be more transmissible. Health authorities have said several major vaccines work against the Delta variant. Nearly . percent of the countrys  million population had received at least one shot as of Wednesday, and . percent had been fully vaccinated. In the United States, where authorities are grappling with the rapidly spreading Delta variant, New York will become the first major US city to require proof of COVID vaccination at restaurants, gyms and other businesses, Mayor Bill de Blasio said on Tuesday. day moratorium With vaccines widely available, political leaders were combating the latest surge in infections with shots and masks rather than ordering businesses to close and people to stay home as they did last year. The US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention on Tuesday issued a new day moratorium on residential evictions in areas with high levels of COVID cases, despite a Supreme Court ruling in June suggesting that such a move would require Congress to pass new legislation. In France, the governments imposition of a nationwide health passport proving vaccination has touched off large protests, often dispersed by police using tear gas. Government vaccine passports are controversial among US citizens as well, especially conservatives. Meanwhile, Australias New South Wales state reported one of the countrys youngest deaths from COVID on Wednesday, as daily infections lingered near a month high despite the lockdown of  million people in Sydney entering its sixth week. The unnamed man in his s, who had no underlying health issues and was unvaccinated, died at his home in the city, authorities said. He deteriorated rapidly after earlier complaining of just mild symptoms, they said. The man was ineligible for a vaccine from Pfizer, as Australia limits that type to people over  amid tight supplies, while Canberra has only recently told people to take the AstraZeneca vaccine as cases swell, having previously limited it to people over . Agencies via Xinhua