Bush China group helps secure masks
2020/4/28 23:11
File photo personal protective equipment.  A TexasChina network is helping secure face masks to fight the novel coronavirus in the Houston area. The George H.W. Bush Foundation for USChina Relations Bush China Foundation in Houston and the Sino US Cooperation Beijing Center have secured donations of nearly , masks through the Bush China Foundations Coronavirus Action Network CAN to the city of Houston, Interfaith Ministries for Greater Houston, Methodist Hospital and Medical Bridges. The first shipment of , masks was delivered last week, said Robbin Goodman, director of business programs and corporate affairs at the Bush China Foundation. CAN, launched by the Bush China Foundation in January, helped to secure personal protective equipment PPE to help China fight the novel coronavirus when the pandemic was centered in Wuhan. As the COVID virus began to spread in the US, CAN members, such as the Sino US Cooperation Beijing Center, have worked to procure additional PPE for communities in the United States, according to Goodman. The donated masks were purchased with money donated by three companies Asia  America Consultants Ltd, China Prospect Education Group and Shenzhen Youhua Technology Co Ltd. The masks are earmarked primarily for rural area clinics and charitable hospitals and are part of a series of ongoing support efforts from China. Neil Bush, chairman of the Bush China Foundation, said that people at the foundation are grateful for the generosity of Chinese friends. We share a common humanity, and the willingness to help support communities around the globe in times of need reflects the values that are consistent with my fathers lifelong service to others, and consistent with the values that underpin the relationship between the US and China, he said. Bush pointed out that from March  through April , more than  million masks and  million gloves have been imported from China. China continues to be our reliable trading partner for our country during this time of need. Infectious diseases know no borders. To fight this pandemic, to get our city and our country going again, it is critical that people from across the globe find our common humanity that we lock ours and that we work together, Bush said. The Bush family is an integral part of the Houston community. Time and time again they step up when their hometown needs them, and we value their generous donation at a time when our city is dealing with a public health crisis, Houston Mayor Sylvester Turner said in a statement. We are thankful to the Bush China Foundation and CAN initiative partners for securing these muchneeded masks to ensure those who need a mask may get one. The city of Houston received about , masks as part of the donation. Turner said the gift is timely because Houston began Mask Up campaign last week, and maskwearing in public places became mandatory on Monday. The donated masks will be distributed to vulnerable communities to make sure everyone has access to them. Harris County, which includes Houston, issued an executive order last week requiring the use of face coverings in public spaces for all persons over the age of , with exceptions for exercise and such activities. This order is effective Monday for  days and calls for up to a , fine for violation. We are extremely grateful to the Bush China Foundation and donors in China who are providing desperately needed masks, said Walter Ulrich, CEO of Medical Bridges. Ulrich said the donated masks to Medical Bridges will serve  charitable clinics and rural hospitals in Texas. Medical Bridges has provided lifesaving medical equipment and supplies over the years to underserved communities in  countries, including China, and it is uplifting to receive such support from our partners in China, he said.