Joint medical team returns from Uzbekistan
2020/4/28 21:37
China and Uzbekistan officially launched a multinational remote medical system to share treatment methods and experiences with Uzbekistan efficiently and in a timely manner. Photo provided by Joint Working Team from China to Uzbekistan Experts on a joint working team returned to East Chinas Jiangxi province on Tuesday after working to prevent and control COVID in Uzbekistan for over  days. The team composed of  experts in the fields of health management, disease control, respiration and nursing was dispatched by Jiangxi province to Uzbekistan on April . They held a meeting the night they arrived in Tashkent, Uzbekistan, to understand the current situation of the local prevention and control work. Everyone in our team wanted to race with time to contribute to the global efforts on fighting against the pandemic with experiences accumulated in China. Our team members worked hard at the frontlines, earning appreciation from local people, said Luo Lisheng, the team leader. According to local needs, the team was divided into seven groups to provide assistance in seven states of Uzbekistan, including Samarkand and Fergana. They visited more than  medical and health organizations in Uzbekistan to provide help on COVID prevention and control. The team also cooperated with the Uzbekistani Ministry of Health to carry out national training, sharing experiences in COVID prevention and control with Uzbekistani medical staff. The team donated disposable medical surgical masks, N masks, protective gear, nucleic acid detection kits, medical goggles and other supplies and treatment drugs to alleviate the shortage of medical equipment and materials in Uzbekistan. To share treatment methods and experiences with Uzbekistan in an efficient and timely way, China and Uzbekistan officially launched a multinational remote medical system on April . With the remote system, hospitals in Jiangxi can conduct consultations and remote diagnosis of COVID cases by reading patients images online. The team also brought , health kits and protective materials to Chinese in Uzbekistan and had video calls with Chinese in Uzbekistan to answer their questions on COVID prevention and control, as well as Chinese Traditional Medicinerelated consultation. China and Uzbekistan officially launched a multinational remote medical system to share treatment methods and experiences with Uzbekistan in a timely manner and efficiently. Photo provided by Joint Working Team from China to Uzbekistan The team donated disposable medical surgical masks, N masks, protective gears, nucleic acid detection kits, medical goggles and other supplies and treatment medications to alleviate the shortage of medical equipment and materials in Uzbekistan. Photo provided by Joint Working Team from China to Uzbekistan The team shares experiences in COVID prevention and control with Uzbekistani medical workers. Photo provided by Joint Working Team from China to Uzbekistan The team cooperated with the Uzbekistani Ministry of Health to provide training to local medical workers. Photo provided by Joint Working Team from China to Uzbekistan