European nations plan to start slow relaxation of lockdown restrictions
2020/4/28 9:28
Kilian, , wears a protective face mask as he jumps from a bench in Igualada, Spain on Sunday, after restrictions on children going outside during the novel coronavirus outbreak were partially lifted. NACHO DOCEREUTERS With cases of novel coronavirus falling in some European countries, nations are beginning to take tentative steps toward easing lockdown restrictions in an effort to limit damage to their economies. Italy has outlined plans to ease the strict restrictions it imposed seven weeks ago to curb the spread of the novel coronavirus. Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte said lockdown measures would be relaxed from May  as it recorded its lowest daily death toll since midMarch. People will be allowed to visit their relatives in small numbers, and parks, factories and building sites will reopen, but schools will not restart classes until September. There were  new virusrelated deaths on Sunday, the lowest daily figure since March .The total is now at ,, the highest in Europe. People will be able to travel inside their own regions of Italy, while hairdressers, bars and restaurants will reopen for takeaway services from May  and are set to open to dinein customers from June . Other retailers, museums and libraries will reopen on May . There is still no date yet for Italys Serie A soccer league to resume, but individual athletes can begin training again, and people are allowed to do sports outside their homes. Conte said social distancing would continue for months to come, and church services would continue to be banned. If we do not respect the precautions the curve will go up, the deaths will increase, and we will have irreversible damage to our economy, Conte said. Italy has confirmed , cases of the virus, according to data from Johns Hopkins University, which is tracking the disease globally. Switzerland and Spain are also relaxing their measures. Hairdressers and garden centers have reopened in Switzerland, and students will return to school from May . Restrictions of movement in Spain, one of the worsthit countries in the pandemic, have been eased to allow children outside for the first time in six weeks. Spain reported its lowest daily death toll in more than a month on Sunday when its Health Ministry said  people had died of the virus, the lowest number since March . Children under the age of  were allowed to leave their homes and are now allowed outside for one hour a day. The Health Ministry said the total number of fatalities now stood at ,. Fernando Simon, director of the Spanish Health Alert and Emergency Coordination Center, said For the first time in a long time, we are below . Although it may be hard to give these statistics, its a figure which indicates a clear, positive direction in the evolution of the epidemic. Germanywhere the lockdown has been relatively relaxedbegan its exit strategy last week but has made it mandatory to wear face masks outside. Masks are now compulsory on public transport, with most states also making them mandatory when shopping. Officials are recommending people use simple coverings and leave medical masks for health professionals. Bloomberg reported on how Germany seeks to navigate opening up just enough to revive the economy without reigniting a second virus wave. It said the nations strategy would be watched closely by the United Kingdom, and other hardhit countries, but added that there is a danger of overconfidence in Germany due to its relatively fortunate experience. Laboratories in Germany have the capacity to conduct , tests daily, though fewer than , are conducted each week, and Bloomberg said the nation is expanding local armies of contact tracers to track infection chains. There are , unoccupied intensive care beds nationwide, about  percent of the total. While Italians and Spaniards would never forget the appalling scenes that unfolded in their overcrowded hospitals, Bloomberg noted that Germanys health system was never overwhelmed by novel coronavirus cases. In Berlin, only about  of the citys . million inhabitants have died from the disease, and nationwide there have been fewer than , recorded virus deaths, about one quarter of the total in neighboring France. Lockdown measures in France are set to continue for now. But Prime Minister Edouard Philippe said he would propose an exit strategy on Tuesday for Parliament to vote on.