Consumption of services seen as crucial to growth
2021/8/5 9:22
A COVID vaccine is administered on Aug ,  in Ferguson, Missouri.  WASHINGTON  Most unvaccinated American adults dont believe the COVID vaccines are very effective and see the vaccines as a greater health risk than the virus itself, found a new survey published Wednesday. A narrow majority  percent of unvaccinated adults believe the vaccine poses a bigger risk to their health than COVID itself while an overwhelming majority  percent of vaccinated adults say that getting infected with COVID is a bigger risk to their health than the vaccine, according to the Kaiser Family Foundation KFF survey. Most  percent unvaccinated adults also say that the news has generally exaggerated the seriousness of the pandemic, while threefourths of vaccinated adults say the news has been generally correct  percent or has underestimated its seriousness  percent. Among those who say they will definitely not get a vaccine,  percent say the news is exaggerated. The sharply different views of the vaccinated and unvaccinated help to explain the contentiousness of ongoing policy debates about vaccine mandates, said KFF in the report. For example, vaccinated adults are far more likely than unvaccinated adults to say the federal government should recommend employers require vaccinations among their workers  percent vs  percent. The public overall is split, with similar shares saying they think the federal government should recommend this  percent and should not  percent. Vaccinated adults also are more likely to say they wear masks in grocery stores and other indoor places  percent vs  percent, at work  percent vs  percent, or in crowded outdoor settings  percent vs  percent. These differences are to a large degree driven by unvaccinated Republicans. Majorities of Republicans say they never wear a mask outdoors in crowded outdoor places, at work, or in a grocery store. Democrats are more likely to report wearing a mask at least most of the time in all of these locations, said KFF. The healthfocused nonprofit group surveyed , adults between July  and  for this chapter of its survey, and found little change among those with the most hardened attitudes about vaccination. About  percent of those surveyed say they will definitely not get vaccinated  the same proportion as in December.