Negative oil futures price reflects shock of pandemic
2020/4/27 16:00
An Indian Muslim family returns to their home after shopping during a threehour relaxation of restrictions to buy essential items during the holy month of Ramadan at the old quarters of New Delhi, India, April , . AP Over the past four months, COVID has posed a serious public health challenge throughout the world, forcing many countries to implement lockdowns in a bid to stem the spread of the virus. Following several other countries, India under Prime Minister Narendra Modi introduced a day lockdown in two phases from March  to May  to avert the possible catastrophe caused by the pandemic in the worlds secondmost populous country. So far, the fullblown lockdown is the prime stuff of Indias response to the contagious virus. But whether you admit it or not, the sudden notice for the panIndia lockdown with zero preparation by Modi hit on the poorest of the poor, the migrant workers and daily wage laborers in India, hard. Truly speaking, the nationwide lockdown has, on the one hand, unmasked Indias ailing healthcare system, while on the other hand, exposing the plight of its poor. As per a Brookings India report, based on data from the Union governments National Health Profile, published on March , India has just . beds per , citizens and one doctor for every , citizens, far below what is prescribed by the World Health Organization. Sad but true, the goal of protecting everyones health has not been achieved even  years after independence. As the number of COVID cases and fatalities increases amid the lockdown, affecting everyone from health experts to ordinary Indians, all are questioning the direction of the governments response to the COVID measures as well as its health policy. Health workers do not have adequate safety equipment, such as personal protective equipment PPE, N or even threeply masks. Meanwhile, ventilators, too, are inadequate, and rapid disease testings kits are not enough. Without addressing these problems, India will never be able to tackle the ongoing health crisis or prevent future ones. The pandemic has given a strong signal that if the Indian government wants to provide medical treatment to all confirmed, suspected and asymptomatic patients, the public health system will not keep unprotected, impaired. COVID has also made visible Indias center and state governments crass callousness toward its own people living below the poverty line C  percent of the population. The Modi governments socalled ameliorative economic assistance of  rupees less than  US dollars for some selective lowwage earners amid the crisis does not adequately meet the needs of many. It can be said that the lockdown has put the most vulnerable communities struggle to survive. It seems both the Union government and most of the state governments are now engaged in political war rather than addressing the life and livelihood crisis caused by the virusinduced lockdown. The heartwrenching images of the countrys impoverished and migrant laborers on various national highways and footpaths across India have raised a critical question Is the coronavirus lockdown really bearable or beneficial for the poor in India? So far, the poorlyplanned lockdown has made the lives of many poor people and migrant workers miserable. Many desperate day laborers have met their deaths on the highway while trying to return their villages on foot during the lockdown. What is particularly worrying is that during the first  days of the lockdown, the unemployment rate had soared to three times to . percent on April , up from . percent on March , as the Center for Monitoring Indian Economy reported on April . On the other hand, the International Labor Organization in its report titled ILO Monitor nd edition COVID and the world of work noted that About  million people working in the informal economy in India are at risk of falling deeper into poverty due to the coronavirus crisis. Its unfortunate that Indias political leadership is now using the pandemic as a weapon for polishing their images keeping eyes on vote banks. The tragic deaths of workers vividly indicate that their hardships and welfare were not considered at the time of the hasty lockdown announcement. Surely, more and more workers without incomes and, of course, their families will die from hunger. It is the governments responsibility, both central and states government, to control the spread of the contagion by enforcing the lockdown while ensuring the supply of basic necessities to the downtrodden. The prolonged lockdown has increased the plight of poor people and penniless migrant workers who have been starving in many states across India. There is an urgent need to make the homeless, hungry people understand that the government is concerned about their relief. Otherwise, demonstrations against the lockdown will continue on a massive scale, as seen at Bandra Station in Mumbai or on the streets of Surat. At this troubled time, the Narendra Modi government needs to hand out rice, wheat and other amenities, and of course, hard cash to the poor for at least six months. The pandemic crisis has now become a survival crisis for the poor of India. In the face of this great danger, the people of India do not want politics from the Union government or the state governments. Both ruling and opposition parties should work hand in hand in containing the virus while addressing the loopholes of the lockdown to protect citizens better. It is hoped that Indian politicians put their petty political interests under total lockdown, not the larger interests of . billion Indians.