Coronavirus is closing US meatpacking plants
2020/4/27 13:45
Security wear face mask at JBS USA meat packing plant, where two members of the staff have died of coronavirus disease COVID, in Greeley, Colorado, US April , .  Governors in the US Midwest are warning that the nations beef and pork supplies could be threatened by the current closure of dozens of meatpacking plants where reportedly at least , workers have tested positive for the coronavirus and at least  have died. The Washington Post on Saturday reported the number of sickened and dead workers, citing a review of news reports, county health reports and interviews with health officials and worker advocates. On April , USA Today reported that  plants in  states had more than , cases of confirmed virus infections among workers and  worker deaths at eight plants in eight states. The Post reported that three of the nations largest meat processors  Tyson Foods, JBS USA and Smithfield Foods  failed to provide protective gear to all workers and that some employees told the newspaper they were told to continue working in crowded plants even while sick. Tyson, JBS and Smithfield have closed  plants, the newspaper said, and all strongly defended their efforts to protect their employees from the coronavirus, the newspaper reported. All three companies said they have increased sanitation, have taken steps to ensure social distancing and are checking temperatures as workers report for their shifts. They said they are requiring quarantines for employees who have tested positive for the coronavirus and for those in close contact with them. Meat processing workers are particularly susceptible to the virus because they typically work right next to each other on the line and congregate in crowded locker rooms and cafeterias, and many have said they have not been equipped with adequate protective gear. On Sunday, Tyson Board Chairman John Tyson said in a fullpage ad in The New York Times, The Washington Post and the Arkansas DemocratGazette that the closing of the company plants due to COVID means one thing  the food supply chain is vulnerable. As pork, beef and chicken plants are being forced to close, even for short periods of time, millions of pounds of meat will disappear from the supply chain, he wrote in a letter published as an advertisement. As a result, there will be limited supply of our products available in grocery stores until we are able to reopen our facilities that are currently closed. If we start to see more closures and these facilities remain offline for a prolonged period of time, its hard to imagine a scenario in which consumers dont see changes at the supermarket, said David Ortega, an agricultural economist at Michigan State University. Governors in Iowa, Kansas and South Dakota have said keeping the plants open is necessary to supply the nations food chain. Iowa Governor Kim Reynolds said on April  that even though we will continue to see clusters of positive cases of the virus in the states meatpacking plants, closing them wasnt an option. These are also essential businesses and an essential workforce, said Reynolds, whose state produces onethird of the nations pork. Without them, peoples lives and our food supply will be impacted. So, we must do our part to keep them open in a safe and responsible way. Reynolds has refused to close a Tyson Foods pork plant in Waterloo, where dozens of workers have been infected. She said that if hogs cant be processed, farmers will have to euthanize them. In Kansas, Governor Laura Kelly said It would be a disaster if we had to shut down, so were trying to do everything that we can to keep those plants online. On Friday, Kansas Health Secretary Lee Norman said that the state has identified  coronavirus cases among workers at six meatpacking plants. None of the states major meatpacking plants have fully shut down. Cargill and National Beef have reported infections among employees at plants in southwest Kansas, prompting Kelly to direct federal tests and safety equipment to counties in that region. Plants in southwest Kansas account for  to  percent of beef processing in the US. The states major meatpacking plants havent fully shut down one closed for a few days for deep cleaning. Weve found isolation housing for those who need to be quarantined if theyve had any contact, Kelly said April . So were taking a very aggressive approach, because we dont want to be like Iowa or South Dakota where were having to shut those plants down. Last week, Smithfield Foods, the worlds largest pork producer, shut down its porkprocessing plant in Sioux Falls, South Dakota, that accounts for up to  percent of the countrys pork production. The closure came after more than  of the workers were infected and one died from COVID. The company also has closed two other plants in Illinois. When the plant was closed, Smithfield president and CEO Kenneth Sullivan said in a statement We believe it is our obligation to help feed the country, now more than ever. We have a stark choice as a nation we are either going to produce food or not, even in the face of COVID. South Dakota Governor Kristi Noem said closing the plant already has been devastating for regional producers. Virginia has  meat processing plants. Some companies will disclose whether any coronavirus cases have occurred at their plants but many C including Smithfield Foods headquartered in Smithfield C wont. The company website says that out of respect for our employees legal privacy, we will not confirm COVID cases in our facilities. Unions representing safety inspectors and plant workers have urged the US Department of Agriculture USDA to tell the plants how to deal with coronavirus outbreaks. But the USDA has instead deferred to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention CDC to give the plants recommendations and has left it to companies to determine their own safety precautions. The Occupational Safety and Health Administration OSHA has decided not to make any of the CDC guidance mandatory. OSHA said it wouldnt enforce such regulations so as not to overly burden companies during the pandemic.