Pakistan says timely aid helped control outbreak
2020/4/27 10:25
A police officer stands near a set up roadblock, amid lockdown, in an effort to prevent the spread of the COVID, in Lahore, Pakistan April , .  Pakistani officials accorded warm welcome to the second Chinese medical team that arrived in the country as the country extended its lockdown until May  and allowed flexible arrangements for Ramadan in some cities. Chinas medical assistance coupled with the transfer of knowledge and expertise has helped Pakistan to contain the pandemic, Naeem Afzal Chan, a spokesperson of Pakistans Prime Minister Imran Khan said. China came to Pakistans rescue at a time when it was needed the most. And it once again proved to be an iron friend, he said. Chinese Air Force transport aircraft carrying medical experts and supplies arrived in Islamabad, in an effort to help Pakistan cope with the COVID outbreak, said the Chinese embassy in Pakistan on Twitter on Friday. The team comprises  medical professionals from the Peoples Liberation Army. Medical staff from the PLA have contributed much to Chinas fight against COVID in Wuhan over the past months. Meanwhile, Yao Jing, Chinas ambassador to Pakistan, reiterated that China is Pakistans close friend and steadfast partner, at a meeting with Pakistans Foreign Minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi on Friday. Pakistan extended valuable support to Chinas fight against outbreak, Yao said. And Pakistani President Arif Alvis visit to Beijing in March was an expression of tremendous solidarity with the Chinese people and further cemented our ties, he said. China will continue to strengthen Pakistans capacity to fight this pandemic, he said. Speaking about Chinas support, Zafar Mira, special assistant to prime minister on national health services, said that the country had been successful in containing the outbreak with the help of China, and that Pakistan may have fallen prey to the pandemic had the Chinese not come in on time. We are grateful to China for its continuous assistance against unseen this enemyCOVID. And we are winning against it with the help of our Chinese friends, Zafar said. According to the World Health Organization, Pakistan had a total of , confirmed cases by Sunday, with  deaths. The first team of Chinese medical experts landed in Islamabad late last month, holding more than  events across the country before returning home on April . Then, as advised by the Chinese experts, Pakistan imposed complete lockdown of areas where cases had emerged, and later partially relaxed the curbs if no new cases reported. This produced remarkable results. The areas were cleared after no new case was reported there, said Sheikh Ansar Aziz, the mayor of Islamabad. Supplies from the Chinese government and private companies included N and medical masks, ventilators, thermometers, thermal scanners, gloves, goggles, sanitizers, and nonwoven fabric for making protective suits apart from personal protection equipment and testing kits. After the initial success in decreasing the spread of the virus, Pakistani government relaxed its lockdowns across country a few days before the start of Ramadan. The writer is a freelance journalist for China Daily based in Islamabad.