HK residents stuck in India call for help as evacuation planned
2020/4/27 9:46
Around , senior high school students from  schools in Beijing returned to their campuses on Monday morning following a disruption due to the coronavirus. All the schools have disinfected their facilities, including classrooms, and prepared more than  million masks for students and staff members. Video Xu Jingxing Du Juan contributed to the story. Senior high school students in Beijing resume classes on April , . Photo by Xu Jingingchinadaily.com.cn Senior high school students in Beijing resume classes on April , . Photo by Xu Jingingchinadaily.com.cn Two workers paste signs on the ground at the entrance of No  Middle School in Beijing, to prepare for senior high school students return to school on April , . .com The ground at the gate of No  Middle School in Beijing is sprayed with marks to remind students to keep distance between each other, as senior high school students begin returning to school on April , . .com Around , senior high school students from  schools in Beijing returned to their campuses on Monday morning following a disruption due to the coronavirus. All the schools have disinfected their facilities, including classrooms, and prepared more than  million masks for students and staff members. Photo provided to chinadaily.com.cn Around , senior high school students from  schools in Beijing returned to their campuses on Monday morning following a disruption due to the coronavirus. All the schools have disinfected their facilities, including classrooms, and prepared more than  million masks for students and staff members. Photo provided to chinadaily.com.cn Around , senior high school students from  schools in Beijing returned to their campuses on Monday morning following a disruption due to the coronavirus. All the schools have disinfected their facilities, including classrooms, and prepared more than  million masks for students and staff members. Photo provided to chinadaily.com.cn Around , senior high school students from  schools in Beijing returned to their campuses on Monday morning following a disruption due to the coronavirus. All the schools have disinfected their facilities, including classrooms, and prepared more than  million masks for students and staff members. Photo provided to chinadaily.com.cn Senior high school students have their temperature checked at Hongzhi Middle School on April , . Photo by Zou Hongchinadaily.com.cn Senior high school students take a class at Hongzhi Middle School on April , . Photo by Zou Hongchinadaily.com.cn Senior high school students take a class at Hongzhi Middle School on April , . Photo by Zou Hongchinadaily.com.cn Senior high school students maintain social distance to enter the classroom at Hongzhi Middle School on April , . Photo by Zou Hongchinadaily.com.cn