Turn crisis into opportunity, ancestral wisdom tells us
2020/4/27 8:40
Desperate times call for desperate measures. Amid the novel coronavirus pandemic, we have acquired unconventional habits, including wearing face masks almost daily, ordering takeouts and staying at home. Many experts have predicted the pandemic will not subside soon, not before a vaccine or designated drugs can be developed. But, life has to go on with or without the disease. The survival instinct has carried mankind thus far and, for sure, it would help us ride out the storm. However, those unconventional habits, if left unchecked, will leave us a physical legacy that would take up to , years to go away  plastic waste. First on the list are the millions of nondegradable face masks being used and dumped around the globe each day. Thousands of millions more masks are on the way as the world keeps churning them out to fend off the virus to buy enough time for a cure. How we eat has become another behavior that contributes to this legacy. According to a Hong Kong food delivery chain, orders on its platform had doubled in the first quarter of this year, while the number of diners surged by  percent to , in January alone. Bucking the trend of staff layoffs to cushion the economic strain, the company hired , more delivery men recently, and plans to employ a further , by the end of the year. One mans gain is another mans loss. This time, its mankinds loss. Evidently, increased orders in the fooddelivery sector have taken the utilization of singleuse plastic to a climax. Hong Kongs daily volume of discarded plastic dining wares at its landfills has gone up by some  percent in four years  from  tons a day to  tons. On the other hand, a longterm independent variable on the governments radar  polyfoam dining wares, mostly used in takeaways picked up by customers or delivered by restaurant staff  have been steadily decreasing since , from  tons per day to  tons daily in   down by . percent in four years. To ensure food is safe and sound and avoid negative customer response, food delivery tends to use more plastic packaging utensils and singleuse dining ware than takeouts picked up by customers or delivered by restaurants. Undoubtedly, this has worsened the situation. Apart from the fooddelivery sector, many ecommerce platforms are gaining momentum amid the pandemic, with people staying at home and practicing social distancing. The trend is not unique in Hong Kong  its also observed on the Chinese mainland, where a lot of traditional industries turn to online platforms or livestreaming for a way out. But, the more people purchase online, the more packaging waste, plastic or not, were producing. Im not saying we shouldnt buy as this would be unrealistic. However, the feverish shopping craze could, in fact, be a chance for people to come up with creative ways to deal with such a large amount of garbage weve created. It could also be a chance to force fooddelivery companies to use biodegradable materials for packaging. We cant simply quench thirst with poison. This plastic waste might be out of sight now, but theyll be eventually crawling back to your mouth. According to a study by World Wildlife Fund, an international green advocate, humans on average use about  grams of plastic weekly, after which theyre buried in landfills and then break into invisible microplastic. At the end of the day, it all boils down to the traditional belief of Chinese people  turning crisis into an opportunity. Thats exactly what online platforms and those switching to livestreaming are doing. And thats how it has been done for centuries and how we should handle it this time for the sake of the planet and mankind as well.