Battling the invisible, silent killer in bad air
2020/4/27 8:40
HK on Sunday recorded its secondworst level of air pollution at Very High. The EPD cited a surge of ozone likely to linger till strong winds blow it away. Air Pollution causes premature deaths of thousands annually in the city. Ozone is toxic and reduces human immunity to respiratory diseases. Fortunately, annual air pollution death statistics are declining. Greater regional coordination and switch to electric vehicles are seen as effective measures. Shadow Li reports. Up to , premature deaths blamed on air pollution were recorded in Hong Kong by the Environmental Protection Department last year. The grim figure is, ironically, positive compared with , people who died prematurely from air pollution in , with a  percent decline in medical expenditure to HK million . million in , from HK million five years earlier. Even more alarming, amid the threat from the COVID pandemic, is the weakening of our natural immune system due to air pollution. By the latest count, more than . million people worldwide have contracted the novel coronavirus, with many more exposed to the lingering risk. Although COVID is too recent for data trend analysis and we cant see the direct relationship between the infections and air pollution at present, global medical experts said that, from different perspectives, polluted air irritates the bodys airway and inflames the lungs thin tissue layer. Leung Chichiu, chairman of the Hong Kong Medical Association Advisory Committee on Communicable Diseases, says polluted air weakens a persons natural immunity, raising susceptibility to bacterial and viral infections in the respiratory system. Past experience shows a higher influenza and respiratory infection rate among children when air pollution worsens. The Hedley Environmental Index, compiled by the University of Hong Kong, found that air pollution was responsible for up to . million doctor visits, , hospital bed days and , deaths in the city in . WHO limits badair days For health risks, we should look to the average eighthour ozone concentration, recommended by the World Health Organization, as sustained exposure to high concentrations of ozone could cause respiratory damage, an EPD spokesperson said. According to the departments data for last year, only five of the citys  ambient and roadside air monitoring stations recorded levels within the WHOs guideline. Tap Mun  a small island in the northeastern New Territories with only about  inhabitants  had  days of eighthour ozone concentration above the recommended level of  g per cubic meters  the highest registered on the island since data records began in . Tap Mun has no local source of air pollution, but is affected by windborne toxic air. The WHOs ozone guideline allows countries and regions to set their own compliance standards. The Hong Kong government aims to keep the number of days breaching the WHO limit to below nine in a year. The highest daily maximum eighthour ozone concentration in  was recorded in Tuen Mun, at  gcu m  more than double the WHOs recommendation. In , all stations across Hong Kong, except that on Tap Mun, recorded fewer than nine days when the WHO limit was breached. The EPD said meteorological factors, including typhoons and monsoons, contributed to the ozone surge in . The downdrafts from tropical cyclones turned the city into a vortex for precursors to fully react into ozone. Precursors are chemicals that react to create ozone. The downdrafts hold the ozone from dispersing. Other pollutants make ozone Amos Tai Puikuen, associate professor of the Earth System Science Program of the Chinese University of Hong Kong, says Ozone is a secondary air pollutant. You cant get to it directly. You can only manage it by controlling its precursors. Groundlevel, or nearground level ozone, is the main component of photochemical smog, which develops when the nitrogen oxides NOx from vehicle exhaust react with volatile organic compounds VOCs from solvents, hair spray, paints, printing, and other sources, catalyzed by sunlight. Over  VOCs contribute to the groundlevel ozone reaction, of which about a third flow naturally from trees and other plant life. Thats why tackling the ozone pollution problem is hard, said Tai. Paradoxically, at an early stage, if the NOx goes down, so does the ozone, but when NOx falls below a certain point, ozone goes up again. The interrelationship is nonlinear. Nitrogen monoxide NO from automobile exhaust can consume ozone in the ambient air, but as NO from vehicle exhaust reduces through fossilfuel controls, it would also limit ozone consumption in the roadside areas, causing net ozone to increase, explained Tai. At ground level, ozone is a major pollutant, along with particulate matter fine dust of PM, PM., nitrogen dioxide, carbon monoxide, and sulphur dioxide. The EPD says Hong Kongs ozone concentrations in  hit their highest level in  years, while other pollutants declined between  and  percent over the same period. The annual average ambient and roadside concentrations of ozone climbed to  gcu m and  gcu m in , when they were respectively only  and  gcu m in . Ozone concentrations in urban areas, especially roadside, have gone up about  percent for the same period. The roadside ozone concentration surged by  percent last year against . It rose by just  percent from  to . The EPD does not expect the rising trend to moderate before . But, the annual ozone concentration serves only as an alert indicator. Global warming adds more Ozone is one of the greenhouse gases, which increase with global warming. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change IPCC said global temperatures rose by  C above preindustrial levels and will rise by another degree Celsius by the end of the century. Warmer temperatures will cause trees to release more VOCs, contributing to higher ozone levels. Tais recent study published in Atmosphere shows that ozone also retards growth of crops. Tai estimates that ozone has cost the Chinese mainland a  to  percent in crop yields, and reduced global forest carbon absorption by  to  percent. But trees, one of the major sources of VOCs, can also mitigate ozone pollution if we plant the right ones, said Tai. We need trees with lower emissions of VOCs and higher absorption of ozone in urban areas, to counterbalance the VOCs produced from other sources, he added. Extraneous air pollution The EPD plans a twopronged strategy  control the precursors locally, and enhance regional cooperation to reduce ozone formation. Wang Tao, chair professor of atmospheric environment at Hong Kong Polytechnic University, has done extensive research on ozone over more than two decades. He said extraneous ozone contributes to about half of the citys air pollution. The university has established an air monitoring station at Cape DAguilar on the southeastern tip of Hong Kong Island to monitor crossboundary ozone. Wang says ozone drifting in from the Pearl River Delta PRD has stabilized over the past decade. The air pollutants blown by monsoons from Southeast Asia, while contributing a small fraction of the citys overall ozone concentration, have gone up by  percent, or about  gcu m, over the past two decades. The background ozone has reached a turning point. With the PRDs efforts to eradicate precursors further, we can expect a change for the better, he said. Wang uses a computer model to examine the interplay of ozones precursors, climate, basic chemistry, and physics. He hopes to calculate the precise influence of each factor within the overall problem, so that scientists would be able to offer better guidance for future planning. Regional coordination Authorities in Hong Kong, Macao and Guangdong province are planning a joint study to combat the rising ozone levels. Hong Kong and Guangdong are adding realtime VOC monitoring to their regional air monitoring network. It includes plans for threedimensional monitoring, using light detection and ranging LIDAR technology to measure concentrations of ozone and PM. at high altitude, to understand how they form and flow into the wider atmosphere. Data from Guangdongs Department of Ecology and Environment showed that during  percent of the days in , when air pollution exceeded the safety limit, ozone was the prime culprit. Among the  prefecturelevel cities in Guangdong, seven show ozone concentrations exceeding the WHO guideline. Guangdong is the industrial powerhouse generating VOCs from refineries, power plants, industrial boilers, printing, and furniture manufacture. The department plans to limit VOCs for ozone reduction. Controlling nitrogen dioxides by reducing the use of fossil fuels will continue. EV final solution? Wang argued that the most effective remedy for air pollution would be electric vehicles EVs, which would get rid of the problem altogether. In days when air pollution is high, and the city is shrouded in hazardous smoke, Hong Kongs high rises block the dispersal of the bad air. Residents can taste the vehicle exhaust while waiting for buses. Switching to electric for public transport and ferries would be an immediate relief. Roadside air quality would improve. Air pollutants, including ozone, would be reduced, said Wang. The EPD argues that EVs are still technically immature. The batteries have a disposal problem with a limited lifespan and low energy density. Charging time is long. The EPD is not convinced that electric vehicles are a suitable solution for the hilly streets of Hong Kong. The government is testing electric ferries and light buses. Apart from over , echarging stations to be built in public car parks, the government allocated HK billion to subsidize car parks for EVs in October last year. But that seems a relatively trivial measure to alleviate the rising ozone pollution. Ozone cant be filtered like PMs via face masks. Its hard to avoid, said Hong Kong University of Science and Technology scholar Alexis Lau Kaihon, who invented PraiseHK  a mobile application for tailormade health guidance on air quality. The app has been downloaded , times. Contact the writer at stushadowchinadailyhk.com ?