Officials vow intensified battle against counterfeits
2020/4/27 7:17
Employees make masks at a workshop in Zhangjiakou, North Chinas Hebei province, on April , .  China pledged to intensify its fight against counterfeit goods at its roots to further protect intellectual property rights and build a better business environment. This follows achievements in harshly cracking down on fake supplies during the novel coronavirus outbreak. Since the COVID epidemic happened, we mainly clamped down on those producing or selling fake, expired or lowqualify protective materials, including masks and disinfectants, and people who falsified others trademarks to mislead consumers, as this type of behavior harmed the public interest, disturbed market order and affected social stability, said Gan Lin, viceminister of the State Administration for Market Regulation. She spoke on Sunday, World Intellectual Property Day, at a news conference on the countrys latest developments in IPR protection and business environment, held by the State Council Information Office in Beijing. As of Friday, market regulation agencies nationwide had seized more than  million problematic masks and , other unusable protective supplies, said Gan, who also is director of the Office of the National Leading Group on the Fight Against IPR Infringement and Counterfeiting. The agencies had filed , cases and issued fines and confiscated totaling  million yuan . million in administrative punishment, while another  cases have been transferred to public security departments to be criminally investigated, she said. Highlighting the protection of peoples lives, safety and health through crackdowns, she said, Well mete out harsher punishment to those who deliberately or repeatedly make or sell fake goods, as a way to uproot counterfeits and have infringers pay greater penalties for such behavior. Zhang Zhicheng, head of the IP Protection Department of the National Intellectual Property Administration, said intensified administrative and legal efforts not only promote IP rights development, but also help the country improve the business environment. For example, the revised Trademark Law, which took effect in November, has increased compensation for victims of infringement while similar amendments of the Patent Law are also on the way, he said. Last year, government offices that handle IPrelated issues reduced the average time to examine a trademark to . months and revoked , improper trademark applications. That improves efficiency in meeting social demand and ensuring highquality IP development, he added. Such changes helped move Chinas business environment ranking among nations from th in  to st in , according to a World Bank report. The country also scored . out of  in terms of overall IP satisfaction last year, up . points from , Zhang said, citing a report by the National Intellectual Property Administration. Well continue the measures and effectively carry out IP protection requirements raised by the central government to make the business environment better as well as to satisfy highquality economic and social development, he said.