European tourism needs b euros to recover ETC
2020/4/26 20:59
A man wearing a protective face mask walks through a street after the Italian government imposed a virtual lockdown on the north of Italy including Venice to try to contain a coronavirus outbreak, in Venice, Italy, March , .  LISBON  The European Travel Commission ETC, a European tourism organization, has said that the European tourism sector needs  billion euros to recover from the crisis generated by the COVID pandemic and to restore operations, Portuguese Lusa News Agency reported on Sunday. The European Union EU estimates are around  billion euros to help Member States recover the industry, and around  billion euros more for extra investment to help entrepreneurs and operators to restore operations, ETC Executive Director Eduardo Santander said in an interview with Lusa. With European tourism stagnating, due to restrictive measures adopted by EU Member States to try to contain the pandemic, including with limitations on travel between countries, tourism has gone from  percent to zero and today is reduced to practically  percent of what it was, given the total losses, Santander was quoted as saying. Everything is equally affected by the tourism value chain being interconnected, he said. From cruise lines, to other operators and, in particular, to airlines, everyone has huge losses, with drops between  percent for air carriers... and  percent for hotels and restaurants, he explained, according to Lusa. Santander estimated that the crisis is reflected in high unemployment in the sector at European level, adding that losses of  million jobs in Europe may be at stake if the situation continues in the coming months. Most affected, according to the ETC director, will be the countries where the GDP is more dependent on tourism, as is the case of Greece, Portugal, Spain and Italy. Headquartered in Brussels, ETC is a nonprofit organization consisting of  national tourism promotion bodies from European countries.