Green awareness rising among companies in China, says report
2020/4/26 15:09
A man wearing a protective mask takes a picture during a sunrise at Recreio dos Bandeirantes beach, amid the coronavirus disease COVID outbreak, in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil April , .? MEXICO CITY  These days have witnessed a further increase in COVID cases and deaths in Latin America, causing governments to beef up measures to combat the pandemic. Brazil reported  deaths from COVID in the last  hours, bringing the countrys death tally to ,, with , confirmed cases, the countrys health ministry reported on Saturday. On Saturday, the city of Rio de Janeiro announced the opening of its first field hospital to treat patients infected with COVID. The field hospital, built in  days, now has  beds,  of which are in the Intensive Care Unit ICU. In the coming days, the hospital will have a total of  beds, with  in the ICU. On May , another field hospital will open in the west of the city with a patient capacity. The Chilean Ministry of Health confirmed on Saturday that the country has confirmed , coronavirus cases, along with  related deaths. The ministry said  new cases and seven more deaths were reported in the last  hours. The Health Ministrys undersecretary of assistance networks, Arturo Zuniga, said  people were treated in the ICU,  of whom had been put on ventilators. Chilean President Sebastian Pinera on Saturday said the arrival of  new ventilators with life support functions will help the country combat COVID. We are receiving  new mechanical ventilators, which means that we will have more than  mechanical ventilators available ... We can assure all of our compatriots that we are going to take all necessary measures at the right time, the president said. The Peruvian Ministry of Health reported on Saturday that the caseload increased to ,, with  deaths. The ministry said , new cases were registered in the country in the last  hours. Peruvian Health Minister Victor Zamora said all hospitals and health centers across the nation are on high alert due to the high spike in infections. So far, Argentina has confirmed , infection cases, with  deaths. The Argentine government on Saturday decided to extend the lockdown until May . The quarantine has preserved our lives and the lives of others, and even though we have taken important steps, we are far from having resolved the issue. We are still in the midst of a pandemic that has devastated the world, said Argentinas President Alberto Fernandez.