ChinaEurope railway helping continent beat contagion
2020/4/26 11:26
Performances of Hanfu, or traditional Chinese costume, will feature during the animation festival. .gov.cn An exciting animation festival will be staged during the May Day holiday on May  at Happy Valley amusement park in Liangjiang New Area  located in Southwest Chinas Chongqing municipality C according to the organizers. In addition to an exhibition of famous animations, there will be costume players or cosplayers, dubbers, performances in Hanfu or traditional Chinese clothing, as well as a live concert. Due to novel coronarivus epidemic prevention and control measures, Happy Valley will only open its outdoor play facilities to the public, including over  fun rides roller coaster rides, flume ride and carrousels. Tourists can scan QR codes in front of Happy Valleys entrance to buy tickets. .gov.cn Tourists should buy tickets on Happy Valleys official WeChat accounts, websites, online ticketing platforms or scan QR codes at the entrance to Happy Valley. All the tourists must register their personal information, measure body temperatures, wear masks and scan identity cards before entering Happy Valley. Happy Valley will receive up to , tourists per day during epidemic prevention and control, as well as disinfect the entire area every day. Various outdoor rides open to the public at Happy Valley. .gov.cn Advance bookings for oneday tickets for university students are on sale at  yuan . per person before April , valid any day from May . Adults buying full price oneday tickets can bring a child under . meters at no charge on May . Visitors dressing in cosplay costumes can enjoy the bargain price ticket of  yuan per person on weekends in April and during the May Day holiday. Opening times  am to  pm  am to  pm on May . Address No  Jinyu Avenue, Liangjiang New Area, Chongqing Transportation Rail transit line  to Happy Valley station Rail transit line  to Jiazhou Road station and transfer to bus  Rail transit line  to Jintong Road station and transfer to bus  Rail transit line  to north square of Chongqing North Railway Station and transfer to bus  Telephone   