Southeast Asia grateful for Chinese help in crisis
2020/4/26 9:40
Alberto Rabal, cashier at a DiaGo supermarket, wears a protective shield and face mask as he tends to customers following the outbreak of the coronavirus disease COVID in Madrid, Spain, April , .  MADRID  Spaniards will be allowed out for exercise and to take walks from next weekend, Prime Minister Pedro Sanchez said Saturday, in the latest move to ease one of the worlds tightest coronavirus lockdowns. And the government will on Tuesday unveil its broader lockdown exit plan that will likely be put into action in the second half of May, he said. If the pandemic keeps evolving positively as it has been doing until now, from May , individual physical activity will be permitted and walks with the people you live with, he said. Unlike most other countries in the world, since imposing a lockdown on March , Spain has not allowed anyone out for walks, jogs or bike rides, allowing them to leave home only to buy food or medicine or to briefly walk the dog, other than for a medical emergency. Children have not been allowed out under any circumstances but that will change on Sunday when they will be allowed out for up to an hour a day, accompanied by one parent, to walk, run or play in an area no further than a kilometre from their home. Spains state of emergency was extended this week until midnight on May , with Sanchez saying the transition back to some sort of normality would be gradual. We have to act with the utmost prudence. We have sacrificed too much... to risk it all by moving too fast, he said. We dont have a foolproof guidebook, we dont have a defined roadmap. No country in the world has fully gone through the process of deescalation leading to the new reality. Were not going to suddenly resume all economic and social activities, well do it in stages, he said. Saturdays announcement came a day after Spain registered  deaths  its lowest daily number of COVID fatalities in four weeks. Fridays figures were an important landmark in Spains fight against the virus, with the daily number of recoveries outpacing the number of new infections for the first time since the start of the pandemic. AFP