Chongqing to hold animation festival during May Day holiday
2020/4/26 7:31
A woman looks out of her apartment window during an unprecedented lockdown across the country imposed to slow the outbreak of the coronavirus disease, in Venice, Italy, April , .  ROME  In another sign of encouragement, Italy reported  new deaths related to COVID in the past  hours, the smallest daily increase since March , fresh figures showed on Saturday. Saturdays number of new deaths was five fewer from Fridays , according to figures from the countrys Civil Protection Department. It raised the nationwide fatalities to , since the pandemic broke out in northern Italy earlier this year. Total active infections stood at ,, down by  cases compared to the previous day, according to the latest data. This is the sixth consecutive daily drop in the number of active infections in Italy. Of the positive cases, , are in intensive care down by  patients compared to Friday, , are hospitalized down by  patients and the rest, or . percent, are in isolation at home. There were , more recoveries compared to Friday, bringing the nationwide total to ,. The total number of confirmed cases  combining active infections, fatalities and recoveries  rose to ,, a daily increase of , against Friday. Italy entered into a national lockdown on March  to contain the pandemic. The lockdown, which is expected to last until May , will be followed by a socalled Phase Two, which involves the gradual resumption of social, economic and productive activities, the Italian government has explained. ANTIBODY TESTING TO START MAY  A woman buys a rose, symbol of the patron of Venice Saint Mark, on his feast day during a lockdown across the country imposed to slow the outbreak of the COVID, in Venice, Italy, April , .  Speaking at a nationally televised press conference earlier in the day, Extraordinary Commissioner for the Coronavirus Emergency Domenico Arcuri said that winning the war against the new coronavirus will depend on individual decisions once the national lockdown ends on May . No government decree will give us a definitive victory over the virus  that will depend solely on us and our behavior, Arcuri said. I strongly invite you to behave ... with determination, a spirit of sacrifice, and a sense of belonging to the national community, said the commissioner. Arcuri said that blood testing for antibodies to the new coronavirus  to find out what percentage, if any, of the population has unknowingly come in contact with the virus at some point  will begin on May . The serological survey is a key part of Italys public health strategy to contain the virus during Phase Two of the emergency, when businesses will gradually reopen and isolation measures will be eased after the end of the lockdown. The competition for serological tests has concluded today and  companies participated, Arcuri said. The winner ... is offering the test for free, he said. So we have obtained the best offer on the existing market while at the same time without burdening state coffers. Starting on May , we will begin our survey on the first , citizens, which we have organized into a representative sample, Arcuri explained. A family with the Italian flag celebrates Liberation Day on an apartment balcony following the outbreak of the coronavirus disease in Milan, April , .  INVESTING IN FACE MASK PRODUCTION Arcuri went on to describe the governments recent efforts to encourage domestic production of protective face masks. As of last night,  companies have received government approval for their investment programs, and five of these have signed a contract with us and are supplying us with face masks, Arcuri said. The government has also contracted two Italian companies to manufacture  machines capable of producing , to , masks per day, said the commissioner. The government has not only provided incentives to convert existing factories or set up new factories, but it is also purchasing the machines needed to produce these masks and we will be able to produce at least  million of them a day, Arcuri said. The state ... is investing powerfully in men, facilities, technologies and equipment with a simple goal  that of guaranteeing to all citizens a fundamental right enshrined in our Constitution the right to health, said Arcuri. A great country cannot depend forever on imports and trade wars  we are a G nation and the second manufacturing power in Europe, the commissioner noted. Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte last month named Arcuri a commissioner with ample powers to ramp up the manufacturing and distribution of intensive care machines and medical equipment during the coronavirus emergency. He also sits on a Committee of Experts nominated by Conte in a decree issued on April . The Committees job is to come up with measures and strategies for the gradual resumption of ... social, economic and productive activities in Phase Two. Arcuri also serves as the CEO of Invitalia, an agency owned by the Ministry of Economic Development that manages national incentives for new businesses. People celebrate Liberation Day on an apartment balcony following the outbreak of the coronavirus disease in Milan, Italy, April , .  LOCKDOWN MAKES GAMBLING ADDICTS MORE AWARE Also on Saturday, the Ministry of Health said that the national lockdown has caused an increase in the number of calls to a National Institute of Health ISS helpline for gambling addicts. In this country of about  million inhabitants,  million people gamble and of these, . million are classifiable as gambling addicts, according to the ministry. There are more calls from gamblers as opposed to their family members, and calls that used to last  minutes now last an average of  minutes, commented Roberta Pacifici, who directs the ISS Center for Addictions and Doping. The awareness of having a problem has increased with the lockdown, she said. So this could become an opportunity to try to change.