Macerata receives support from Taicang
2020/4/25 18:17
A demonstrator wearing a face mask with the US flag design attends a vehicle caravan protest to call on state and local officials to reopen the economy, during the COVID outbreak, near Los Angeles City Hall, Los Angeles, California, US, April , .  Editors note This news column showcases stories from around the world that bring a touch of positivity to the fight against the deadly coronavirus. NEW YORKIn the weeks since the coronavirus pandemic put the world into a tailspin, the humble face mask has evolved into a fashion statement. Now available in a myriad of styles and patterns, the ubiquitous facial covering has quickly replaced the Tshirt as the coolest way for nearly anyonefrom firefighters and National Basketball Association fans to punk rockers and cat loversto tell the world about what they love. People are getting creative with these masks. I love the individuality, said Johnny Pisano, a touring musician who has added masks to a line of Tshirts he sells online to his fans. His masks feature an image of Pisano performing his signature stage moveleaping into a split while playing bass guitar. In the United States,  percent of adults reported wearing masks out in public, according to an ABCIpsos survey released on April . They are now mandatory in many US grocery stores, doctors clinics and wine shops, and many are following official orders to wear a mask when they leave home and cannot maintain social distancing to avoid disease spread. The Custom Shop in Glastonbury, Connecticut, a drapery and upholstery workroom shut down by the pandemic, is helping to fill the new demand by using its fabrics to make masks. Requests have come in for flamepatterned fabrics for firefighters, lighthouses for nearby Lighthouse Surgery Center, and kittens for cat lovers, said shop manager Jose Moncada. Even the NBA and Womens National Basketball Association have begun selling cloth face coverings sporting logos from all  mens teams and all  womens teams for , promising proceeds will benefit Feeding America in the United States and Second Harvest in Canada. If the mask rule stretches into the fall fashion season in New York, the pandemic epicenter as well as the nations trendsetting capital, some commentators expect coronavirus couture to go entirely black, a color favored by the citys arbiters of taste. Others predict the hottest masks in these unpredictable times will restore the idea that bright is beautiful, catching looks with flowery fabrics, python skins and trendy logos. Its a little power moment. Masks are going to be that powerful health accessory that adds to your total look, said Avril Graham, executive fashion and beauty editor at Harpers Bazaar. You might even be having evening, glamorous masks made to accessorize a gown or cocktail dress. Because there will be social distancing for months to come. Agencies Via Xinhua