Doha, Riyadh bid to host  Asian Games
2020/4/25 8:12
The United States House of Representatives approved a new  billion economic stimulus bill that will provide more money for hospitals and small businesses.  The United States House of Representatives approved a new  billion economic stimulus bill that will provide more money for hospitals and small businesses as job losses surge due to the COVID pandemic and companies call for more support. With some lawmakers wearing face masks and some wearing gloves, members of the House returned to Capitol Hill on Thursday and gave an overwhelming  approval to the relief bill that was already passed by the Senate. US President Donald Trump said that he was grateful for the bills approval. He said he would sign the measure on Friday. The package will provide more than  billion in additional funding for the Paycheck Protection Program to boost small business lending, as well as  billion for hospitals and  billion for virus testing. The PPP, designed to provide loans to small businesses to keep their workers on the payroll during the COVID outbreak, ran out of money last week. In a previously approved . trillion relief package,  billion had been allocated for the PPP. The new relief package comes as the novel coronavirus outbreak continues to sweep the nation and devastate the economy. About . million workers filed claims for unemployment benefits for the week ended April , the US Labor Department reported on Thursday, with small businesses struggling to retain their employees. About  million peopleequivalent to about one in five fulltime workers in the UShave filed jobless claims since midMarch, when the pandemic led states to issue stayathome orders to limit the spread of the disease and much of the economy shut down. The novel coronavirus had killed some , people in the US and infected over ,, according to a late Thursday tally by Johns Hopkins University. Globally, the COVID pandemic had killed nearly , people while infecting more than . million as of Friday, according to the World Health Organization. As the US House approved the  billion relief bill, the next funding battle in Congress will be for state governments hard hit by the pandemic. Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, a Republican from Kentucky, said states could use the bankruptcy route rather than receiving money from the federal governmenta suggestion denounced by the governors of New York and New Jersey, two states pounded by COVID. Current law prohibits states from filing for bankruptcy, although cities and other local governments can use Chapter  bankruptcy to restructure debt if allowed by their states. US Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said he is aware of concerns about the spiraling federal debt from pandemicrelated funding bills passed by Congress, but he said interest rates are low and the need to boost the economy during the shutdown calls for quick action. Also on Thursday, US VicePresident Mike Pence said that much of the coronavirus pandemic hitting the United States could be behind us by late next month, and that  states have formal plans to reopen their state economies. From Tennessee and Texas to Ohio and Montana, a handful of governors around the country have announced plans to swiftly allow a return to business in some workplaces that had been ordered closed in an attempt to curb the spread of the coronavirus. The US state of Georgia allowed businesses like gyms, hair salons, bowling alleys and tattoo and massage parlors to resume business on Friday, followed by movie theaters and restaurants next week. Those plans have drawn fire from public health experts and other governors who warn that a premature easing of stayathome orders and business closuresimposed over the past five weeks could trigger a renewed surge in coronavirus cases. Meanwhile, in nursing homes and longterm care facilities across the US, there have been more than , coronavirusrelated deaths, making them a hotbed for infections and prompting several states to take action to prevent more fatalities. This happens to be a virus that attacks elderly people, and nursing homes are the place of the elderly people, so this is a very intense situation for nursing homes, said New York Governor Andrew Cuomo at his daily press briefing on Thursday. COVID has ravaged at least , longterm care facilities nationwide, infecting , residents and staff, according to The Wall Street Journal. Chen Yingqun in Beijing, Xinhua and other agencies contributed to this story.