Israeli annexation could destroy hopes
2020/4/24 22:05
Photo provided to chinadaily.com.cn Beijing Wtown, a tourist attraction modeled on a classic Chinese water town, announced it is reopening to the public on Thursday after completing relevant safety measures in the wake of the novel coronavirus outbreak. Upon approved to reopen by the Beijing government, Wtown said it has introduced strict measures for epidemic prevention and control under the guidance of the Beijing Bureau of Culture and Tourism. Its outdoor sightseeing facilities will fully open, while hotels, homestays and catering services will open gradually, according to Wtown. With its philosophy of bringing care and love to all tourists, Wtown is providing dedicated services and has developed a set of improved service measures, it said. To avoid crowds gathering, Wtown is strictly controlling the number of visitors and requiring them to wear face masks and keep a safe distance of at least one meter. Guests will also have to sit apart while riding in electric sightseeing vehicles and cable cars. Photo provided to chinadaily.com.cn The attraction will regularly sterilize its tourist service center, hotel reception, service counter and facilities used by customers, Wtown said. Wtowns intelligent information system provides zerocontact services for customers including online payment, entry to the attraction via QR code scanning and audio guides. Located in Miyun district of Beijing and also known as Gubei Water town, Wtown is home to natural tranquil scenery featuring the ancient culture of North China with its characteristic courtyard buildings. To welcome tourists back, Wtown said it has carried out several upgrades to provide visitors with more traditional cultural experiences. These include ancient cloth printing and dyeing, the craft of kite making and traditional products such as rattan items and embroidered shoes. Located at the foot of the Simatai Great Wall, the only original section of the Great Wall dating back to the Ming Dynasty , which itself reopened on April , Wtown visitors can enjoy ancient structures and a comfortable environment surrounded Yuanyang Reservoir. During the reopening period, Beijing Wtown has launched discounts for tickets of up to  percent for a limited time, the attraction said.