US VP Summer demise for virus
2020/4/24 11:38
? US VicePresident Mike Pence holds a microphone as he addresses plant employees over an intercom system during a tour of a GE Healthcare manufacturing facility during the global coronavirus disease COVID outbreak in Madison, Wisconsin, US on April , .  US VicePresident Mike Pence said Thursday that much of the coronavirus pandemic hitting the United States could be behind us by late next month. Were getting there, America, he said. Pence made the comments at the daily White House Coronavirus Task Force briefing. In a radio interview earlier Thursday, Pence predicted that the epidemic will be largely behind us by Memorial Day, May . Pence also said that  states have formal plans to reopen their state economies. US President Donald Trump said at the briefing that he was grateful for the House earlier Thursday approving a  billion stimulus bill that provides more funds for hospitals and will rescue a depleted smallbusiness loan program and that he would sign the measure as early as Thursday evening. At the briefing, Trump introduced Bill Bryan, an official from the Department of Homeland Security, to report on what his agency has learned about the survival of the coronavirus in warmer weather. He said the agencys research has found that it lives for a shorter time in warmer, more humid conditions and when exposed to direct sunlight. Our most striking observation to date is the powerful effect that solar light appears to have on killing the virus, both surfaces and in the air, Bryan said. Weve seen a similar effect with both temperature and humidity as well where increasing the temperature and humidity or both is generally less favorable to the virus. But Bryan warned, it would be irresponsible for us to say that we feel the summer will totally kill the virus. Bryan also said research has shown the virus dies in bleach in about five minutes and in isopropyl alcohol in  seconds, with no manipulation, no rubbing  only spraying it on and leaving it. You rub it and it goes away even faster, Bryan said. Dr Anthony Fauci, director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases and a member of the coronavirus task force who wasnt at the briefing, has previously said that he wouldnt count on warmer weather to stop the spread. With some lawmakers wearing face masks and some wearing gloves, members of the House returned to Capitol Hill on Thursday and approved the relief bill that provides more funds for struggling hospitals. It also will rescue a smallbusiness loan program that was quickly depleted by companies impacted by the coronavirus pandemic. The legislation approved by the House includes  billion to help overwhelmed hospitals and  billion for a new coronavirus testing program, two provisions Democrats pushed for in negotiations. Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer said the money for testing requires the Trump administration to produce a national plan on how it will increase testing across the country. At the news briefing, Trump reiterated that the US has done more testing than any country in the world. Were doing a great job on testing, he said. He was asked if he agreed with comments made by Fauci who told Time on Thursday that he isnt confident the US is where it needs to be on testing. We are doing better, and I think we are going to get there, but we are not there yet, Fauci told Time. Trump said the nations testing was very advanced and that he didnt agree with what Fauci said. I think were doing a great job on testing. I dont agree  if he said that, I dont agree with him, Trump said. About . million workers filed claims for unemployment benefits for the week ended April , the US Labor Department reported Thursday. That is down from . million claims filed for the week ended April . About  million people  or  in  Americans  have filed jobless claims since midMarch. That was when the coronavirus pandemic led states to issue stayathome orders to limit the spread of the disease, and much of the economy shut down. In New York, Governor Andrew Cuomo said Thursday that results from random testing of New Yorkers showed that the coronavirus outbreak is widespread across the state, infecting about . million people. The testing started Sunday when New York health officials randomly tested people at various locations across the state. The goal was to help understand who has built up immunity to the virus and where it is most prevalent. The Navy hospital ship USNS Comfort will leave New York City after it floated for three weeks mostly empty of patients. The Comfort and its , hospital beds and  operating rooms sailed into New York late last month but was sparsely used. Cuomo met with Trump on Tuesday and they agreed the ship can be sent elsewhere. The Federal Reserve on Thursday announced it will reveal every month the names of companies that borrow under its massive emergency lending programs, as it faces intense pressure to be transparent about its use of bailout money.