, HK students take DSE exams after coronavirus delay
2020/4/24 11:29
Candidates line up to have their documents and body temperatures checked before entering an exam venue at Tseung Kwan O Government Secondary School, Hong Kong, for the Hong Kong Diploma of Secondary Education Examination, April , . The HKDSE, postponed due to the COVID outbreak, kicked off on Friday. CALVIN NGCHINA DAILY HONG KONG  Hong Kongs longawaited university entrance exam began Friday morning amid tight measures against the transmission of COVID caused by a novel coronavirus. The Diploma of Secondary Education exams, originally scheduled to kick off on March , were postponed due to a sudden surge of imported coronavirus cases in midMarch. More than , candidates are sitting the exams this year. Chinese and English oral tests were scrapped in light of the pandemic. Stringent antiinfection measures are in place at  test venues located at secondary schools across the territory. All examinees and some , exam invigilators are required to wear masks desks are kept at least . meters apart any candidate who has a fever will be banned from entering the exam venue. Long queues of students were formed at the entrances of  exam centers hosting the visual arts written exam before they were opened at  am. Candidates are also required to complete health declaration forms before entering. As of  pm on Friday afternoon, six out of the , candidates failed to take the tests due to fever or other illnesses, according to exam authorities. A total of  candidates have withdrawn due to illness, being outside the city, or having other study plans. Chief Executive Carrie Lam Cheng Yuetngor and Secretary for Education Kevin Yeung Yunhung gave their encouragement to the candidates on their official social media pages. Lam said on Wednesday that she hoped the candidates would rise to the challenge and do well in the exam despite the distraction of the pandemic. Yeung wrote on Thursday that concerns about coronavirus outbreak would add pressure on students taking the exam. The DSE exams will run through May . Exam results will be out on July . Tommy Yuen contributed to this report.