Central SOEs helping Africa fight pandemic
2020/4/24 10:08
An Algerian airport employee poses for a photo while unloading medical supplies from China State Construction Engineering Corp at Houari Boumediene International Airport in Algiers, capital of Algeria, on March . Photo provided to China Daily Chinas centrally administered Stateowned enterprises are strengthening efforts to play a bigger role in helping the world battle the COVID pandemic. In Algeria, a plane laden with , surgical masks, , protective gowns and  ventilators landed in the capital Algiers recently. Donated by China State Construction Engineering Corp, the supplies have provided timely help for the country. The medical supplies came at a time when Algeria lacks medical equipment amid the pandemic. China didnt give up on us, said Benbachir Lamia, a project engineer at CSCEC. Ahcene Boukhelfa, Algerian ambassador to China, said CSCECs efforts will further boost the longterm relationship between China and Algeria, and he spoke highly of the companys contributions to Algerias economic development over the past  years. Facing the increasingly severe pandemic in Ethiopia, CSCEC decided to refurbish part of the wards in a local hospital to help contain the outbreak there. A team of more than  Chinese and local employees from CSCEC designed and helped build the facility in East Africa, which took only five days to complete. As a major investment and construction group, CSCEC currently has branches and projects in  countries and regions. As the coronavirus outbreak intensifies overseas, the firm said that prevention and control of the pandemic should be a top priority for its overseas branches. In March, CSCEC set up a pandemic prevention and control working group to oversee related work, including organization, coordination and supervision, for the groups overseas branches. Chinese centrally administered SOEs like CSCEC have shown their strength, speed and high sense of responsibility in helping with global pandemic prevention and control, said Liu Yu, economic and commercial counselor at the Chinese embassy in Ethiopia. Apart from donations, centrally administered SOEs are ramping up production of medical equipment urgently needed in many countries. It took only  hours for Sinopharm Groups Jiayuan subsidiary to deliver respirators to Morocco. The unit pulled together resources from eastern and central China and equipped emergency power conversion tools that could be put to immediate use in hospitals. Sinopharm is also stepping up efforts to assist overseas subsidiaries of Chinas centrally administered SOEs to maintain necessary supplies to help stabilize the global supply chain. The company has proactively contacted central SOEs to express its willingness to assist in the purchase of antiCOVID supplies, and has received feedback from more than  central SOEs overseas branches in over  countries and regions. Stateowned China General Nuclear Power Corp has donated , surgical masks to its overseas partner EDF Energy, as well as , medical masks to Framatome SA and , surgical masks and , goggles to Orano SA, both in France. Another Stateowned company, Sinoma Energy Conservation Ltd, donated , surgical masks to over  overseas clients and partners. Donations were also made by China Cosco Shipping Corp Ltd, which donated medical supplies worth , yuan ,, including , surgical masks and  protective suits, to Italy. Foreign Ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian said earlier at a news conference that China is offering as much medical assistance as possible to other countries in need while making full efforts to prevent and contain the coronavirus in China. Sinopec Jianghan Salt Chemical Hubei Co Ltd exported , metric tons of a disinfecting bleach agent to over  countries including Italy, France and Australia, despite the company is also facing pressure in resuming production as it is located in hardhit Hubei province. China Railway Construction Corp Intl Ltd also constructed makeshift hospitals in Trinidad and Tobago to help with coronavirus treatment and control. While helping the world combat the pandemic, centrally administered SOEs are also resuming work in an orderly manner so as to ensure the supply chain for foreign clients. YAPP Automotive Parts Co Ltd, a subsidiary of State Development and Investment Corp, is also doing its part. As the third largest supplier of vehicle fuel storage systems in the world, the firm is resuming production step by step, especially in terms of its exports. Its Shanghai factory, which is responsible for components of major automakers including SAIC Volkswagen, purchased medical preventive supplies to ensure worker safety. Its Chengdu, Sichuan province factory has been successfully exporting fuel tanks to France during the pandemic. A consortium of SOEs are resuming operations in different regions and industries and working on several projects during the outbreak, said Xia Qingfeng, director of the Bureau of Publicity of the Stateowned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission of the State Council.