UK govt to study spread of virus
2020/4/24 9:33
? Britains Health Secretary Matt Hancock speaks during a daily news conference on the coronavirus disease COVID outbreak, at  Downing Street in London, Britain on April , .  Survey of , homes aims to find out who has had it, who is immune The British government kicked off a huge study on Thursday that will track the novel coronavirus status of , families in England and ascertain how the virus and the COVID disease it causes are impacting the general population. Volunteers taking part in the research organized by the Office for National Statistics and the Department of Health will regularly contribute swabs of saliva that will be tested to show the extent of infections. One of the studys main aims is to establish how many people may be immune to the virus, information that will help in the eventual easing of lockdown restrictions, said Health Secretary Matt Hancock. Together, these results will help us better understand the spread of the virus to date, predict the future trajectory, and inform future action we take, including, crucially, the development of groundbreaking tests and treatments, he said. Those taking part, a representative sample of the UK population, will initially be tested once a week for five weeks, and then once a month for a year. The first results should be known in a month. An antibody test developed by scientists at University of Oxford will be part of the study. It will identify people who have had COVID. Professor Derrick Crook, one of those behind the test, told the BBC it should have regulatory approval for widespread use by May . The test will help the government hit its target of carrying out , tests a day, a goal it has struggled to meet. Currently, around , people are being tested daily, and the theoretical maximum is ,. The UK has also been wrestling with the pros and cons of recommending, or even enforcing, the wearing of face masks in public. The idea has both supporters and detractors, with the mayor of London, Sadiq Khan, saying they should be compulsory in the capital, and the World Health Organization saying their positive contribution has not yet been proven. Germany, however, has thrown its support behind masks and made them compulsory attire. The nation, which allowed bookshops, florists, fashion stores and car dealerships to reopen on Monday, along with small retailers, had recorded , deaths linked to COVID as of Thursday a relatively small total, considering its population of  million. Berlin, which has been lauded for its handling of the pandemic, approved human trials for potential vaccines this week. The nation is believed to be close to a breakthrough, as is the United States, the UK, and China. The German trials, the fourth in the world so far, will involve  volunteers and be overseen by the regulator, the Paul Ehrlich Institute. Russia recorded , new novel coronavirus cases on Wednesday, taking its total to ,, according to the nations novel coronavirus response center. The nation had  deaths. Spain saw its number of cases increase by , on Thursday, and deaths increase by , to ,, the countrys Health Ministry said. The numbers suggest the situation there is easing. The apparently stabilizing situation in much of Europe has led critics to question the UK governments handling of the pandemic. Keir Starmer, the new leader of the opposition Labour Party, said in Parliament on Wednesday the nation is way behind other European countries. We were slow into lockdown, slow on testing, slow on protective equipment, and now slow to take up these offers from British firms, he said in reference to reports that companies wanting to make personal protective equipment, or PPE, had been ignored. But Hancock, the health secretary, disputed claims of slow progress, especially in the area of testing. During Thursdays daily briefing, he announced that, as of Friday, all essential workers and all members of their households will be able to book a test themselves on the governments website, to see whether they have the virus. I want to make it as easy as possible for people to get a test, he said. And he said widespread testing will be a key part of the governments postlockdown plan to control the virus. He also insisted the government will not rush to end the lockdown, because an early exit and a second wave of infections would be bad for our nations health and our nations economy. And he said , people will be hired to trace novel coronavirus infections when the lockdown is eventually lifted and that new software will also help track people with infections. The UK reported another  deaths on Thursday, taking its total to ,. The Financial Times, meanwhile, said the UKs service sector and its manufacturing output are contracting more quickly than at any time in the  years of the IHS MarkitCIPS flash composite purchasing managers index. And a senior official at the Bank of England has said in a speech that the lockdown has delivered the nations most profound economic shock in a very long time. Jan Vlieghe, a member of the banks committee that sets interest rates, said in a speech reported by The Guardian newspaper Based on the early indicators, and based on the experience in other countries that were hit somewhat earlier than the UK, it seems that we are experiencing an economic contraction that is faster and deeper than anything we have seen in the past century, or possibly several centuries. Meanwhile, research conducted by the paper suggests people from black, Asian and minority ethnic backgrounds in the UK have been dying in disproportionately high numbers. The paper says people from the BAME demographic comprise  percent of hospital deaths but only  percent of the population prompting the Labour Party to call for answers. ?