Driving the brands behind the lens
2020/4/24 6:38
While many people are stuck at home during the coronavirus outbreak, idling and resorting to bingewatching, Nausheen Chen is determined not to waste time, and is busily shooting videos. She and her crew are cashing in on the video business that got a shot in the arm as more people start working from home to enhance social distancing practices. Videos have become the most powerful tools for marketing, Chen said. In , Chen cofounded Zen and Zany  a video strategy and production startup helping Chinese brands create videos for Western markets. Within two years, they managed to successfully complete more than  projects. A video campaign the team launched for a portable scanner brand has raked in more than HK million . million on crowdfunding platform Indiegogo so far, while another project  a selfcleaning robot cleaner  attracted investments of more than HK. million. Growing opportunities Online videos are playing an increasing role in tomorrows advertising world as the industry sees continuous user growth, fueled by the COVID pandemic. With people mostly confined indoors at the height of the outbreak, shortvideo platforms in China saw a sharp rise in user activity in the first two months of this year, according to a report by QuestMobile, a mobile internet big data company. The report shows viewers spent an average of  minutes on shortvideo apps each day  up  percent from the same period last year. Tencent Video  a popular longvideo content website  said its average daily usage time during the period jumped . percent, while the daily active user amount of wellknown shortvideo content provider Kuaishou surged  percent. For the global market, shortvideo platforms are also gaining popularity in terms of market advertising as coronavirus infections continue to spread across borders and continents. Shani Rosenfelder, head of Content and Mobile Insights at AppsFlyer, a global leader in mobile attribution and marketing analytics, said its latest performance index released recently shows the surge in TikTok Ads continues. TikTok Ads is now the fourthlargest media source for nongaming apps although Google tops the universal power ranking, he said. With the TikTok app sweeping across the globe, the demand for advertising on the platform surged last year, and is increasing its share worldwide  from China and India to North America and Western Europe, Rosenfelder said. Seizing the growing opportunity, Chen said shes turning Zen and Zany into a morecomprehensive visual strategy consultant rather than just a producer of videos. A startup now needs different kinds of videos for different parts of campaigns through different platforms to different types of audience, she said. To mix with business Video campaigns nowadays have developed into many categories, such as howto videos, brand image videos, influencers doing fun testing videos, and managementteam videos, she said. China totally embraces videos as a whole, especially the new wave of short videos, but its still entertainment for most people, while the Western world has really figured out how to create the mix for business, Chen said. A growing number of Chinese firms are up to the strategy when going global like their Western counterparts, she said. The coronavirus outbreak has strengthened the resolution of some of these firms to invest more in visual strategy, but those who were hesitant have decided to step back as the virus polarized companies, Chen said. Shes glad to see the change because it means the startup has more time to get these firms prepared for a bigger product launch in one or two months. Her team is using the stayathome period to do market research for these clients. Chen said her company had planned to film for one of its major tech clients a few days after the Spring Festival holiday. They were fully prepared, but the coronavirus brought everything to a standstill. Their actors got stranded during their vacation, forcing the studio to close. By the end of February, Chens studio reopened and was lucky to find replacements for the shooting crew. Everyone is very careful, wearing masks at the site and I was even wearing gloves, but were all happy to start work again, Chen said. As a selffunded startup whose clients are also mostly startups with limited budgets, she believes keeping the team as lean as possible will help the company ride out the crisis. gracechinadailyhk.com ?