Beijing reports another new local infection
2021/8/4 11:07
Ledsiel Garcia, a pharmacy technician with DeliveRxd Pharmacy based in Tampa, administers the Johnson  Johnson coronavirus disease COVID vaccine to Gerry Rechicar at her home in St Petersburg, Florida, US, July , .  Fear of the highly transmittable Delta coronavirus variant is causing every US state to report an increase in its average number of vaccinations. The national rate of people receiving their first dose is up by more than  percent, and last week vaccination rates increased by more than  percent in adults and nearly  percent in ages , according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention CDC data. The uptick pushed the national vaccination average to more than , doses administered each day  up by more than  percent in the last two weeks. In a move to put pressure on more people to get vaccinated, New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio announced Tuesday that the city will require proof of at least one dose of a coronavirus vaccine for workers and customers for indoor dining, gyms, entertainment and performances, including Broadway, making New York the first US city to require proof. If youre unvaccinated, unfortunately, you will not be able to participate in many things, de Blasio said. If you want to participate in our society fully, youve got to get vaccinated. People will be able to continue to dine outdoors without showing proof of vaccination. City officials plan to spend the next few weeks soliciting feedback on the policy before launching it on Aug  and starting to enforce it Sept . About  percent of adults in the city are fully vaccinated, according to city data, and about  percent of New York City residents arent yet fully vaccinated. The sevenday average number of confirmed and probable daily coronavirus cases is now over , in New York City, according to figures this week. That figure was less than  at the start of July and peaked at more than , in early January, according to city statistics. Tyson Foods, the biggest US meat supplier by sales, said it would require COVID vaccinations for its US workforce of about , and would offer a  bonus to its frontline workers as an incentive. Meatpacking workers were among the hardest hit as infections began to spread in the US in spring , with tens of thousands of plant workers infected and more than  deaths, according to labor union estimates. Despite the increase in vaccinations, as of Friday nearly , patients with COVID were in hospitals across the country, up nearly  percent in the last month. The sevenday average of daily new coronavirus cases is up by more than  percent over the previous week, US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Director Dr Rochelle Walensky said Monday. With vaccination rates rising but still below where they need to be to slow or stop the spread of the virus, according to health officials, many local leaders are turning back to masks to protect their populations. Louisiana has restored its statewide indoor mask mandate as of Wednesday amid a surge in Deltacaused infections and hospitalizations that Democratic Governor John Bel Edwards calls the worst phase of the pandemic so far. It applies to all people age  and older at indoor public places regardless of vaccination status and will remain in place until at least Sept . Louisiana has one of the lowest vaccination rates in the country. Fortythree percent of residents have had at least one dose of a vaccine, and  percent are fully inoculated. Dr Catherine ONeal, who runs Our Lady of the Lake Hospital in Baton Rouge, Louisianas largest hospital said, there were no more beds left. She said COVID hospitalizations had risen from  to  at the facility in two weeks. But in Florida, Broward County public schools backtracked on their mask mandate Monday, saying the district would comply with the governors executive order that prevents schools from requiring facial coverings. The move comes after Governor Ron DeSantis signed an executive order that would allow the state Board of Education to withhold funding to any district that compels students to wear masks when they return to school. DeSantis said he wants parents to be able to decide if their children wear masks. Florida is one of five states  along with Louisiana, Texas, California and Missouri that make up nearly half of the new cases reported in the past week, according to data from Johns Hopkins University. In Florida,  percent of ICU beds are now occupied with COVID patients, according to state health officials.