Expert offers Labor Day health tips for safe holiday
2020/4/23 20:44
Children play at the Beijing International Flower Port on April , . Photo by Wei Xiaohaochinadaily.com.cn As this years Labor Day holiday, which runs from May  to , is approaching and many Chinese are making travel plans, a public health expert said it is necessary to take precautions when traveling to areas where new novel coronavirus infections were detected recently. The elderly, people with chronic diseases and pregnant women also are discouraged from taking trips. Feng Luzhao, a researcher with the Chinese Center for Disease Control and Prevention, said on Thursday that it is believed to be safe to visit regions where no new cases have been reported for a long period, as the domestic outbreak has been basically stemmed. However, some parts of China are still registering new imported cases or locally transmitted infections. The public should remain vigilant and be aware of the risk of contracting novel coronavirus, he said. According to official data released by the National Health Commission, Heilongjiang, Guangdong, and Shaanxi provinces, as well as Beijing and Shanghai, have all reported new infections in the past few weeks. Feng said travelers should avoid popular scenic spots or peak visiting hours as much as possible, and refrain from taking part in entertainment events in enclosed spaces. Before traveling to other cities, the public is advised to get in touch with officials in their destinations in advance to learn about local disease control policies and make preparations accordingly. Masks and hand sanitizers are also recommended during transit. It is also important to wear facial masks and practicing hand hygiene when taking flights, trains and other public transportation. Eating and drinking on board should be reduced, he said. Feng also recommended people should keep physical distance between each other when visiting tourist attractions and remember to open windows for better ventilation when checking into a hotel.