Belgiums Liege airport a center for European pandemic freight distribution
2020/4/23 18:10
Chinese medical supplies for Belgium are unloaded at the Liege Airport in Liege, Belgium, March , .? A large quantity of preventive goods donated by Chinese organizations, including masks and test kits, are being transported to Belgiums Liege airport and will be delivered to other parts of Europe. Among the few airfreight airports that are operational  across Europe, Liege airport has handled . million masks, over , protective garments, , face shields and , test kits for novel coronavirus, all of which come from China, according to Cainiao, Alibabas smart logistics arm, which established a warehouse there in  to facilitate crossborder business. These donations, coming from various Chinese entities, leverage the geographical advantage of Belgium as a hub connecting other economies in the continent, said Wang Dandi, a manager at Cainiaos Liege warehouse, which is just  kilometers from the airport. She mentioned that Slovenia even dispatched military aircraft to fetch donated goods from China. The administrative green light was given in just one day by the local customs authorities. People at the receiving end also highly cherish these donations, said Wang. For instance, our couriers normally keep us informed of their locations and the estimated time of arrival for these lifesaving goods to reach the hospitals. All donations are being delivered to their final destinations within  hours upon their arrival in Liege, she added, despite a labor shortage at the warehouse due to restriction measures introduced to curb the virus further spread in Europe. Air cargo transportation is available in more than  countries and regions from the end of March to the end of April, as Cainiao claims it is one of the few global logistics networks whose operations have not been affected by the contagion. Powering the operation of Cainiao is a dedicated public service platform in to streamline custom clearance procedures for crossborder trade. The portal allows merchants, warehouse operators and logistics companies from both China and Europe to conduct realtime inquiries concerning the location of parcels being handled and transported. One highlight is the computerized and cloudcomputing backed capabilities that allow us to inform transporters, logistics, and the customs authorities to go through the process as soon as possible, said Michel Kempeneers, chief operating officer of overseas export at Investment of Wallonia Export and Foreign Investment Agency, told China Daily in an interview last month. This is also part of the electronic World Trade Platform that Alibaba proposed to facilitate crossborder trade for notably small businesses. We get to share this model with others as the best practice that can be promoted to other countries in the world, Kempeneers said.