Nuclear energy providers powering on amid outbreak
2020/4/23 17:29
Employees of China National Nuclear Corp at work. Photo provided to chinadaily.com.cn CNNC, top domestic supplier, at near full capacity China National Nuclear Corp will balance epidemic control measures with business operations to ensure fullyear targets are met while technological innovation and safety will continue to be stressed, said a senior executive of the Stateowned company. Currently, about . percent of production subsidiaries of CNNC have resumed operations despite the ongoing COVID pandemic, according to Gu Jun, general manager of the countrys biggest nuclear power conglomerate in terms of production. The companys  nuclear power units generated more than  billion kilowatthours of electricity since Jan , thus helping meet energy output demand amid ongoing work to fight the contagion. In March, China Nuclear Power Engineering, a subsidiary of CNNC, completed a key test in a nuclear power unit using Hualong One technology  a domestically developed thirdgeneration reactor design  in Fuqing, Fujian province, marking an important step in the development of the unit before fuel loading begins. China National Uranium Co, a mining branch of CNNC, reported a . percent yearonyear rise in firstquarter revenue, with profits up . percent. During the crisis, the stability of society is more important than ever. Besides telecommunications, the daily supply of electricity and other utilities are also essential to battle the virus, said Raymond Wang, a partner at consultancy Roland Berger. In addition to guaranteeing business performance, CNNC is carrying out its social responsibilities. China Isotope  Radiation Corp, another subsidiary of CNNC, has been providing radiation sterilization services for products before use since Jan  and has disinfected about . million medical protective gowns, , surgical masks, . million medical latex gloves and , kilograms of traditional Chinese medicine. All , units of medical equipment sent to Wuhan, the hardesthit city from the COVID outbreak in China, were given free radiation sterilization services, said Wang Dingquan, deputy chief engineer of CIRC. He said it usually takes  to  days to sterilize using chemical methods, but radiation sterilization only takes a day, which significantly improves efficiency for areas with huge demand of such products. Medical protective garments were not produced in a completely clean environment and bacteria or viruses may harm patients and doctors, so sterilization is necessary, Wang said. The gowns were transported to our radiation station and were sterilized on conveyor belts before being handed over to materials coordination departments in sealed packages. He added that from February to March, the station sterilized up to , medical protective garments a day, free of charge. The monthly cost of such services to the company is about  million yuan ,. Compared with traditional chemical sterilization, radiation sterilization is more efficient and environmentally friendly as it doesnt leave any chemical residues, Wang Naiyan, a nuclear physicist at the Chinese Academy of Sciences, told the magazine China Nuclear Industry. It can be used to kill cells that contain the virus, he said. Wuhan CNNC CIRC Clinical Laboratory received approval to carry out nucleic acid tests in late February, and has been able to test between  and  samples a day. Some small and mediumsized hospitals are not qualified to do tests, so they send the samples to us, Wang said, adding the work is dangerous for technicians due to the risk of infection. When everyone is running away from the virus, they get close to it. CNNC sent  medical workers to Hubei province, and donated more than  million yuan, , surgical masks and about  metric tons of alcoholbased disinfectants to the region. It also donated medical supplies valued at about . million yuan to its partners in  countries and regions, including Italy, Iran, Pakistan and France. The nuclear and radiation sector in China plays a role in fighting COVID with nuclear fuel cycle facilities in safe operation, nuclear power in steady supply, major projects resuming operations and advanced technologies provided for sterilization, experts said. No nuclear power plant in the country has been shut down due to the impact of the contagion, thus helping guarantee normal electricity supply, said Tang Bo, director of the department of nuclear power safety supervision at the Ministry of Ecology and Environment, during a news conference on April . The countrys  nuclear power units in operation meet all safety standards, while the quality of the  sites under construction is also ensured, said Guo Chengzhan, director of the ministrys department of nuclear facilities safety supervision, at the conference. Guo urged nuclear power companies to accelerate full resumption of operations with safety as the key principle, and encouraged the application of nuclear technologies in sterilization of medical protective equipment and testing. Wang, from the Chinese Academy of Sciences, said nuclear technology is closely related to peoples everyday lives, including in areas of medical technology. Xinhua contributed to this story.