Stateowned firms step up energy supply efforts
2020/4/23 15:51
? People wearing protective face masks are seen with donated aid for poor families, following the coronavirus disease COVID outbreak in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, April , .  MEXICO CITY  The epicenter of COVID is moving from Europe toward the Americas, Cristian Morales Fuhrimann, representative of the PanAmerican Health Organization and the World Health Organization PAHOWHO in Mexico, warned on Wednesday. The Americas have had a bit more time to prepare for what is coming, Morales said via videoconference in Mexico City, noting the continents of North and South America have already seen , infections and , deaths. What we cannot escape is that we are about to experience the worst period of the epidemic in the region and in Mexico, he said. In Mexico, which has reported , confirmed cases and  deaths as of Wednesday according to a tally kept by Johns Hopkins University, the public needs to cooperate with social distancing and hygienic measures to ensure that hospitals are not overrun with patients, he added. In South America, Chile has reported , confirmed cases and  deaths, after  new infections were detected in the past  hours and  more patients died. Chilean authorities have announced a tentative reopening of the economy and schools in May. Peru has registered , cases and  deaths, with , new infections detected in the past day. This virus is very contagious and jumps from person to person when they are together. So whatever activity that has to return to normal will have to take precautions to ensure this contact does not happen, Peruvian Health Minister Victor Zamora said, noting the government is being very careful about lifting lockdown measures. Perus lockdown was set to end on April , but the Medical College of Peru recommended it be extended for another two weeks. Brazil, Latin Americas largest country, reported on Wednesday that cases rose from , to ,, while the death toll climbed from , to ,, with a mortality rate of . percent. Brazils secondlargest city Rio de Janeiro has seen an surge in infections that have overloaded its hospitals, with no more beds available in intensive care units, according to local media. In Ecuador, health authorities said , people have tested positive and  have died, while another  fatalities are suspected of being COVIDrelated, Interior Minister Maria Paula Romo said in her daily press briefing.