Combating COVID Challenge and opportunity
2020/4/23 11:15
? A voter gets her temperature taken at a polling station during the parliamentary election, amid the coronavirus disease pandemic, in Seoul, South Korea, April , .  SEOULThe South Korean government plans to prepare a third supplementary budget and sharply increase subsidies to keep more citizens in jobs through the course of the novel coronavirus outbreak. President Moon Jaein said on Wednesday that a  trillion won . billion fund would be created to help businesses keep jobs, while those who had recently lost jobs from temporary positions or freelance work would be eligible for a , won subsidy for three months. The aid package announced previously would also rise to  trillion won from  trillion won to give more liquidity to companies hit by the pandemic, the finance ministry said on Wednesday. South Korea had reported , infections as of Wednesday. In Israel, the Prime Ministers Office announced the tightening of measures to fight the virus ahead of the states Independence Day on April , including a full lockdown that will last from next Tuesday afternoon until Thursday morning. Total infections in the country were ,, after  cases were confirmed on Tuesday. The death toll surged to . A nurse works on a testing vehicle in Johannesburg, South Africa, on Tuesday.?SHIRAAZ MOHAMEDXINHUA In Africa, more Chinese medical supplies, including medical masks, testing kits, ventilators and other medical equipment, arrived in Algeria on Tuesday night to help the North African country contain the spread of the virus, which has infected , and killed . In South Africa, President Cyril Ramaphosa on Tuesday said that  billion rand . billion would be devoted to relief and economic stimulus measures. The government is also working on additional support measures for vulnerable and affected sectors like the taxi industry, and aid would be made available to other vulnerable groups, Ramaphosa said. The virus has killed  people and infected , in South Africa. Lockdown extension In Nigeria, the authorities confirmed  new cases in the latest hour period which ended on Tuesday night, the biggest singleday increase since the most populous African country reported its first case on Feb . Meanwhile, all airports in the country will remain closed for two more weeks from Thursday as a result of the extension of the lockdown, Nigerian Aviation Minister Hadi Sirika said on Monday. So far, the pandemic has hit the capital city of Abuja and  states. In Sierra Leone, President Julius Bio became the second African leader to go into quarantine on Monday after one of his bodyguards tested positive for the virus. Bio is currently under  days of selfisolation and will be working from home, the presidents spokesperson said. Separately, Foday Mansaray, Sierra Leone Ambassador and representative to the International Human Rights Commission died in the United States on Monday due to the coronavirus. Otiato Opali in Kenya, Xinhua and agencies contributed to this story.