Experts Calm needed amid cases
2021/8/4 9:40
Chinas Alex Hua Tian negotiates a fence on board Don Geniro during the individual eventing competition at the Tokyo Olympic Games on Monday. Hua finished in th place.  Alex Hua Tian incredibly proud to make more history on horseback for China Having made history for his country at the unprecedented Olympics in Tokyo, Chinese rider Alex Hua Tian had every right to be proud of his effortseven if glory eluded him and his teammates on this occasion. On Monday, Chinas four eventing riders wound up their Olympic campaign by finishing a respectable ninth in their first ever appearance in the team competition, with Britain taking gold. In the individual competition, Hua was the only Chinese rider to the reach the final, finishing th on board Don Geniro, with whom he finished eighth at the Rio Olympics. Tough sport, tough day. Not the end that I wanted individually but incredibly proud to be part of the first Chinese equestrian eventing team at an Olympics, said Hua. Don jumped the round of his life last night under the lights in the Equestrian Park. However, I made a mistake with my distance to the last fence and Don said, Sorry, I cant jump from there! Thankfully, I stayed on and finished the course, although I cannot help but feel that I let Don down when he was trying his hardest. Its me giving him a fright and even though he had used up everything he had in the first round. They are such wonderful, generous animals. Gutted but thankful I have a happy healthy partner traveling homethank you, Don, for everything this week. Hua made history at the Beijing Games in  when he became Chinas first equestrian Olympian at the age of , and remains the youngest eventer in Olympic history. After missing out on London , Hua bounced back to reach Rio . His teammates Bao Yingfeng and Sun Huadong, who made their Olympic debuts in Tokyo, finished th and th respectively to miss out on the final. Substitute rider Liang Ruiji did not get a chance to compete but still earned special praise from team leader Hu Biao. Due to the pandemic, Liang Ruiji was unable to come to Europe to train with his horse. So he let the younger riders Bao Yingfeng and Sun Huadong replace him, said Hu. Even though he did not compete in Tokyo, he has been a vital part of the team. Alex Hua Tian competes for China during the crosscountry section of the equestrian eventing competition at the Tokyo Olympic Games on Sunday.  Challenging times It has been an arduous journey to Tokyo for all the Chinese riders. In May , Chinas eventers qualified for the team competition. However, in early  the outbreak of the COVID pandemic presented major logistical and travel problems to Hua and his teammates. The postponement of the Olympics then left them mulling the conundrum of how to spend an extra year preparing in the absence of international competitions. When the time arrived to travel to Tokyo from their training bases in Europe, complications involving medical quarantine and the shipment of their horses were major headaches. We were just so stressed about the paperwork, Hua told Xinhua. It has been a nightmare from beginning to end. Unlike previous Games, none of Huas family members or friends could travel with him to Tokyo. This time only his horses groom could accompany him from London. Its very sad. But speaking for all the athletes, we totally understand the reasons, Hua added. The Chinese Equestrian Association offered assistance to the riders as best it could. I have to say a huge thankyou to the association for their support, hard work and diligence in making sure we got to this stage, Hua told China Daily before heading to Tokyo. Perhaps because of all those difficulties, Hua was emotional when proceedings finally got underway in the Japanese capital. Such a shame not to share the magic of an Olympic opening ceremony with a live audienceI will always remember Rio as my first opening ceremony and five years later, I can still feel the electricity from the atmosphere and hear the deafening roar from the crowd, Hua said of the opening night. I may well remember tonight for different but even more heartwarming reasons. This wonderful volunteer was waiting at the end of the tunnel entrance to the Olympic Stadium and burst into tears when she saw us. Just so overwhelmed by emotion. Her passion and patriotism touched us all and it was so honest that we didnt know how to react at first! The head of the delegation personally handed her a very rare Chinese pin, which athletes only get one each, and a lovely athlete from the Chinese womens water polo team gave her a new pack of Team China face masks. Sadly that was all we were able to do at the time but I came away thinking about the Olympic Movement, what it means and despite how difficult a year the world has had, how important it remains to so many people. To inspire this level of emotion inspires us. Thank you to this volunteer for inspiring us all. Alex Hua Tian steers his horse during the dressage section of the eventing competition at the Tokyo Olympics last Friday at Equestrian Park in Tokyo.  Brighter future For Sun and Bao, attending the Tokyo Olympics was already a dream come true. This is the first time that Team China is able to attend the Olympic team eventing competition. This is just a start and I believe in a brighter future for Chinese equestrian sport, said Sun. We have made history. I think all sports are the same. We may not get what we want even if we try, but if we dont even try, its certain we will achieve nothing. Bao was thrilled with his debut, saying My first Olympic journey has ended in a perfect way. I have so many things to say and so many people to thank. Frankly speaking, the first time I knew I was going to prepare for the Olympics, I felt everything was too far away, but I just chose to trust myselfThe Tokyo Olympics has ended but my equestrian journey has just started. Sun, , only began riding a decade ago, when he first visited an equestrian club with a friend. After ranking last among all the riders in his first competition in , a despondent Sun asked to quit the team, only for the team leader to refuse his request. I remember my team leader told me that I was still young and I still have chances. His words and that trust continue to motivate me until this day. Those words have influenced my professional career and changed my life. Now with Olympic experience under his belt, Sun is even more determined to pursue his equestrian dreams and hopes to encourage the next generation of Chinese riders.