. tons of Boston lobsters from Canada arrive in East China city
2020/4/23 10:00
Japanese director Ryo Takeuchi records the effective viruscombating measures taken in Nanjing.Photo provided to China Daily The international community needs to take an objective view on Chinas fight against COVID, a Japanese documentary director has told Xinhua. I have seen some distorted reports about China, and I hope that the international media and people in other countries can understand Chinas efforts to prevent the spread of COVID from an objective perspective, Ryo Takeuchi, who lives in China, said. This is my biggest wish as a documentary director, he added. Takeuchi has made two documentaries successively over the past few months on the antiepidemic fight in the Chinese city of Nanjing, with both hitting the headlines on Yahoo Japan, one of the most visited websites in the country. Both documentaries have been shown by wellknown Japanese broadcasters, including NHK and TV Asahi Corporation. Having lived in Nanjing for seven years, Takeuchi said the idea of making such documentaries came from his growing awareness of Chinas quarantine measures. Noting that he did not understand such measures at first when he and his family members were quarantined after returning from Japan in midFebruary, Takeuchi said he was later impressed by the meticulous work of the citys community workers and was touched by the changes seen in every aspect of his life. Nanjing, a city of . million people, has so far not seen a single death from novel coronavirus infection, and all the some confirmed cases recovered from hospital in March. I am deeply moved by the unprecedented solidarity and dedication of the Chinese people in the face of the epidemic, he said. As far as I know, many hotels are voluntarily providing isolated accommodation for people with mild symptoms or returning from overseas, he said. I was anxious to let my friends and the Japanese people see Chinas specific epidemic prevention measures, to let everyone know how China controlled the epidemic effectively and to provide a reference for Japan, he added. Takeuchi said he believes the simpleness and directness of recording ordinary lives in Nanjing amid the epidemic are the reasons behind the success of his two documentaries, raising the footage of drones broadcasting antiepidemic guidelines, robots delivering medicine to patients, and his son taking online classes at home as examples. Celebrities are seen wearing masks in a charity advertisement during a national public campaign to help raise the awareness of local citizens to protect themselves for their own sake as well as that of others.Photo provided to China Daily I filmed my own company, the restaurants near my company, the subway I used, the hotel where my employees were quarantined, the life of my children at home, and the hospital for infectious diseases that everyone cared about most ... there was no background music. I dont want to highlight anything. I hope to use the civilian perspective, the downtoearth way to record the antivirus life in Nanjing objectively and truly, he said. Takeuchi said he has also made an English version of his first documentary, titled Emergent report A city sees no more new confirmed cases, in which he added such messages as European friends, dont discriminate against Asian people who wear masks. The director said he hopes that via these messages, people in other countries can better understand China as well as the Asian peoples efforts to fight the epidemic. The English version has also turned out a hit, receiving support from TV stations in countries including South Korea, Russia and Italy, among others. Next step, I want to go to Wuhan, hoping to use my camera to record Wuhan after experiencing all the hardships and locking down, to present the real Wuhan to the world, he said.