China donates , face masks to Greece
2020/4/23 9:53
A volunteer distributes sanitizer to Hong Kong residents in February, .  Men and women from Hong Kongs various disciplined services branches, including the fire service and customs and excise, have stepped into the front line against the novel coronavirus, checking on those quarantined as potentially infected. On Feb , Anson Tsui Hungcho put on goggles and a mask. He joined three other members of the Hong Kong Disciplined Services Volunteer Corps to make their first rounds, checking on peoples welfare and ensuring that quarantine was being respected. The team set out for the Sham Shui Po community to check on travelers who had arrived from the Chinese mainland and faced mandatory day quarantine. Each team member carried a small bag containing disinfectants and disposable gloves. Tsui said he was nervous. He had prepared a change of clothing for when the mission was over. After all, you cant see the virus and you are in contact with people in highrisk areas, he said. The volunteers were summoned via an online chatroom operated by the corps. In all, they visited about  households to ensure no one broke quarantine. Tsui reckoned his efforts would ease the burden on frontline officers. Since Feb , when the edict came into effect, , people have been placed under mandatory home quarantine. The team checked an elderly couple on a public estate. Many seniors have difficulty using smartphones, but the devices are important as the government uses them to keep track of people. As the couple didnt have phones, Tsui fitted tracking bands around their ankles, which can locate people without the need for smartphones. Mak Kamfai, a retired firefighter and chairman of the corps, said the volunteers focus on seniors who dont use smartphones. When they cross the border, immigration officers note their home address and we do followup checks to ensure they stay home, he said. Volunteers also take key roles in call centers, helping police with the daily workload of more than , calls to those in quarantine, who must be phoned every two hours. The corps was established to help restore Hong Kong after the city was battered by Typhoon Mangkhut in . In late January,  minutes after Mak sent out the first call for quarantine and infection volunteers, more than  raised their hands. Disciplined services officers are committed to helping society. They are at the antivirus forefront, onand offduty. I respect them, Mak said. On Feb , he received an urgent request from the government to transport furniture to the Chun Yeung Estate in the citys Fo Tan area. The estate needed to be ready the following day, when over  Hong Kong residents were set to fly home from the virusstricken cruise ship Diamond Princess, which was anchored off Japan. Mak received the request at  pm. He was unsure if he could assemble enough volunteers at such short notice, and he prepared to work overnight. When he arrived at the estate, he was delighted to see that  volunteers had already arrived. The work was finished by  pm, with over  volunteers taking part. The corps achievements are wellknown, and China Pacific Insurance has provided HK million . million in insurance. Mak said it was an encouraging gift for everyone involved.