Deportations stoke fears in US neighbors
2020/4/23 9:37
? A man wearing a face mask listens to the NotreDame de Paris Cathedrals great bell ringing, as a mark of the buildings resilience one year after a devastating fire, during the coronavirus disease outbreak, France, April , .  PARIS  French people are concerned about the governments plan to ease movement restrictions from May  as the coronavirus epidemic situation presented some encouraging signs after five weeks of lockdown, polls released on Wednesday showed. As of Wednesday, , people tested positive for the coronavirus were hospitalized, down by  in the last  hours, consolidating a oneweek slowdown. The number of patients who need intensive care has fallen for the th consecutive day. An Elabe survey found that  percent of , respondents were concerned about the deconfinement,  percent were upbeat about postlockdown life. On school reopening,  percent thought that the government had not well prepared the backtoschoolandwork measures. In another poll, conducted by Harris Interactive after Prime Minister Edouard Philippe presented the main pillars of a deconfinement plan on Sunday, a large majority of people were in favor of remote work even after the end of the confinement, while  percent of the interviewed found school reopening a bad decision. The French government is working on a plan to wind down confinement measures, enforced in midMarch and extended twice, with the aim to both avoid a resurgence of the virus and ensure a gradual return to normal life. We are preparing a second stage, of which we do not know how long it will last, said President Emmanuel Macron earlier in the day during a visit to northwestern France. The ice is thin and we do not want to make steps backwards ... So we must not put into question this effort by a too hasty return or a desire to say its all behind us, he added. Under the governments plan, cafes, restaurants, shops, cinemas and theatres would remain closed while festivals would be postponed to midJuly. Meanwhile, schools would be reopened in several stages and with much smaller classes. But questions over protective equipment and hygiene protocol to be implemented in education establishments remained unanswered, igniting concerns and unions critics.