Recovering COVID survivor sends message to protesters
2020/4/23 9:20
An employee checks N medical protective masks at a factory in Chongqing, Southwest China, on Feb , .  Due to a lack of meltblown fabric, the face mask company that Gu Ning works for stopped production for five days on Wednesday. The company in Changzhou, Jiangsu province, produces medical face masks that are exported overseas, mainly to East Asian countries such as Japan and South Korea. The price of meltblown fabric has skyrocketed since the face mask market flourished with the emergence of the coronavirus, Gu said. But the surging prices are not the problem the quality is. The price of meltblown fabric, which was less than , yuan , per metric ton, had surged to , yuan and now sits at around , yuan. Many producers jumped into the market after the coronavirus spurred demand for the once obscure material. But much of the meltblown fabric that they make cannot meet our standards, Gu said. We cannot make qualified masks without highquality meltblown fabric. But now the goodquality fabric is all sold out. It left us no choice but to suspend production, he said. We prefer suspension to producing masks with lowquality fabric. The meltblown fabric is a layer in the medical face mask that is made of polypropylene. The fabric is laminated by many interlaced fibers stretching in random directions. Due to its structure, the fabric acts as the filter that stops pollutants such as particulates or bacteria from entering or exiting the mask. To regulate the meltblown fabric market, the Ministry of Public Security has cracked down on  meltblown fabricrelated cases and has arrested  people accused of fraud or price gouging related to fabric across the country as of midApril. Some suspects produced fake fabric using lowquality materials, while others sold genuine fabric at more than  times the regular price. The local court in Shaoxing, Zhejiang province, recently ruled on its first fraud case involving meltblown fabric. The court sentenced a man to one year behind bars and fined him , yuan. Yangzhong, Jiangsu province, has suspended the production of all the meltblown fabric companies in the city to regulate the market. Known as hometown for meltblown fabric, the city has  companies producing the material. Almost all those companies were newly established, or had changed the scope of their businesses after the coronavirus outbreak, to enter the market, according to the Yangzhong Administration for Market Regulation. Normally it takes at least three months and more than  million yuan to establish a factory that can produce quality meltblown fabric. Though the companies in Yangzhong produced about  metric tons of fabric a day, much of it could not pass quality checks due to inferior materials and subpar machinery used to produce it, according to the administration. Local police have detained some suspects who increased fabric prices for further investigation. On April , Premier Li Keqiang said that the country will speed up international cooperation in controlling the outbreak of the coronavirus and that China will strictly monitor the quality of exported medical supplies. He added that those who produce medical supplies without qualification, do not follow national standards and boost prices of medical supplies and their raw materials will be strictly punished. Many large Chinese petrochemical, vehicle and home appliance producers have started to produce highquality meltblown fabric to meet the market demand. Starting this month,  new production lines of Sinopec Group and China National Petroleum Corporation have gone into operation. Ma Zhenhuan contributed to this story.