Keeping the virus at bay on the world stage
2020/4/23 8:46
Once a poster child of the meteoric rise of the worlds secondlargest economy and now a living embodiment of Chinas battle against the coronavirus pandemic and to restart the countrys economy, Chinese conglomerate Fosun International stakes its past, present and future on its home market. The Hong Konglisted enterprise, with a business footprint in more than  countries and regions across six continents, bears the imprint of a nationwide just do it push, charting its own course to become one of Chinas largest private business groups. It traces its origins to the story of young aspirants who ventured into the business world and plowed their earnings, talent and energy into the countrys unprecedented economic overhaul to build up something from nothing. Fighting on the front line As big as Fosun has become in a mere  years, the homegrown conglomerate has been at the front line of the coronavirus battlefield since the start of the Year of the Rat, underscoring Chinas dogged determination to join the rest of the world in the fight to contain the virus. Its a race against time, said Xu Xiaoliang, the groups coCEO and executive director, who still remembers vividly how the Shanghaibased company toiled roundtheclock to deploy emergency supplies such as protective masks, goggles, medical gloves, protective suits and ventilators through its global affiliates. After concluding an emergency meeting on New Years Eve, Jan , the company saw its first batch of supplies arrive shortly after midnight on Jan . Every part of the groups global business empire then swung into action, launching themselves into a crossborder relay race to deliver the most urgently needed supplies to Wuhan  the Hubei provincial capital and one of the cities hardest hit by the outbreak that was plagued by an acute shortage of strategic supplies as local factories were shut for the holidays with inadequate time to crank up production. Xu believes the pandemic presented a test of Fosuns yearslong overseas investments and operations. But without the foresight, a sense of crisis and the capability to mobilize, organize and deploy global resources, things couldnt have been done at such a blistering pace. Fosun quickly organized and established  antiCOVID working committees covering  provinces and regions in China, as well as  overseas countries and regions, to ensure the normal operations of local member companies of Fosun, and this showed the swift response and concrete actions of the company, Xu said. As the most populous nation on earth takes the lead in keeping the lid on the pathogen and putting its economy back on track, Fosun is facing another uphill battle as the coronavirus continues its rampage across the world. The conglomerate has lost no time in providing countries like Japan, Italy, South Korea, India, the United States and France with emergency supplies, capitalizing on Chinas rapidly resuming and even steppedup production capacity. As the race to produce a coronavirus vaccine accelerated, Fosun Pharma  the enterprises Hong Kong and Shanghailisted pharmaceutical arm whose business covers the entire industry chain of the pharmaceutical and healthcare industry  has clinched a  million partnership with German group BioNTech to develop a COVID vaccine. Fosuns endeavors during the coronavirus crisis are fundamentally based on the companys strong confidence in the resilience of the Chinese economy, Xu said. Chinas economy resistant Business data tell everything. Domestic consumption, one of the fundamental growth engines for Chinas economy, shows no sign of losing steam, with a consumerled recovery taking hold in the country, he said. This makes us believe that China, which bankrolls a big effort in combating the coronavirus, has what it takes to be the early mover to step out of all the shortterm pain and make a fresh start. Xu said the occupancy rate at the groups Atlantis Sanya luxury resort on the South China island province of Hainan hit  percent in late March compared with the same period last year, and is poised to set a new record for the upcoming golden week holidays from May . Business at directsale stores of the groups Yuyuan Tourist Mart has rebounded to  percent of the same period of last year. Meanwhile, sales at Bund Finance Center in Shanghai have returned to  percent of the same period last year, with certain business segments exceeding sales from a year ago. From its humble roots, Fosun has taken a good hard road to the lofty goal of marrying Chinese momentum with global resources, being a wellconnected local partner for foreign brands and technologies in line with the nations growth trajectory. Connecting to the world This makes the company well positioned to take a good, hard look at how China and the rest of world is closely connected, especially when todays rhetoric and mentality worldwide may usher in a new era of globalization and trade relationship, Xu said. He believes the global health crisis will essentially change a lot of things, reinforcing the themes of online, health and family for our everchanging future. In a sea of changes, however, companies should have an anchor in place to help them ride out the storm, Xu said. Such an anchor is something you firmly believe in, deeply rooted in companies DNA and inseparable from their vision. Fosun has positioned itself as an innovationdriven, familyoriented, consumerled business group, whose businesses are focused on the verticals of health, wealth and happiness. Amid the coronavirus crisis, all the changes are for the realization of the ultimate, unchanged goal. The anchor helps carve out a clear path for us, making sure we can face the rough weather and forge ahead without easily losing our way, Xu said. The companys antiepidemic operations stimulated the wartime morale of the organization, and it is confident that it can grasp global industrial opportunities in the postoutbreak era, Xu added. Contact the writer at sophiachinadailyhk.com ?