Ministry Nation mobilizing support for Chinese overseas
2020/4/23 8:02
Some of the  teenage Chinese students arrive at Shanghai Pudong International Airport on Sunday after taking a chartered flight from San Francisco as part of Chinas plan to bring young Chinese students back home amid the COVID pandemic. Photo by Gao ErqiangChina Daily China has fully mobilized all kinds of resources to provide timely assistance and support for its overseas citizens amid the health threat caused by the spread of the COVID disease globally, Foreign Ministry spokesman Geng Shuang said on Wednesday. Since the outbreak, Chinese leaders have urged their foreign counterparts to take effective measures to guarantee the health and legitimate rights of Chinese citizens and facilitate their stay in other countries, Geng told reporters at a regular news briefing in Beijing. According to the spokesman, President Xi Jinping has had  phone conversations with  foreign leaders and heads of international organizations. Premier Li Keqiang has had  phone talks with  foreign leaders and heads of international organizations and State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi has had  phone calls with foreign ministers of  countries and three international organizations chiefs. The Communist Party of China and the Chinese government always put Chinese compatriots lives and health as their top priority, Geng said. He said that Chinese diplomatic missions overseas are in close contact with diplomatic, public health, education, police and immigration authorities in host countries to coordinate assistance for Chinese citizens. The ministrys consular helpline  has received nearly , calls in the past two months, three times the number in the same period last year, he said. According to Geng, Chinese embassies and consulates in several countries, including the United States, the United Kingdom, Russia, Japan and Germany, have organized heads of the diplomatic missions or Chinese medical experts to carry out virtual exchanges with local compatriots, students and employees of Chinese companies, to provide them with professional suggestions and psychological counseling. Given that the pandemic situation is severe in some countries, he said that extra flights have been sent to bring back Chinese citizens from overseas. As of early April, the ministry has coordinated with other departments to send more than , health packages with face masks to Chinese students in foreign countries, Geng added. These measures have effectively eased the anxiety of Chinese citizens overseas, the spokesman said, adding that the ministry and Chinese diplomatic missions will continue their coordination efforts and provide more help to finally win the battle against the virus.