Embassy, medics offer support to Chinese students studying in the UK
2020/4/23 7:44
A China Southern Airlines worker loads medical supplies, including masks and protective suits, at Shenyang Taoxian International Airport in Northeast Chinas Liaoning province, on March , . Photo provided to chinadaily.com.cn China has greatly enhanced its international air freight capacity to ensure the smooth running of the supply chain amid the ongoing novel coronavirus pandemic, according to the countrys top aviation regulator. The aviation authority has set up a green channel and continued to reduce operational costs for international air cargo trips, as well as adding more charter flights and opening new air routes, said Jin Junhao, an official in the Civil Aviation Administration of Chinas Department of Transport. These measures will increase the countrys international air freight capacity and guarantee smooth cargo transportation worldwide, he said at a news conference on Wednesday. Domestic and foreignowned international cargo flights in China are expected to total , this week, connecting with  destinations in  countries around the world, Jin said. However, with air passenger services dwindling worldwide due to the outbreak, the cargo volume carried in the hold of passenger planes, which previously accounted for about half of the worlds air cargo, has continued to plummet, resulting in a staggering decline in air cargo capacity. In response to the concern, the administration is encouraging airlines to help fill the severe shortage in freight capacity by turning passenger jets, which sit idle at airports due to the outbreak, into cargoonly airplanes to haul medical supplies, daily necessities and production materials, he said. China Eastern Airlines has recently removed about  economy seats from each of its six A widebody passenger aircraft to carry goods, according to the company. Wang Jianmin, deputy manager of Eastern Air Logistics, said that the carrier now operates about  international cargoonly flights per week. Its important to look at the market from a new perspective, as difficulties are aggravated by the coronavirus, he said. By using the cargo compartment of parked passenger aircraft, not only can we respond to the changing demand of cargo transport by diversifying our cargo routes, we can also reduce aircraft parking fees. According to the administration, among this weeks , international cargo flights,  trips, or over  percent, were made by passenger aircraft refitted into cargoonly airplanes. Jin added that the administration has established an international air freight flight information system allowing hour online approval and has approved , added charter cargo flights by domestic and overseas carriers since February, as well as , allcargo flights by refitted passenger aircraft.