COVID has taught us the oneness of the world
2020/4/23 0:00
Companies from Zhongguancun Science City in Beijing are joining in the global fight against COVID, by utilizing their technological applications and donating protective equipment. An artificial intelligence system developed by Beijing Infervision Technology in the hightech zone can help detect infections by analyzing CT images, reporting to doctors immediately so as to increase efficiency, and reducing standard wait times for results to two to three minutes. Campus BioMedico University Hospital in Rome, Italy, uses this system. Sun Yipeng, head of the European branch of Infervision Technology, said the system contains data from COVID patients in Wuhan, the hardesthit region in China, which can be useful for medical workers in Italy. More than , doctors at Baidu Health, a medical care service platform in Zhongguancun, is providing hour online medical consultancy services for Chinese people overseas. Baidu Health broadcasts at least one livestream a day to inform overseas Chinese and students abroad of antivirus advice from medical experts and frontline staff. The platform has also released handbooks and guides on selfdetection and prevention, as well as notices for those planning to return to China. The company said it has provided more than  million free consultations within China and those overseas stand at more than ,. On March , a business matching event was held by incubator TusStar for tech companies. Four companies introduced their products and services to  overseas heads of TusStar in Asia, Europe and North America to evaluate possible cooperation. Beijing Haidian Overseas Students Pioneer Park of China is holding livestream events to target foreign entrepreneurs in China, covering Chinese company law, Chinese labor law, recruitment during the outbreak, opportunities in online markets and investment. Smartphone manufacturer Xiaomi has donated more than , face masks to Italy to ease its shortage of protective equipment. On the boxes delivered, the company quoted Roman philosopher Seneca We are waves of the same sea, leaves of the same tree, flowers of the same garden. Lei Jun, founder and CEO of Xiaomi, said via Sina Weibo on March , that the first batch of medical supplies donated to South Korea was from individuals who had graduated from Wuhan University and companies whose founders once studied at the university. Leyard Group, a visual media products manufacturer in Zhongguancun, donated , face masks to South Korean conglomerate LG in midMarch. Seoul provides much help to China during the outbreak, and the return gestures show how countries can help each other out during difficult times. Officials from Zhongguancun Science City said it will continue to offer technological support to the world to help control the COVID outbreak. ? A doctor in Italy uses the intelligent aid screening and epidemic monitoring system developed by Beijing Infervision Technology in Zhongguancun Science City, Beijing. CHINA DAILY ? ?