Hundreds more students return home to China
2020/4/23 0:00
With the number of coronavirus deaths seemingly plateauing in many of the hardesthit European countries and even falling in others, some nations have tentatively relaxed curbs. According to the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control, Europe had registered ,, COVID cases and , deaths as of Tuesday. In Italy, the virus had infected , people and claimed , lives as of Tuesday, according to the Civil Protection Department. The number of hospitalized and ICU patients has continued to drop. The country entered into a national lockdown on March . The lockdown, which is expected to last until May , will be followed by a socalled Phase Two, involving the gradual resumption of social, economic and productive activities. A key weapon during this phase is contacttracing via a governmentcommissioned app to be downloaded onto mobile phones on a voluntary basis, Extraordinary Commissioner Domenico Arcuri said on Tuesday. Spain will allow children to go outside for walks from next weekend in a loosening of the countrys strict lockdown, Health Minister Salvador Illa said on Tuesday, amid mounting criticism that the governments restrictions unfairly penalize the very young. The change came hours after the government first announced that young children, who are currently banned from leaving home under any circumstances, would be allowed to accompany their parents on essential trips such as to buy food or medicine. Spain had , deaths from , cases as of Wednesday, the health ministry said. In France, which plans to unwind some restriction measures from May , registered  more deaths on Tuesday. Hospitals and nursing homes numbers showed that combined deaths rose to ,, health authorities said. Wearing masks In Germany, many states including the state government of Berlin announced on Tuesday that they would make wearing face masks a mandatory measure. On Tuesday, the federal states of SchleswigHolstein, Hamburg, Berlin, Hesse, BadenWuerttemberg and SaxonyAnhalt announced some form of obligation to wear a protective face mask in certain public areas. Thuringia, Bavaria and Mecklenburg Western Pomerania had earlier announced the requirement for masks. In the United Kingdom, a starker picture emerged on the number of deaths in England and Wales, indicated by data from a nonministerial government department, the Office for National Statistics. The latest ONS figures show that, in the week ending April , deaths were at a year high, with , fatalities occurring during a week that would normally see around ,. More than , of those additional fatalities were linked to the virus, and five out of every six viruslinked deaths happened in hospital. The agencys data is far more complete than the COVID death toll released by the government because that number only includes those in hospital. UK Health Secretary Matt Hancock sought to downplay the ONS figures on Tuesday, saying that there are differences in how the government and the ONS measure the death toll. He was speaking as COVID deaths in hospital rose by  on Tuesday, to ,. Earle Gale in London, Xinhua and agencies contributed to this story. ? Firefighters perform for the residents of a retirement home in Nice, France, on Tuesday as the lockdown to contain the novel coronavirus continues in the country. ERIC GAILLARDREUTERS ? ?