Wuhan holds first onsite job fair since virus outbreak
2020/4/22 17:30
A job seeker consults a staff worker at a job fair in Wuhan, Hubei province, on April , . Photo by Li Ziyunfor chinadaily.com.cn WUHAN  Over , job seekers on Tuesday attended a job fair in Wuhan, the citys first onsite recruitment activity since the outbreak of the novel coronavirus. The human resources and social security bureau of Wuhan, capital of Central Chinas Hubei province, said  enterprises brought over , job vacancies into the events seven subfairs held in different districts, which saw a total of , people signing recruitment contracts. The return of such onsite job fairs came as Wuhan continues to speed up work resumption and bring its battered economy back on track. The central city had previously held several online job fairs as residents were told to stay at home during the day lockdown, which was lifted on April  as the epidemic petered out. Precautions were still in place at Tuesdays fair. Job seekers were required to present health codes, wear masks and keep a distance of at least . meters when lining up before the companies booths. Zhu Xiulian, , found a new job at a garment factory via the fair. The glass factory where Ive worked for  years went bankrupt. I searched for weeks before I was recruited because most companies only hire people under , she said. The garment company that hired Zhu switched to the production of protective suits during the epidemic and has faced a surging demand for labor. It had previously held two job fairs in Huanggang, a city near Wuhan, and employed over  workers. Some workers were there to find shortterm jobs to tide over the temporary closures of their workplaces. We have helped some  staff members find shortterm jobs, said Xu Juzhen, owner of a local restaurant that closed amid the epidemic, grounding over  employees at home. We will welcome them back as soon as our dinein service resumes. The bureau said it will continue to organize both online and offline job fairs, planning at least  events by the end of June to provide about , jobs.