S. Korea adds b economic stimulus package over COVID
2020/4/22 15:50
? A clerk, wearing a protective face mask following an outbreak of the coronavirus disease, talks to a customer at a mobile phone shop in Daegu, South Korea, March , .  SEOUL  South Korean President Moon Jaein said Wednesday that his government will add a total of  trillion won  billion for additional economic stimulus package to tackle a possible employment shock from the COVID outbreak across the world. Now is the beginning stage of a crisis. Along with the crisis of companies, an employment cold wave is just around the corner. Employment shock that has never been experienced could come more broadly and longer, Moon said during the fifth meeting of the emergency economic council, according to the presidential Blue House. To support the basis industries, which have a significant impact on the economy and employment,  trillion won  billion will be spent on condition that companies maintain their workforce. The emergency financial aid package for small firms, microbusiness owners and the selfemployed will be expanded to  trillion  billion from  trillion won  billion to support more microbusiness owners and even companies with low credit ratings. A separate  trillion won  billion will be set aside to protect jobs by providing benefits for companies that maintain workforce and offering , won  per month to freelancers and contract workers, who lost jobs, as well as the selfemployed with lower income for three months. Moon said the government will seek to create about , jobs in the public sector as the private sector is hard to hire more workers, vowing to normalize the delayed recruitment schedule in the public sector as early as possible. Moon instructed officials to launch a task force, which will be in charge of the South Korean version New Deal to push for massive government projects, ordering the preparation for the third supplementary budget. The first extra budget worth . trillion won . billion was passed through the National Assembly in March, and the second supplementary budget of . trillion won . billion was submitted to the parliament earlier this month.