Legal action against China is political grandstanding by US politicians
2020/4/22 13:35
Algerian employees at a China Railway rock crushing plant hold a banner encouraging their friends on Feb . It reads, Stay Strong China. Photo provided to chinadaily.com.cn As Xu Kaidong demonstrated the proper way to put on a face mask at a rock crushing plant in the Algerian province of Guelma, his Chinese and Algerian colleagues at China Railway th Bureau Group watched closely. Watch very carefully, Xu said. We should wear the mask in this way, with the side of lighter color inside to completely cover your mouth and nose, Xu said. He approached Benrazke Samir, a yearold Algerian, and helped him adjust the mask to the correct position. The companys construction of an kilometer section of highway has been disrupted by the COVID pandemic. Now, seven Algerian workers and five Chinese ones hang around the plants living area. All of them have learned how to wear and disinfect masks and how to measure body temperature to guard against fever from the coronavirus. Workers at a rock crushing plant of China Railways th Bureau Group learn how to wear a mask properly in March in the Algerian province of Guelma. Photo provided to chinadaily.com.cn They also recorded videos showing how to wash hands and properly carry out other sanitation measures to share with their families and friends. Samir said the demonstrations have been important in stopping the contagious virus. Sufficient epidemic prevention supplies have been sent from the companys Chinese headquarters, and they were distributed equally to each of the workers. As of April , confirmed cases of COVID in Algeria had reached ,, and deaths had climbed to , according to the Johns Hopkins University. Knowing that at least one confirmed case had been reported within  kilometers of the plant, the workers said they are currently safe  in part thanks to their quick early prevention measures before the country had reported any cases. Zhang Haidong, the plant manager, said he was grateful that when the coronavirus was spreading in China, an Algerian colleague shared a picture of a banner that read, Stay Strong China. Such heartfelt friendship is something I will never forget, said Zhang, who has worked at the plant for many years.