Chinese diplomats help New York with medical gear
2020/4/22 10:43
Medical supplies sent by the Chinese government to help New York City fight the coronavirus arrived over the weekend. Chinese diplomatic missions announced the delivery at a virtual handover ceremony via Zoom on Tuesday. The shipment of personal protective equipment PPE was coordinated by the Chinese Consulate General in New York and the Permanent Mission of China to the United Nations. It included , N masks, , protective suits and , pairs of medical gloves. All of our staff and family members see ourselves as New Yorkers, and always want to reach out to help, Huang Ping, Chinas consul general in New York, said at the virtual ceremony. He also paid tribute to the dedication displayed by healthcare professionals, first responders and medical researchers citywide. Huang urged the two biggest economies in the world to lead the effort against the coronavirus. This is not the time for fingerpointing. This is the time for solidarity, collaboration, cooperation and mutual support, he added. Zhang Jun, Chinas permanent representative to the United Nations, stressed the importance of multilateralism and global cooperation. We should stand firm against the politicization of the pandemic and remove all obstacles which hinder our cooperation, he said. We need to support the United Nations and the WHO World Health Organization in playing a leading and coordinating role in defeating COVID, the common enemy of all mankind. Zhang said that every day at  pm EDT, he and his wife, from their balcony, join their neighbors in clapping to support the citys essential workers. He believes that the unity of all New Yorkers will defeat the pandemic and bring dynamic and colorful life back to New York. Consul General Huang Ping said that China also has donated , ventilators, . million masks, , pairs of surgical gloves, , goggles and , protective suits to the United States, much of it to New York, based on an estimate. Penny Abeywardena, New York Citys commissioner for international affairs, acknowledged Chinas contributions. We are grateful for your support and your partnership. And we will not tolerate any harassment or discrimination of your community here, she said. On Tuesday, New York governor Andrew Cuomo said at his daily press conference that the New York state recorded  new COVID deaths and , new COVID hospitalizations. According to data compiled by Johns Hopkins University, there has infected more than , people across the state and , deaths in the New York City as of Tuesday. ?