Internet companies ramping up efforts to provide more flexible positions
2020/4/22 10:16
Zheng Yun, a yearold courier with Ele.me in Funan county, Anhui province, poses for a photo on her way to delivering goods. Photo by Niu Jingfor China Daily Chinese internet companies are ramping up efforts to offer more job opportunities in a bid to minimize the impact of the novel coronavirus outbreak on employment and to help small and mediumsized enterprises brave difficulties. Ele.me and Koubei, Alibabas local services company, said it would provide more than , jobs in catering and other services to  povertystricken counties across the nation and help , deliverymen in  impoverished counties. The move came after the company announced in February that it launched a jobsharing platform to help restaurant employees temporarily shift into delivery services. Merchants listed on Ele.me and Koubei can recommend job opportunities for their employees, who can arrange their own time flexibly to receive orders and deliver meals for their own stores, or become sorters at nearby supermarkets and convenience stores. So far, more than , restaurant employees have been provided with temporary positions. The catering industry has been hit hard as much of the population is confined indoors due to restrictions placed on large gatherings at public places like restaurants. Moreover, Ele.me and Koubei announced it will empower  million merchants on its platforms to upgrade its digital solutions. It will also offer , online premium lectures covering catering, logistics and retail within the next three years to foster  million staff engaged in these industries, enhance their digital operational capacities and create new digital positions for merchants. Wang Lei, president of Alibaba local services company, said the pandemic has greatly accelerated the digitalization push of the services sector, and the company said it would provide merchants with more traffic, lower commissions and better services. The Ministry of Human Resources and Social Security said the services sector has been growing rapidly over the past five years. The sector accounted for  percent of total employment in , up from . percent in . Digitalization of local services has helped create a group of new jobs like delivery drivers, food delivery planners and operations analysts. Chen Liteng, an analyst at the Internet Economy Research Institute, said internet enterprises are making efforts to push forward the flexible employment method, which can reduce labor costs of enterprises and improve operational efficiency. These measures not only contribute to society, but are also beneficial to the development of the platforms. Dada Group, Chinas leading platform for ondemand retail and delivery, announced that it plans to recruit , deliverymen and other staff. Among them, the first round of recruitment of , deliverymen will cover more than , cities and counties across the country. JD Daojia, the local ondemand retail platform of Dada Group, will assist retail partners, such as Walmart, Yonghui, Better Life and other supermarket chains, to recruit more than , sorters, packers and other store staff in more than  cities nationwide. JD Logistics, a unit of Chinese ecommerce giant JD, will offer over , frontline positions, such as warehouse workers, sorters, couriers and drivers. It has already hired  employees from more than  companies that partner with JD in various capacities. In addition, JDs supermarket chain Fresh has launched a talent sharing plan. Under the plan, Fresh will hire shortterm staff from restaurants, hotels, cinemas and other retail establishments that are temporarily closed due to the epidemic for job positions including shop clerks, packers, delivery staff and more. It is JDs responsibility to work with partners and help them and their employees get through this hard time, said Cao Chunhua, head of human resources at Fresh. Employees who are hired during the special time will undergo an orientation process and be provided with necessary protective supplies such as surgical masks. They will also be given regular temperature checks to ensure the overall safety of the work environment, and will receive novel coronavirusrelated insurance. JD also plans to hire thousands of parttime customer representatives on top of the hundreds it already employs. Zhou Guangsu, an associate professor with the School of Labor and Human Resources at Renmin University of China in Beijing, said the platform economy has not only stimulated the growth of consumption, but also promoted the upgrade of consumption, injected new vitality into the economy and boosted employment.