Shanghai to hone its edge in investment
2020/4/22 10:10
German table tennis legend Timo Boll.  BERLIN  German table tennis legend Timo Boll is determined to appear at the postponed Tokyo Olympics in . Ive been told that all those qualified this year will be able to compete next year as well. Its very comforting, said the year old  Beijing silver medallist in a recent Xinhua interview. His goals havent changed, even though he will turn  next March just before the Games. My goals dont change because of the postponement due to the coronavirus crisis, the  European Champion commented. Boll talked about his contacts with his Chinese fans, lonely sessions against a robot in times of restricted training, and the challenges of home training in combination with having to entertain his daughter. He talks about homemade masks, the desire to return to tournament and league action, and his online training platform timobollwebcoach.com. The German said he is going to contact former Chinese Super League teammates like Ma Long. I want to hear how things are for him and his family. If I remember right, they are expecting their second. He said he has kept a continuous contact with fans in Wuhan and Hongkong. I just had to tell them they are not alone in hard times. Now, as they are on the way back to normal, it seems the other way around. He posts news clips produced in my home TV studio as often as possible. Boll stressed that he is confident about his future as an athlete as he is still able to perform at a worldclass level. Ive talked to several players that survived longer injury break at an older. I feel prepared for the new challenge. Their comments and experience gave me new confidence, he said after a fiveweek injury break due to muscle problems. Boll said he would have loved to have competed at the Olympics this year as I was in the best shape and expected to perform well. The Tokyo Games will be Bolls sixths. The  China Open champion said the  Games wouldnt be the final chapter for him. Im still excited about table tennis and intend to continue as long as possible. His club contract with Borussia Duesseldorf runs until , but Im considering extending it. At present, he is taking things as easy as possible to give his body a rest as things will get back to tight as soon as we are allowed to return to action. He called the postponement extremely frustrating for athletes who intended to retire after the Olympics. Im fortunate as the postponement doesnt affect me that much. Others have to readjust their future plans as they have taken a break from their normal jobs to live their dream of sports for a certain period, stressed the world No. . For him, life as a tabletennisprofessional, things just go on, he added. After brief home training on the backyard table and the new investment of an ergometer, Boll is back to training two or three times a week in a hall after being given permission by local health authorities. German national coach Joerg Robkopf is at some sessions. It will take some time to get back to high intensity, he commented, adding until then a table tennis computer of his sponsor Kuka has to do the job. At present, his sixyearold daughter Zoey Malaya is enjoying her father being at home. She is missing her friends, of course, and after several weeks, we need to be creative to avoid boredom, the German said, adding things are work well. He admitted to having rarely left the house and if he did, he used a homemade mask from his wife Rodelia and disposable gloves. For Germans, it might be strange to wear masks as Asian people are much more used to it. But it is necessary to take every precaution. Even after decades of daily training, Boll admitted he couldnt wait for major tournaments and national league games to start again. I know we have to wait until August, at least, but I cant wait for regular action. This sport is my desire.