Olympic Games at age  not final chapter, says legend Boll
2020/4/22 8:35
Hong Kong has done quite well in battling the coronavirus pandemic since January. For a time, we were comparing Hong Kong with Singapore, which at the time was praised for its publichealth strategy. But now, Hong Kong has just passed the , mark in the number of infected cases while Singapore has more than eight times as many. Of course, when it comes to battling a pandemic, simply looking at the infection numbers doesnt give the full story. But they are still indicative of the current situation, the efforts being made and also their effectiveness. By examining these infection figures, we can understand why Hong Kong is doing better at this point in time. First, we are, in some ways, still reeling from the painful experience of the outbreak of severe acute respiratory syndrome in  when Hong Kong saw a total death toll of . Fastforward to , Hong Kongers have developed a better sense of personal and public hygiene. Secondly, the government was quick to enact socialdistancing measures by closing schools in February and ordering public servants to work from home to slow down the spread of the virus. Many other places, such as France, Spain, and the United Kingdom, have recently followed suit and enforced social distancing. There are many ways to battle this pandemic, but first and foremost is implementing social distancing and suspension of social gatherings to prevent crowds from forming in public places so as to avoid new clusters of outbreaks. Other measures on the personal level include washing and sanitizing hands frequently and being mindful of what we touch, such as our faces. But one effective measure is the wearing of a face mask in public, as proved by the low infection rate in Hong Kong as compared to the West. The wearing of a face mask offers twoway protection for ourselves and for others. Hong Kong is a crowded place, and we often come into contact with each other in close quarters in public such as in elevators, on the streets, on public transport, etc. This means that face masks are important as a first barrier to help us fend off and slow down the spread of the virus. It goes without saying that all these preventive measures have been done in tandem, and the citys collective efforts have led to Hong Kong becoming one of the places with the lowest infection rate and number of deaths. Last but not least, we must applaud the good work of our medical professionals, both on the front line and at the management level. We owe it to them for having worked tirelessly to protect and care for us and for the patients now being treated in hospitals. We cant deny the fact that Hong Kong so far has an edge over Singapore. Hong Kongs socialdistancing measures may have appeared extreme  and dare I say draconian  at first, but Singapores comparably lax enforcement of social distancing has not been rewarded with as much success. In fact, Singapore has experienced a  percent spike in the number of new cases over the past two weeks infections have appeared in communities such as preschools and migrantworker dormitories. The citystate reported , new cases on Tuesday, taking the national total to ,. By comparison, Hong Kong recorded four new case on Tuesday  the th consecutive day of singledigit increases  bringing the total to , cases. Following Hong Kongs example, the Singaporean government has now taken the decision to enforce school closures and encourage maskwearing in public. Furthermore, it has banned all social gatherings and closed all businesses except essential services. It goes to show that despite earlier criticism, Hong Kong has had the right approach and its perseverance has certainly paid off. The key difference that is worth noting is that Hong Kongs socialdistancing measures were progressively implemented since late January the closure of public spaces offered an incentive to private sector companies to follow suit. Hong Kong people were deeply scarred by the nightmarish experience of SARS  years ago, but it was by learning these harsh lessons that the city was able to exercise greater vigilance when tackling COVID. As for Singaporeans, normal life appears to move on, and it would appear that many are still exercising not nearly enough caution, and are continuing to flock to public areas as they usually do. But this not to say that Hong Kong has been perfect in this respect. There is still room for improvement for Hong Kong as the government measures could have been introduced even earlier, and they could have been even stricter. For example, after the emergence of the Buddhist temple cluster in North Point in February as well as cases arising from weddings and restaurants, the government could have banned social gatherings and reduced restaurant visits a lot sooner. And then with people returning from overseas in March, we saw young people ignoring selfisolation orders, and disregarding public safety. Some even, wearing tracking wristbands, went out to dine and pursued their daily routines. Whatever their reasons, the government should have meted out severe punishments to deter them during the early days. Ultimately, we need everyone in Hong Kong to work together to fight this virus. But first and foremost, we need to have selfdiscipline. When education and selfdiscipline fail, the government should not hesitate to introduce strict penalties to deter offenders. When these people defy health warnings, they are not only endangering their own health but that of others, including medical personnel they are putting the safety of nearly  million people at risk. Finally, I must remind the likes of Tanya Chan Sukchong, the Civic Party lawmaker, to abide by her sworn duty as a legislator. She was recently found to be holding a meeting with about  people inside a bar that is less than , square feet. Wasnt this a clear violation of the socialdistancing measures in force? Its clear that she was knowingly acting against the socialgathering ban. Chan is a barrister, so she knew full well that she was going against her principles of upholding the rule of law and as a legislator. I am deeply disappointed that she either deliberately or unknowingly broke the law when she is supposed to set a good example, especially after she condemned others during a Legislative Council session for defying the socialgathering order and therefore increasing the workload of our medical personnel. My thoughts also go out to those who attended the meeting with Chan and hope all of them are virusfree. Finally, I want to sound a stern warning about the need to have selfdiscipline, and for those who defy this warning Be prepared to receive harsh punishments for your selfish behavior. As for the government, it must deter these lawbreakers to remind all Hong Kongers that we must remain vigilant until we beat this virus. We must be grateful and thankful for the accomplishments achieved in Hong Kong  as many other places appear to be fighting a losing battle at least for now. As for Hong Kong, we must keep our guard up and avoid becoming complacent. Singledigit figures among new cases in recent days are certainly encouraging, but we cannot afford to slip back into our old ways. Now, more than ever, patience is essential to keep moving forward. The views do not necessarily reflect those of China Daily. ?