All expats treated equally, says FM
2020/4/22 5:35
File photo?personal protective equipment, or PPE.  The British Chinese Community Group donated , medical gowns to the Guys and St Thomas NHS Foundation Trust in London on Monday, to help ease the shortage of personal protective equipment, or PPE, on the frontline of the United Kingdoms fight against the COVID disease. The donation, made under the We Care NHS initiative, was mainly organized by the London Chinatown Chinese Association and a local Chinese community group called Zhejiang UK Association. The donors raised money and collected medical supplies from more than  local Chinese communities and Chinese people in the UK. Deng Zhuting, president of the London Chinatown Chinese Association, said during the donation ceremony that the donated medical supplies represent the hearts and minds of more than  Chinese community groups and individuals. They would like to show their appreciation to the NHS during the pandemic and to help in any way to protect the NHS staff in their selfless endeavor to save lives and beat the virus, he said. David Lawson, chief procurement officer for Guys and St Thomas NHS Foundation Trust said We are pleased to confirm receipt of , protective gowns, essential and timely for our work fighting COVID, and to thank the British Chinese Community for this generous donation. According to the organizer of the initiative, about , surgical masks and other medical equipment is on its way to the UK. At present, medical staff in the UK who are fighting on the frontline against COVID are facing a lack of PPE. According to guidance from Public Health England revealed in the Guardian newspaper on Friday, healthcare workers have been told to reuse disposable PPE. On April , a donation was made by China Chamber of Commerce in the UK, or CCCUK, member, the Bank of China, including  ventilators and . million pieces of PPE, to the Lord Mayors Appeal. The items will be passed to the National Health Service as well as care homes and to local communities. Deng Zhuting second from left, representing the British Chinese Community Group, makes the donation to the Guys and St Thomas NHS Foundation Trust in London on Monday. Photo provided by Gao Tianyin