Mahjong, poker venues targeted amid new cases
2021/8/4 8:27
A medical worker works at a nucleic acid testing spot in Nanjing, capital of East Chinas Jiangsu province, July , .  Official says  patients in Jiangsus Yangzhou found to have visited sites To contain the spread of COVID, Jiangsu province has suspended , mahjong and poker lounges, the provinces Information Office said on Tuesday. Zhou Minghao, deputy director of the provincial health commission, said at a news conference on Tuesday that about  percent of the  locally transmitted cases reported in Yangzhou involved mahjong enthusiasts, and the rest were their close contacts. On Tuesday, Yangzhou, a popular tourist city, saw  new locally transmitted COVID cases, mostly involving elderly mahjong enthusiasts. Most of them are senior people age  and above, Zhou said. He said that all those confirmed to be infected in Yangzhou have been sent to Nanjing, the provincial capital, for treatment, including the patient zero who transmitted the virus from Nanjing to Yangzhou. That patient, a yearold woman surnamed Mao, is suspected of impeding the prevention of infectious diseases and is under investigation. Mao arrived in Yangzhou on July  from Nanjing, which had already banned people in COVID risk areas from leaving the city. Without reporting to the community where she lived in Yangzhou, Mao frequented many local restaurants, stores, walkin clinics, farm product markets and mahjong lounges in the following six days. She visited a hospital due to cough and fever on July  and was confirmed the next day as having Yangzhous first locally transmitted case of COVID. However, she still refused to share her travel history when police launched an investigation. Maos neglect of regulations resulted in COVID spreading widely in downtown areas of Yangzhou and has had severe ramifications, according to police. Yangzhou, in the interest of timely epidemic intervention, has offered a reward of up to , yuan , for information that leads to locating people who played mahjong in three lounges where people who have confirmed COVID cases had registered. Anyone reporting a person playing mahjong in the three lounges will be rewarded , yuan, while an additional , yuan will be given if the person who is reported is confirmed to be infected with the virus. Jiang Yan, a teacher from one of Yangzhous top elementary schools, said she was not too optimistic about the citys prevention work. I dont think that the virus can be contained soon, she said. I know that many of the senior people in Yangzhou dont take preventive measures seriously. Some of them dont wear masks, nor do they possess a smartphone that can allow telecommunications companies to trace them. Some even refuse to admit that theyve been to mahjong lounges, because they are afraid that their children might blame them for going to risky places and bringing the virus home, Jiang said. Zhou, the health official, said that experts have been sent to Yangzhou, Huaian and Suqian to help with the prevention and control work. Health workers across the province will be sent to Yangzhou to help conduct nucleic acid tests. On Monday, Jiangsu reported  locally transmitted cases. The province has reported  locally transmitted cases since July . Local authorities reported six cases on Monday in Hunan province, three in Hubei province, two each in Henan and Yunnan provinces, and one each in Beijing, Shanghai and Fujian province, the National Health Commission said on Tuesday.