COVID Why is medical system in metropolises so vulnerable?
2020/4/21 17:02
? A woman wearing a protective face mask, following an outbreak of the coronavirus disease COVID, walks past the Olympic rings in front of the Japan Olympics Museum, in Tokyo, March , .  BEIJING  The International Olympic Committee IOC explained on Monday that the Tokyo Olympic Games were scheduled to  instead of  because the host country could not manage a postponement beyond next summer. Our Japanese partners and the Prime Minister made it very clear that Japan could not manage a postponement beyond next summer at the latest. It is a mammoth undertaking, both for the Organizing Committee and the country as a whole, the IOC said in a QA post. First of all, you need to secure the availability of the Olympic Village, since that is at the heart of the Games. The same applies to all the sports venues. Thousands of people will need to carry on working. All the partners, sponsors and regional and local governments need to pull together. Postponement will involve restrictions and compromises on the part of everyone involved. There is no blueprint for postponement, but the IOC is very confident that all the complex parts will come together and give us a marvellous Games. The postponement also caused financial difficulties to some International Federations IFs which rely on the dividends of the Olympic Games. We are conscious of the impact of the COVID outbreak on the International Federations and have already started discussions with them on which role the IOC can play in addressing this situation, including support in accessing government and other support programmes which may be available. The IOC also made clear that athletes who finish serving their antidoping suspensions before the Tokyo  unveils in  could be eligible to participate in the Games. WADA, as the global antidoping regulatory body, has clarified that under the current rules, doping bans are chronological and not eventspecific. The IOC has tried on several occasions to introduce rules that would exclude athletes convicted of doping from the subsequent Olympic Games. This has never been allowed by the Court of Arbitration for Sport CAS, the IOC stated. The IOC added that it will continue to support WADA to take measures to protect clean athletes and ensure that the Olympic Games Tokyo  and the qualifying events are held in the best possible conditions under current. Samples taken during preGames testing will be retested as soon as improved testing methods become available after the current restricted testing period.