Regional cooperation vital for virus response
2020/4/21 15:00
Passengers of a chartered flight wait for boarding at Singapore Changi Airport in Singapore, February , . Xinhua Since I first came to Singapore on Christmas Eve in  as an exchange student, never had I thought I would be fleeing the tropical citystate some  years later during a horrifying global pandemic. As I completed my duty in Singapore on March , I initially booked a redeye flight on April  to Shanghai to immediately depart Singapore. The flight was, however, rescheduled to the afternoon of April . The rescheduled flight was then canceled again for the new Chinese aviation regulation that airlines can operate only one flight per week for every air route. I rebooked a ticket for an April  afternoon flight. A few days later, my flight was rescheduled for a third time to April . I was not relieved until April , the day in which I received a call from the airline confirming that my flight was on. I was further relieved arriving at Changi Airport, when I saw my fellow passengers taking all sorts of preventative measures to keep them and others safe. Most had two layers of masks. Many even wore professional medical gowns. For those not in full protective armor, shower caps, rain boots, rain coats, snorkeling goggles, plastic gloves and disposable shoe covers were resorted to guard against any possible contamination with the coronavirus during the trip. When checking in, strict social distancing was implemented and each of us was screened for forehead temperature. In the next step, passengers bound for China had to go through immigration control with the assistance of an officer, whereas those who went to Indonesia, for example, could still make use of the automated clearance system as usual. While waiting to board the plane, people sat apart voluntarily without talking too much to each other. I was particularly struck by the extent to which the COVID outbreak had taken a toll on Changi Airport. Once the busiest aviation hub in Southeast Asia, it was nearly brought to its knees by the invisible enemy facing humanity. Lights were dimmed, if not switched off. No shops or indoor attractions were open except for a few scattered food kiosks selling coffee and snacks. It is thus no wonder that Changi has reported a steep drop in passenger traffic of over  percent in March compared to the same period last year. The worst may be yet to come. On the flight, although food and water had been prepacked in paper bags, few passengers consumed them. Fewer passengers used the toilet during the fivehour flight. Cabin crew checked our temperature twice midflight, and we filled out a health and travel declaration form. Sitting next to me was a YearFour graduating student from Zhejiang University who should have been carrying out her finalyear project at the National University of Singapore. She had to shorten her research trip due to the lockdown regime known as Circuit Breaker in Singapore. An almost empty departure hall at Singapore Changi Airport in Singapore, March , . Xinhua Our plane landed at Shanghai Pudong International Airport at around . p.m. We went off the plane orderly in groups of  to  and passed body temperature scanners through specially arranged channels. Welcome home! airport staff members warmly greeted us along the way, as medical teams vigilantly stood by in case interventions were needed for symptomatic passengers. After being briefly interviewed by officers about the trip, we were tested for coronavirus up the nose and in the back of throat in wellorganized medical facilities converted from airport shuttle buses. The medical worker who attended me was very friendly, reassuring and gentle, thus greatly reducing the discomfort of swab testing that I had feared. We were then bused to a randomly assigned hotel. It was  a.m. on April  but two health workers from the Community Health Center of Shanghai Wusong Street Baoshan District had been waiting for us in the wind. They first passed me a bowl of instant noodles and explained patiently the detailed procedures of checking in the hotel, declaring health condition, monitoring personal health during the day quarantine period and disinfecting the bathroom when necessary. The total expense was , yuan, which included  nights of hotel accommodation  yuannight and three meals per day  yuan delivered to my doorstep. The charge was quite reasonable given the general price level in Shanghai. The only pressure point of the whole process was an excessive reliance on digital declarations. Repeatedly we had to fill forms and generate health codes using smartphones through scanning QR codes. The number of smartphone users in China is projected to reach more than  million in . Several passengers who shared the flight with me had difficulty accessing the internet via their mobile phones. An old auntie from Shandong didnt have a smartphone at all. In the end, I helped her with all the digital declarations, otherwise she would be trapped in the airport for failing to file information online. It would be better if the less internetliterate passengers and the elderly could have alternative, paperbased means of declaration. Apart from this, my long winding yet safe journey home made it absolutely clear to me that the professionalism, dedication and determination of the Chinese government, health workers and customs officials alike have collectively built a marvelous fortress to keep imported cases of coronavirus infection at bay C and to keep China and us Chinese safe. I salute my home country and feel extremely grateful and proud to be holding a Chinese passport especially during difficult times like these. China is here to protect and care.