Xi Cooperation, solidarity key to contagion fight
2020/4/21 12:08
? An US flag flutters in the wind in a residential neighborhood in Livonia, Michigan, US amid an outbreak of coronavirus disease COVID on April , .  The state of Michigan has come under fire from protesters after the governor extended one of the most stringent stayathome orders in the United States, barring residents from traveling between residences, buying nonessential items and holding public and private gatherings. I think the order was absolutely necessary, Democratic Governor Gretchen Whitmer said on NBCs Meet the Press on Sunday. It wont do any good if we dont take this seriously and jump back into life as it was and have another stay home order later in the year. Extensions to the states Stay Home, Stay Safe order went into effect on Saturday and will be in place until May . The order bars all Michigan businesses from inperson operations that are not necessary to sustain or protect life. It also asks large stores to cordon off areas that sell paint, garden supplies and furniture to stop large groups from entering stores. Residents cant visit malls, restaurants, someone in a hospital or in a nursing home. And the order states All Michiganders must stay in their homes unless theyre a part of the critical infrastructure workforce  or performing tasks  like going to the hospital or grocery store. They are, however, allowed to pick up prescriptions, exercise outdoors, walk pets and fill their cars with gasoline. Residents may also return to Michigan to a home or place of residence from outside the State and leave the State for a home or residence elsewhere. Michigan ranks as the third state in the nation with the most COVID deaths behind New York and New Jersey. It has some , confirmed coronavirus cases and , deaths. The virus has hit hard in Detroit. Skylar Herbert, a yearold from Detroit, died Monday. Her dad was a firefighter and mother a police officer. Whitmers measures to stop the spread of COVID have been met with anger and opposition by Republican lawmakers and thousands of protesters who took to the streets in antiquarantine demonstrations last week at the state Capitol in Lansing. The demonstrators stood in groups on the steps of the state house ignoring social distancing rules while demanding the state be reopened. Others hung out of their trucks, honking their horns in disgust. Some carried rifles and wore American flag hats and camouflage gear. Many wore masks, others did not, as they held handwritten placards mainly against Whitmer that read Lock her up and Live free or die and Half wit got to go. Our community is struggling. My husband is on unemployment for the first time in our lives, a protester waving an American flag said. We want to go back to work. Another protester added Were tired of not being able to buy what we need, go to the hairdresser, get our hair done, its time to open up. US President Donald Trump also criticized Whitmers order at Saturdays White House Coronavirus Task Force meeting. He said She has things, dont buy paint, dont buy roses, dont buy. ... I mean shes got all these crazy things. He said that he understood why protesters had taken to the streets. Theyve got cabin fever. They want to get back. They want their life back. Their life was taken away from them. Yet Michigan residents prefer how Whitmer has handled the COVID outbreak compared with Trump, according to The Detroit Regional Chambers survey of  people. It found  percent of residents approved of her handling of the pandemic, while  percent said the same about Trump. Nationwide, protests against stayathome orders have taken place in Ohio, North Carolina, Minnesota, Utah, Virginia and Kentucky. On Monday, hundreds demonstrated in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania. The United States has more coronavirus cases than anywhere else in the world, with more than , infected and at least , dead as of Monday.