Salute China My winding yet safe journey back home from Singapore
2020/4/21 11:52
Boeing  Max fuselages are seen parked outside the companys production facility in Renton, Washington, US, Jan , .  China Development Bank CDB Financial Leasing Co said Monday it canceled an order for  Boeing  MAX jets, dealing another blow to the US giant and its stock. In light of evolving aviation market dynamics, weve been working together with Boeing over many months to recalibrate our MAX orderbook to be in line with our longterm view of the market and related opportunities, Xuedong Wang, chairman of the CDB Aviation unit of CDB Financial, said in a statement. The announcement follows a string of cancelations for the  MAX jet. Last week, General Electrics leasing unit, GE Capital Aviation Services, canceled an order for  undelivered MAX jets. But the company has  MAX jets in its fleet and retained orders for  more. The agreement will help GE Capital Aviation Services better align our available fleet with the needs of our global customer base, Greg Conlon, CEO of GEs aircraft leasing company, said in a statement. Boeing said it is putting about , people back to work this week building passenger jets at its Seattle, Washingtonarea plants, with virusprotection measures in place, including face masks and staggered shifts, The Associated Press reported. Avolon Holdings, a Dublinbased aircraft leasing company, The Associated Press reported, two weeks ago canceled its order for  MAX jets and delayed delivery for others. Airlines worldwide have cut back on flights as demand for air travel has collapsed during the COVID pandemic. Boeing last month reported about  cancelations for the MAX. That boosted the total for the year above . A year ago, the company planned to increase production to meet strong demand for its topselling jet. The MAX has been grounded worldwide since March  following crashes in Indonesia and Ethiopia that killed a total of  passengers and crew. In January, the company temporarily halted production of the  MAX. Boeing hopes the  MAX will be recertified for commercial service this summer, but the US Federal Aviation Administration said there is no deadline to get the plane back in the air. Boeings stock closed Monday down . a share, or . percent, at .. The week range is  to  a share.