Seeds of friendship bloom
2020/4/21 11:25
A staff member put on a mask for a child at a polling station in Bamako, Mali, on Sunday, during the second round of legislative elections in the country.?HABIB KOUYATEXINHUA NEW DELHIIndia recorded its biggest singleday spike in the novel coronavirus cases on Monday as the government eased one of the worlds strictest lockdowns to allow some manufacturing and agricultural activity to resume. An additional , infections were reported over  hours, raising the national total past ,. Meanwhile, the governments of the states of Telangana, Punjab and Delhi have decided not to ease the lockdown restrictions despite the federal governments guidelines to gradually allow some economic activities starting from Monday. In Japan, the authorities secured more hotel beds in response to the increasing number of new COVID confirmed cases as the total number rose to , on Monday. The government had secured over , hotel rooms to treat those patients, said Japans Economy Minister Yasutoshi Nishimura, as a Kyodo News survey found that the hospital bed vacancy rate for patients suffering from the virus is less than  percent in urban areas. Separately, the Japanese government will expand its new economic stimulus package to . trillion yen . trillion to fund cash handouts and ease the economic pain of the outbreak, sources close to the matter said on Monday. In Israel, the government agreed on Sunday to ease economic restrictions as well as the closure, doubling the proportion of returned workers from  percent to  percent, as the country saw a smaller increase in the number of confirmed cases. As a result, stores may reopen after following the rules of hygiene and social distancing. The government also allowed sports activities, involving up to two people, and prayers for up to  people, both up to  meters from home. In New Zealand, the authorities will ease a nationwide lockdown next week after claiming success in stopping an uncontrolled explosion of the disease, Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern said on Monday. And the country would move its maximum Level Four COVID alert to Level Three from April  and remain there for two weeks to assess the situation, Ardern said. The announcement means businesses deemed safe can reopen, along with some schools, limits on local travel are also relaxed and gatherings of up to  people allowed for events such as weddings or funerals. Social distancing rules will however remain. Egypt on Sunday received a batch of anticoronavirus materials donated by Xinjiang Uygur autonomous region, including , surgical masks, , N masks, , protective suits and , test kits. Another batch of the materials will arrive in Egypt soon, and a third batch is under coordination between the two sides. Lockdown extension In Zimbabwe, President Emmerson Mnangagwa on Sunday extended the lockdown by two weeks to contain the spread of the outbreak, which has infected  people in the country and killed three. He said the lockdown would continue as the country had not yet met conditions set by the World Health Organization to lift the measures. Mali registered  cases as of Monday. On Sunday, the second round of legislative elections kicked off for voters to choose the remaining  of the  deputies for the countrys national assembly. The government urged voters to strictly respect the health guidelines. At the centers visited by the media, the security forces scrupulously ensured that people washed their hands and distributed masks at the entrance. Wang Xu in Tokyo, Xinhua and agencies contributed to this story.