Some US states begin to ease restrictions
2020/4/21 11:24
People are seen wearing masks at St Jamess park in London on Sunday, as the spread of the coronavirus continues in the United Kingdom.?SIMON DAWSONREUTERS It now looks as if many more elderly people with novel coronavirus have died in United Kingdom care homes than first thought, according to a group that represents notforprofit providers. The National Care Forum, known as the NCF, believes at least , elderly and disabled people died in a single week in the nations residential and nursing homes. The most uptodate government figures put the total number of deaths in care homes at , as of April . Vic Rayner, the NCFs executive director, said it is time that the virusrelated deaths of elderly people are included in daily government updates. Our current national debate on how to mitigate and exit this crisis is virtually entirely centered on the management of the peak within hospitals, the BBC quoted her as saying. We are overlooking how this crisis is playing out in other settings, which are there to protect those who are most vulnerable to the impact of the virus. The NCF made its claim in a report released against the backdrop of opposition politicians and pressure groups in the UK calling on the government to ensure deaths in care homes are included in the official daily update of viruslinked deaths. Previously, the government has said carehome deaths are being recorded, but that the process for doing so is slower than that for hospital deaths and cannot, therefore, be incorporated into the daily total. Major flaw Virusrelated deaths in care homes, hospices and private homes are measured separately to hospital deaths and are released each week by the Office for National Statistics. But the NCF said that, in addition to the delay in the governments issuing of data from care homes, the discrepancy between official figures and its own estimates suggest there may be a major flaw in the official data. The organization came up with its estimate of , deaths in one week after collecting information from care homes it represents the facilities look after more than , people in the UK. Those , people equate to around . percent of the total number of people in such institutions in England and Wales. The report claims that, if the  virusrelated deaths at NCF care homes between April  and April  were to be extrapolated to represent the entire population of UK care homes, around , people with novel coronaviruscaused COVID would have died in care homes that week. Other organizations in the care sector have released their own sobering estimates of the scale of the problem recently. Care England, which represents large providers in England, said it had recorded , more deaths than usual in its care homes during the past two weeks. Health consultancy Candesic conducted research for the Financial Times that found care home deaths totaled at least ,. The Care Quality Commission, Englands health and social care regulator, has said it wants to clear up the confusion around just how many people are dying in the UKs care homes and is working to provide more detailed information.