Stocks stumble as oil prices plummet
2020/4/21 10:47
A Dprinted oil pump jack is seen in front of a displayed stock graph and  Barrel words in this illustration picture, April , .? US stocks slumped Monday as investors surveyed the economic damage caused by the coronavirus pandemic and considered gloomy prospects for a sustained rebound as oil prices hit the bottom of the barrel. On Monday, the Dow Jones Industrial Average lost . points, or . percent, and closed at ,.. The SP  slipped . percent, while the Nasdaq Composite fell . percent. The stock market had posted backtoback weekly gains for the first time in about two months prior to Mondays skid. Traders desperate to avoid owning oil fled the markets on Monday, sending crude futures into negative territory for the first time ever, in recognition that the coronavirus pandemic has sapped demand for fuel and there is not enough storage for the massive glut of oil present on US soil. Investors sold the May futures contract due to expire on Tuesday in a series of waves. At one point, the contract hit negative . When the trading stopped, crude oil had finished the day at a negative . a barrel, a decline of some  percent, or . a barrel. That unwanted oil is instead going into storage, but in the United States, storage is filling up much more quickly than anticipated. Cushing, Oklahoma, the tiny town of less than , people that serves as the main US storage hub, was  percent full as of last week, and traders say it will be full within two weeks. A man with a face mask is seen at a gas station in New York, on April , .  The price decline is good news for drivers pulling up to the pump for a fillup, but bad news for hydraulic frackers who need higher crude oil prices of about  to  a barrel to operate profitably. The Chicago Board Options Exchanges Volatility Index rose . percent from its previous close. The forwardlooking fear index gauges the stock markets expectation of volatility in the next  days. Its derived from the SP  options. On Friday, the Dow closed up . points, the SP gained . points, and the Nasdaq Composite climbed . points. The SP , a broader index than the stock Dow, dropped  percent between Feb  and March , as the economy largely shut down amid the coronavirus pandemic. It has regained about  percent, but some investors question the strength of the rally and have shorted cruise lines, hotels, resort and technology stocks. Despite recent gains, shortsellers believe some sectors of the market will fall. A shortseller bets that the price of a stock will decline. The shortseller borrows shares for a specified period and sells them to others willing to pay the current price. If the shares fall, the shortseller buys them back at the lower price and returns them to the owner, typically a broker, and pockets the profit. But if the shares rise, the shortseller takes a loss. Some hotels have closed during the outbreak, and the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has prohibited cruises into July, making the sectors subject to shortselling. Demand for air travel has collapsed as COVID spread. On Monday, United Airlines said it lost . billion in the first quarter. In early trading, the companys stock lost . a share, or . percent, and closed at . a share. The week range is .. a share. But some companies, including Walmart, Campbell Soup and Kroger, have performed well as people shelter in place. Shortsellers are likely to be aggressive as long as the market remains volatile and produces wide swings between positive and negative territory. CocaCola, Delta Air Lines and Netflix will report earnings this week, giving investors further insight into what the coronavirus has done to the economy. Reuters contributed to this story. ?