Trade hub aims to reclaim ancient glory
2020/4/21 10:15
An offshore oil platform is seen with a tanker in the distance on April ,  in Huntington Beach, California.? NEW YORK  The soontoexpire May contract for the US oil benchmark went into a free fall to finish deeply in negative territory on Monday, as the energy market continued to reel from the dual demandsupply shock amid the COVID pandemic. The West Texas Intermediate WTI for May delivery shed ., or nearly  percent, to settle at . a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. The negative finish means producers would be paying buyers to take oil off their hands. It marks the first time an oil futures contract has traded negative in history, according to Dow Jones Market Data. The May contract expires on Tuesday. The June WTI contract fell more than  percent to . per barrel. The global benchmark Brent crude for June delivery decreased . to close at . a barrel on the London ICE Futures Exchange. Exchangetraded funds with oilrelated assets also dipped noticeably on Monday due to the crude price crash. Meanwhile, Wall Streets major averages tumbled with the Dow closing down nearly  points. The SP  energy sector slid . percent, among the worstperforming groups. Traders tried to unload positions ahead of the contracts expiration, contributing to the historic drop, experts noted. On Monday, traders with long positions scrambled to get out amid fear that it would be difficult to find a place to park physical oil amid a rising glut of crude. We attribute the WTI price weakness to the imminent expiry of the May contract tomorrow, Giovanni Staunovo, a commodity analyst at UBS Global Wealth Management, told Xinhua on Monday. Weaker demand tied to the COVID pandemic and a potential supply glut is a more severe problem. The decline in more liquid futures contracts reflects the broader problem we have in the oil market  severe oversupply in Q, said Staunovo, adding that with oil inventories trending higher over the coming weeks, the June contracts are likely to stay under pressure. For the energy world, the knockon economic effect from the pandemic was an immediate deep impact on global demand, sending fuel prices plummeting, said researchers at Columbia Universitys Center on Global Energy Policy. An oil pumpjack stands idle amidst the coronavirus pandemic in Signal Hill, California, US, on April , . ? Major oil producers have announced cutbacks in production in hopes of stabilizing the energy market, but many analysts say it is not enough to offset the pandemic shock. The Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries OPEC and its allies led by Russia, a group known as OPEC, agreed to reduce output by . million barrels per day bpd for May and June after four days of talks. Global oil demand is expected to fall by a record . million bpd yearonyear in , the International Energy Agency IEA warned in its newlyreleased monthly report. The IEA said demand in April is estimated to be  million bpd lower than a year ago, down to a level last seen in , due to COVID as containment measures have brought mobility almost to a halt. We are also running out of places to store oil as demand has cratered, Chris Low, chief economist at FHN Financials, said in a note on Monday. The WTI continued to come under heavy pressure as inventories in Cushing, a key US oil hub, have ballooned, while Midwestern refining margins tanked, noted experts at JBC Energy. Inventories have ballooned by  percent to about  million barrels, according to a recent report from the Energy Information Administration. Capacity at the hub is about  million barrels, according to the IEA. Many analysts believe headwinds remain on the energy market in the foreseeable future. We think it is too early to become outright bullish on the oil and gas sector given the many uncertainties around the supply and demand factors, market strategists at UBS said in a research note, adding there are still opportunities in risks. We are also convinced that the global oil industry will survive this crisis and that the recent selloff has created opportunities in the sector, they said. A man with a face mask is seen at a gas station in New York, on April , .  Trump to consider halting Saudi oil imports, says US has plenty President Donald Trump said on Monday that his administration was considering the possibility of stopping incoming Saudi Arabian crude oil shipments as a measure to support the battered domestic drilling industry. Well, Ill look at it, Trump told reporters at a daily news conference after he was asked about requests by some Republican lawmakers to block the shipments under his executive authority. Trump said he had heard the proposal immediately before the news briefing. We certainly have plenty of oil, so Ill take a look at it, he said. US crude oil futures collapsed to trade in negative territory for the first time in history on Monday, amid a coronavirusinduced supply glut. Futures ended the day at a stunning minus. a barrel as desperate traders paid to get rid of oil as storage space was close to running out. The collapse in prices has threatened to tilt the oncebooming US oil industry into bankruptcy. Trump described the drop as shortterm and stemming from a financial squeeze, but said the oil industry was hurting from a lack of demand, as states have imposed stayinplace restrictions to curb the spread of the virus. The problem is no one is driving a car anywhere in the world, essentially. ... Factories are closed, businesses are closed, Trump said. We had really a lot of energy to start off with, oil in particular, and then all of a sudden they lost  percent,  percent of their market. He said the global producer group known as OPEC had agreed to cut production by some  million barrels per day, and said weak prices could force more declines for economic reasons. They have to do more by the market, its the same thing over here. If the market is the way it is, people are going to slow it down or theyre going to stop. Thats going to be automatic, and thats happening, Trump said. File photo taken on March ,  shows an operating oil pump in Luling of Texas, the United States.  US President says aims to top up US emergency oil stockpile Trump reiterated that his administration plans to top up the nations emergency crude oil stockpile as prices plunge. The Department of Energy is in the process of leasing some of the roughly  million barrels of available space in the Strategic Petroleum Reserve to US oil companies to help them deal with dearth of commercial storage as the coronavirus outbreak crushes domestic energy demand. The administration initially wanted to purchase the crude oil directly, but Congress has yet to approve the funding. Asked if he still wanted lawmakers to approve the funding, Trump said the space in the SPR would be filled either way. US oil prices plunge to negative territory on dual demandsupply shock.  Shanghai crude oil futures open lower Crude oil futures opened lower Tuesday in daytime trading on the Shanghai International Energy Exchange. The most active crude oil contract for June delivery was down . yuan . to open at  yuan a barrel. China launched the crude oil futures trading, which is open to overseas investors, in March .