Inspiring Jilin woman named among national role models
2021/11/9 15:05
Zhang Chaofan is honored as a national ethical role model at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing on Friday. Photo provided to chinadaily.com.cn Over the past six years, Zhang Chaofan has donated . million yuan , and raised . million yuan from the public to help more than  people with health problems  including teachers with cancer, disabled children and autistic children in poor families  learn traditional Chinese culture. She has also made more than  public welfare speeches at universities and in poor mountain areas, teaching selfrespect, selfconfidence, selfreliance and selfimprovement. Zhang, , was born without a left forearm in Changchun, Jilin province, but her constant drive to become stronger has inspired many. She was chosen along with  other honorees on Friday to receive the National Ethical Role Model award at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing. In addition to the top award winners,  nominees were recognized. In , Zhang declined an offer of postgraduate study from Beijing Technology and Business University and set up a calligraphy and painting school in Changchun. When she found that some parents were unable afford their childrens education fees, she made the lessons free and began providing , yuan annually to help them through her foundation. I think its important for teenagers to receive quality education because they are the future of our country, she said. I will make every effort to help them get equal opportunities to pursue their dreams and inspire them to do their best. In early , her school was forced to suspend all courses because of the pandemic, but she didnt stop her public welfare activities. Uniting and mobilizing power from all sectors of society, she raised materials and donations worth more than . million yuan. Then she sent medical masks, protective suits, disinfectant and daily necessities to workers on the front lines of the antivirus fight. Females in the new era should have the courage to create value and also have sense of social responsibility, she said. It is my great honor to be elected as a model. This will become a driving force for me to forge ahead and pass on the seeds of public welfare through even greater efforts. The National Ethical Role Model award is given by six departments of the central government, including the Publicity Department, Central Civilization Office, AllChina Federation of Trade Unions, Central Committee of the Communist Youth League, AllChina Womens Federation and the Political Work Department of the Central Military Commission.