Shipping alliance serves many BRI economies
2020/4/21 9:26
? Team China captain Wu Haiyan.  Olympics within touching distance as tough times bolster Chinas womens team After enduring a tumultuous start to the year, Chinas womens squad is more determined than ever to book a ticket to the Tokyo Olympics. Now recovered from a rollercoaster ride of a qualifying tournament in Australia, where the beginnings of the coronavirus pandemic wreaked havoc on its preparations, the Steel Roses Tokyo chances now rest on a playoff against South Korea. After a stressful time of late, head coach Jia Xiuquans Steel Roses could be forgiven for sounding a little weary. True to their nickname, however, they are again displaying a steely resolve  and they certainly wont be using the delay of the Tokyo Games as an excuse. Its hard to say if the postponement is advantageous to us or not. As players, all we want is to qualify for the Olympics as soon as possible. But for sure we will face difficulties, captain Wu Haiyan told media from the squads training base in Suzhou, Jiangsu province, on Sunday. The aim of the training camp is to help us restore body strength and physical condition. The team does warmup training as well as practicing attack and defense tactics. Off the pitch, we always wear masks. Each of us has a separate room at the hotel, and we have a onepersonpertable policy when we have meals to keep distance from each other indoors as much as possible. Coach Jias squad came through a tough thirdround qualification tournament in Australia in February after all Group B matches had to be relocated from Wuhan, the then epicenter of Chinas COVID outbreak. The switch saw Team China lose both home advantage and a number of core players, including former Paris SaintGermain playmaker Wang Shuang. Wuhan native Wang remained at home for months in the Hubei provincial capital, which was locked down from late January until early April. The squad also faced numerous virusrelated logistical difficulties Down Under. However, Jias squad refused to wilt in the face of these mounting obstacles to book a playoff berth against South Korea. The twolegged playoff was originally scheduled for March, but the coronavirus pandemic forced the Asian Football Confederation to twice rearrange the matchesinitially until April and then once again until June. A third rescheduling is now in the pipeline after world governing body FIFA announced early this month that all international matches in June will be postponed. That was a tough period, Wu recalled about the squads time in Australia. We couldnt even train as usual on the pitch or in a gym. We could only train in our hotel rooms as we faced medical quarantine. But the key for us is to keep united as a team. The difficulties have only brought us closer together. As a team, we faced and solved the challenges together. After two months of selfquarantine, star player Wang along with two of her national teammates, Yao Wei and Lyu Yueyun, finally rejoined Team China in Suzhou after the lockdown of Wuhan was lifted on April . A week later, the national squad announced all three players had tested negative for COVID and they resumed full training with the rest of the squad. During the epidemic, the national team has been concerned about the safety of the players who stayed in Wuhan, said Jia. To be responsible for the teams safety and the health of all players, the national team has been strictly following the local epidemic prevention policies in Suzhou during the training camp. During the quarantine, the three players psychological condition was stable and they kept doing basic training in their hotel rooms During this special time, the players are more united than ever and have displayed true tenacity. Wang revealed the prospect of finally rejoining her teammates left her too excited to sleep, and added that the support of Team China had helped her get through lockeddown life in Wuhan. At the very early stage of the epidemic, the head coach wanted us to return to the team as soon as possible, said the yearold. To help the three of us who stayed in Wuhan, our coach tried his best to coordinate with various organizations. He cared about us, and I never felt abandoned. Mentally speaking, I kept stable. The coach always communicated with me. He told me to not give up, saying that I will make it to the Olympic qualifier. At first, I was anxious, but after getting through all this time of quarantine, Im much calmer now.