Xiamen offers new rail route to Europe
2020/4/21 9:13
A staff member wearing a face mask arranges stacks of Chinese yuan banknotes at a bank in Nantong, East Chinas Jiangsu province, on Jan , .  China has plenty of room to use macroeconomic policies to cushion the impact of the novel coronavirus outbreak and the countrys longterm fundamentals for better economic development remain unchanged, the top economic regulator said on Monday. We have the confidence, conditions and capabilities to accelerate the push for a return to the precrisis economic status quo and achieve the annual growth goal for economic and social development, said Yan Pengcheng, director of the department of national economy at the National Development and Reform Commission. Yan said the coronavirus is the worst global crisis since World War II, which had a major impact on the economy and society in both China and across the world. The negative growth of Chinas economy in the first quarter is not historically comparable, Yan said at a news conference in Beijing. The economic downturn is not a normal reflection of the fundamentals of Chinas economic development, but the result of a serious, sudden incident. In fact, Chinas business is gradually back to normal with the help of government measures to fight the coronavirus epidemic, as major industrial enterprises had an average work resumption rate of  percent by April . Yan said China now faces new challenges due to the global spread of the epidemic and the government will continue to take measures to ensure orderly work resumptions and maintain economic and social stability. The focus is on a more proactive fiscal policy and a more flexible and appropriate monetary policy to hedge against the epidemic impact. He said the government will continue to adopt new measures to support companies, especially the hardhit small and mediumsized companies, including further reduction of taxes and fees, costs and rents. It will also help exporters to secure orders and market share as well as find new opportunities in the domestic market. While the rest of the world continues to deal with the fallout from the forced lockdown of its citizens and the stifling of its economies, the Chinese government is already adapting to a postpandemic world, said Lily Ma, head of cloud computing firm Nutanix in China. Ma said the country has begun mobilizing resources to ensure businesses and economy rapidly recover and are better prepared to survive and thrive any future crises, and the United Statesbased company has seen new business opportunities in the countrys pursuit of a digital future amid the epidemic. Yuan Da, the NDRC spokesperson, cited recent reports released by business organizations, indicating the work returns of the US and Japanese firms in China and their willingness to increase investments in the country. Yuan said China will resolve any issues that foreign companies may face in resuming work and production, and probusiness policies for domestic enterprises shall apply equally to foreign firms. According to Yuan, the government will further widen market access for foreign investment. China has revised the negative list for three consecutive years from  to , and the number of items on the list has reduced from  to . In the next step, China will shorten a negative list that is off limits for foreign investors, pursuing higherlevel opening up in the fields of services, manufacturing and agriculture. A new catalog for encouraging foreign investment will be released this year, with focus on promoting highquality development in manufacturing, and allowing more foreign investors to enjoy preferential policies.