US oil price turns negative for first time in history
2020/4/21 7:54
This file photo taken on Jan ,  shows visitors wearing face masks as they walk inside the Venetian casino hotel resort in Macao.  Chief Executive of the Macao Special Administrative Region Ho Iatseng on Monday made his first policy address since taking office in December, pledging to utilize the fiscal reserve to maintain economic stability and peoples livelihoods as he forecast the regions first budget deficit since its return to the motherland in . Addressing the Legislative Assembly, Ho also stressed that the SAR will safeguard the one country, two systems principle, utilizing the central governments favoring policies to drive the citys recovery from the epidemic and ensure stable development. With a decline in financial revenue caused by the fallout from the pandemic, the SAR government will have a budget deficit in the  fiscal year, the first time since , Ho said. Macao has a total fiscal reserve of over  billion patacas  billion, Ho said. The government will implement a proactive fiscal policy, by increasing expenditure and cutting taxes and fees, to ensure economic stability, Ho said. Expenditure will be increased in public investment on transport, public housing and government facilities to stimulate employment, Ho added. Measures will also be implemented to maintain employment and relieve residents financial burden, he said. To stimulate the tourism and gaming sectors, which are Macaos pillar industries, the SAR will ask the central government to extend the individual travel visa scheme to more mainland cities. It will also talk with the Guangdong provincial government, to further relax visa restrictions for Guangdong residents visiting Macao. As of Monday, Macao had a total of  cases of coronavirus infection. It has not reported new cases for  consecutive days. To contain the virus, the government shut down all casinos for  days in late February. Ho stressed that the government will continue its efforts to diversify Macaos economic structure, such as the development of innovation and technology. It will also strengthen cooperation with neighboring cities under the GuangdongHong KongMacao Greater Bay Area outline, especially with Zhuhai in the Hengqin free trade zone. Ho also pledged reform of the citys governing system, improving the structure of the government, to ensure a more effective administrative team. Gu Mengyan contributed to this story.