Gansu provides TCM to Belarus
2020/4/20 20:09
Gansu province has provided traditional Chinese medicine to Belarus for the prevention and treatment of COVID. Photos by Luo Yunfanfor chinadaily.com.cn A shipment of , traditional Chinese medicine prevention and treatment remedies donated by Gansu province is set to be transported to Belarus on Wednesday. According to provinces foreign affairs office, the remedies were prepared by the Gansu Health Commission and Gansu Provincial Hospital of TCM over the past week. The province also provides COVID treatments in Russian to help that countrys fight against the epidemic. On Friday, medical goggles, protective masks, disposable gloves, shoe covers, nasal oxygen tubes and other protective materials donated by Gansu Jiantou Construction Co  a leading enterprise in GansuBelarus cooperation  arrived in Minsk, capital of Belarus. Gansu Jiantou and Gansu Province Urban and Rural Development Investment Group have provided antiepidemic supplies including protective clothing and masks to Zimbabwe, Nepal and elsewhere.? The province has provided epidemic prevention materials to Iran, France, Spain, Romania and other countries, as well as its sister provinces and cities. Gansu province has provided traditional Chinese medicine to Belarus for the prevention and treatment of COVID. Photos by Luo Yunfanfor chinadaily.com.cn Gansu province has provided traditional Chinese medicine to Belarus for the prevention and treatment of COVID. Photos by Luo Yunfanfor chinadaily.com.cn Gansu province has provided traditional Chinese medicine to Belarus for the prevention and treatment of COVID. Photos by Luo Yunfanfor chinadaily.com.cn Gansu province has provided traditional Chinese medicine to Belarus for the prevention and treatment of COVID. Photos by Luo Yunfanfor chinadaily.com.cn Gansu province has provided traditional Chinese medicine to Belarus for the prevention and treatment of COVID. Photos by Luo Yunfanfor chinadaily.com.cn Gansu province has provided traditional Chinese medicine to Belarus for the prevention and treatment of COVID. Photos by Luo Yunfanfor chinadaily.com.cn Gansu province has provided traditional Chinese medicine to Belarus for the prevention and treatment of COVID. Photos by Luo Yunfanfor chinadaily.com.cn