Collective action is Zimbabwes key to fighting COVID
2020/4/20 16:19
Police and soldiers patrol the streets during a nationwide lockdown called to help curb the spread of COVID in Harare, Zimbabwe, April , .  Over  million in cash has so far been received from backers, Vice President Kembo Mohadi has said, as collective effort energizes Zimbabwes battle against the spread of COVID. Financially hamstrung by recurrent droughts and a sluggish economy, the coronavirus has added an unprecedented strain on the treasury, forcing the government to issue an international SOS totalling . billion to combat hunger and the coronavirus. The health system is wrecked and failing from an acute shortage of critical medicines, workers and equipment to effectively respond to COVID. Announcing the National Disaster Fund last week, Finance and Economic Development Minister Mthuli Ncube said the scale and seriousness of the coronavirus was mammoth for the state to bear alone. The government, for its part, has to date largely disbursed ZW million . million toward combating COVID and another  million for the import of health equipment and sundries, but thats barely enough. China is one of the countries that has stepped forward to physically prepare Zimbabwe against the pandemic. Guo Shaochun, Chinese Ambassador to Zimbabwe, said China had donated , medical masks, , medical protective suits,  infrared electronic thermometers, , medical isolated eye patches, , pairs of sterile latex surgical gloves, , surgical shoe covers and computers for videoconferencing. Additionally, Chinese businesses have refurbished and expanded the capacity of Wilkins Infectious Hospital, a key testing and isolation center in Harare, for ,. Like other African nations, Zimbabwe has equally benefitted from the generosity of Jack Ma of the Alibaba Foundation, who donated , laboratory diagnostic test kits, , medical masks and , protective suits and face shields. Our bond with Zimbabwe was forged in the hard days when we fought together against colonialism. When your brothers are in difficulty you do not need any motivation to help, Ambassador Guo said. No country can handle a pandemic of such magnitude all by itself, or declare victory when others remain under attack. We are ready to assist other countries in this fight. We will stand side by side with Zimbabwe to protect the safety of its people. The church, individual citizens and the private sector, which is leading at least four initiatives, are all galvanising support to help a besieged nation. Owners of St Annes Hospital, the Catholic Church and the Solidarity Trust Zimbabwe have united to prepare the bed hospital as a COVID response center. Industrialist Busisa Moyo is leading Iambyo, a business initiative mobilising support for Ekusileni Hospital, which will be Bulawayos largest isolation center. Thorngrove Hospital and Mater Dei Hospital will also be used as testing and isolation centers. There are over  experts working on this initiative. Our first priority is to equip Ekusileni and Thorngrove  beds in total. Mater Dei is building an  bed facility behind the hospital, he said. Through the Citizens Initiative, the United Statesbased Zimbabwean Freeman Chari has raised ,. In a message to mark the countrys th anniversary of independence on Saturday, President Emmerson Mnangagwa specifically thanked China, the United Kingdom, the US, European Union, the United Arab Emirates, the World Health Organization and Ma for supporting Zimbabwes fight against COVID. Our present experiences, in the wake of this pandemic, teach us that friends and investors may assist us. However, it is the collective effort of our nationals across all sectors that will make a difference, he said. Presently, the country has recorded  positive cases of coronavirus and three deaths.