Digital technologies make Chinese cities smarter amid epidemic
2020/4/20 11:48
Packed medical supplies donated by Jack Ma Foundation and Alibaba Foundation were packed and ready for shipping at Guangzhou Baiyun International Airport in Guangzhou, South Chinas Guangdong province, March , .  El Salvador, one of the smallest economies in Latin America, regards help from China among others as earning precious time for its fight against the pandemic and says that following aggressive containment measures the spread of the virus has stabilized. With limited resources, El Salvador was among the first countries to shut its borders before it recorded any COVID case. Much needed help has come from the other side of the world, with Beijing and some of Chinas biggest companies pitching in. China had come to the aid of El Salvador in fighting the pandemic, the Chinese embassy in El Salvador tweeted recently. At the request of the Salvadoran government, both parties are working closely to obtain medical supplies with the humanitarian donation of China for ,. The internet commerce company Alibaba, along with the Jack Ma Foundation, set up by Alibabas founder, is providing medical equipment and supplies to El Salvador. El Salvadors President Nayib Bukele said the country can use all the help it can get and tweeted his thanks for donations, including , masks , test kits and five ventilators. We all know that no government is  percent ready or able to cope with this, since this has taken everyone by surprise, said Christian Differ, a popular commentator. And once the virus reached the country, every second counted. Until today the government has prioritized its efforts, and the aid provided by Alibaba has arrived at a good time, because our country has many deficiencies and today the most relevant issue for the government is healthcare. Manuel Flores, president of the Salvadoran Association of Friendship with China and an opposition member of Congress, also stressed the good relationship that the two countries have built. Donations like the one from Alibaba showcase the goodwill of China to help not only El Salvador but also many countries in Central America and in the whole region. And not only Chinese companies and the Chinese government are sending help the Chinese community has joined forces to deploy aid on the ground as well. The Chinese community in the country, which is estimated at about , donated disinfectant and , face masks to the national police to help them cope with the virus on the streets. All this aid is helping the government to be better prepared and to coordinate what is needed amid this pandemic, Differ said.The crisis is just beginning and the government is in a race against the clock. All the help is very welcome.  These donations have bought us time, and thats priceless.