Key question asked over financial firepower
2020/4/20 9:10
Reigning UFC womens strawweight champion Zhang Weili of China will take on Polands Joanna Jedrzejczyk in Las Vegas at UFC  on Saturday. Photo provided to China Daily BEIJING  Reigning UFC Womens Strawweight champion Zhang Weili returned to China on Sunday, after being stranded in the US for over a month due to the global COVID outbreak. I cant wait to go back to my homeland! I was too excited to sleep last night, Zhang wrote on her WeChat social media account. The yearold was crowned Chinas first ever UFC champion in August , and defeated Joanna Jedrzejczyk in Las Vegas last month to retain her strawweight belt. But with worldwide COVID containment measures currently restricting international travel, Zhang had to endure a lengthy journey in order to travel to the US and defend her crown. I can still remember the morning call we received at  oclock on February . UFC told us that if we werent able to catch a flight to Thailand, we wouldnt be able to go to America later, recalled Zhang. The US announced on January  that it would bar entry to the country by most foreign nationals who had recently visited China. I was so anxious but couldnt do anything else. So my team and I had to hurry and grab some clothes and essentials. We had no idea when we would be able to return home. Two hours later, Zhang and her whole team were on the way to the airport. It took weeks for Zhang to travel from China to Thailand, then to Abu Dhabi, and finally to America. It was a tough and unforgettable journey. After traveling for more than two months, I really missed my home. Zhang will now undergo a mandatory twoweek quarantine after arriving at Tianjin Binhai International Airport. She could have spent the next month sharing her joy with her family but missed the best chance due to her packed postfight schedule. We really looked into all the plans but chose to stay here and not risk piling more pressure and danger, not only to us, but also to all the people who were already fully stretched by COVID, Zhang wrote in her diary. Zhang and her team rented a house in Las Vegas and kept on training there. We hardly went out. Thanks to my lovely Chinese neighbor. Though we had never met before, she sent us some rice and masks because we couldnt find them anywhere, said Zhang. Fans also sent her training equipment to help her keep in form. I felt so touched by peoples kindness and friendliness, especially in such a hard time, she added. Enditem