Diplomacy holds key to future
2020/4/20 0:00
The novel coronavirus pandemic could help China and neighboring countries step up nontraditional security cooperation for a stronger community with a shared future, as President Xi Jinping has been committed to promoting neighborhood diplomacy based on the principles of friendship, sincerity, mutual benefit and inclusiveness, experts said. Since the start of the outbreak, which has involved more than . million confirmed infections and , deaths worldwide, China has been working with its neighbors to overcome the unprecedented common threat caused by COVID through bilateral or multilateral mechanisms, and to make joint efforts to offset the impact of the epidemic on their economic development. Xi has used headofstate diplomacy to strengthen unity with other leaders in the fight against the contagion through meetings, telephone conversations and correspondence, in order to jointly promote regional and global public health security. During his latest diplomatic interactions with neighboring leaders last week, Xi told Russian President Vladimir Putin over the phone that they should coordinate the two countries actions to fight the virus. Xi and Kyrgyz President Sooronbay Jeenbekov also pledged to strengthen solidarity and cooperation at the bilateral level and in the Shanghai Cooperation Organization. All the leaders agreed to jointly contribute to global public health security and economic recovery. A report released last week by the China Institute of International Studies said that in a globalized world, interconnectedness and interdependence among countries have helped to create a community with a shared future. Since a further nontraditional security threat caused by something similar to COVID could emerge in the future, China and neighboring countries should take the joint fight against the epidemic as an opportunity to strengthen their teamwork based on the existing cooperation mechanism, the report suggested. Addressing a special meeting on responding to the COVID pandemic involving the leaders of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations plus China, Japan and South Korea on Tuesday, Premier Li Keqiang said the battle against COVID has made us more aware that we are in a community with a shared future. He called on the countries to send a message of partnership, solidarity and mutual assistance to boost confidence in the region and beyond. A joint statement issued after the videoconference reaffirmed the countries shared commitment to strengthening solidarity, enhancing cooperation and mutual support among them to control and contain the spread of the pandemic, and addressing the adverse socioeconomic impacts of the pandemic. China and South Korea established an intraagency mechanism in midMarch to strengthen communication and coordination in epidemic prevention and control. During a videoconference held on Friday by ViceForeign Minister Le Yucheng and his South Korean counterpart, Cho Seiyoung, they reached a consensus on facilitating travel by key personnel between the two countries while epidemic prevention and control measures remain guaranteed. Wang Huiyao, president of the Center for China and Globalization, a Beijingbased think tank, said regional cooperation has played a significant role in combating the virus, and the increasing solidarity among governments and communities in East Asia will promote further regional integration. While fighting the pandemic, countries should also learn the lessons that we all live on one earth with a shared future, Wang said in an article published on the website of the China Global Television Network. Through cooperation, the East Asian community will eventually defeat COVID and build a brighter future. When China was at the most difficult time after the disease broke out in January in Wuhan, leaders from more than  countries and plus international and regional organizations offered their support to its fight against the epidemic, and more than  countries and international organizations provided material aid. Its neighbors including Russia, Japan, Pakistan and South Korea were among them. Cambodian Prime Minister Samdech Techo Hun Sen, Mongolian President Khaltmaa Battulga and Pakistani President Arif Alvi visited China and met with Xi to express their firm support for the countrys efforts in fighting the virus. Masaaki Taniai, chairman of the International Commission of the New Komeito Party of Japan, said the novel coronavirus outbreak has reminded us that no country alone can deal with such a challenge. Countries must pool wisdom, united as one, and make concerted efforts. His party stands ready to strengthen cooperation with the Communist Party of China and other political parties in sharing experiences on epidemic prevention and control, and coordinating economic policies in order to cope with the current difficulties, Taniai said in a message to a recent online conference of Asian political parties themed Forging Synergy against COVID. Speaking during the same conference, Sujata Koirala, leader of the Nepali Congress and former viceprime minister of Nepal, said the coronavirus pandemic is a new challenge for the entire world.We cannot blame one country or the other we have to come together to fight this mysterious virus. The CPC, along with more than  political parties from over  countries, issued a joint open letter earlier this month calling for closer international cooperation against COVID. We are aware that the virus respects no borders, and no country can respond to the challenges alone in the face of the outbreak. Countries must enhance their consciousness of a community with a shared future for mankind.  Closer international cooperation, coordinated policies, concerted actions and mobilization of resources and forces globally will enable us to defeat this virus, a common enemy to all of humanity, the letter said. While working to curb the domestic spread of the outbreak, China has also been supporting the global COVID fight to the best of its ability. It has sent  medical expert teams to  countries, including its neighbors such as Cambodia, Pakistan, Laos, Myanmar, the Philippines, Kazakhstan and Russia. The Chinese medical experts also shared their epidemic control experience with foreign counterparts via videoconferences. Moreover, China has provided medical supply assistance to other countries and facilitated them to purchase urgently needed antiepidemic materials from China to overcome medical supply shortages amid the pandemic. Zhou Fangyin, president of the School of International Relations at Guangdong University of Foreign Studies, said the COVID pandemic has posed severe challenges to China and other Asian nations, but has also encouraged them to enhance cooperation. caodeshengchinadaily.com.cn ? Soldiers unload Chinese humanitarian aid from a military transport plane in Minsk, Belarus, on Friday. The special flight, arranged by Belarus embassy in China, delivered  tons of goods including rapid test kits, respirators, medical masks and medical protective suits to help in fighting the COVID pandemic. GHENADZ ZHINKOVXINHUA ? ?