Chinese medical team returns after aid mission in Philippines
2020/4/19 20:27
A medical team of  experts who aided the Philippines fight against COVID returns to Xiamen, East Chinas Fujian province, on Sunday. Photo provided to chinadaily.com.cn A medical team of  experts who aided the Philippines fight against COVID returned Sunday to Xiamen, East Chinas Fujian province. The team sent by the Chinese government arrived in Manila on April , bringing along and donating a batch of medical supplies, including surgical masks, medical N masks, medical protective suits, medical face shields, and noninvasive ventilators, according team leaders Zheng Huiwen, deputy chairperson of Fujian overseas friendship association, and Weng Shangeng, chief physician and deputy director of the First Affiliated Hospital of Fujian Medical University. A medical team of  experts who aided the Philippines fight against COVID returns to Xiamen, East Chinas Fujian province, on Sunday. Photo provided to chinadaily.com.cn During the  days, the Chinese experts communicated with the countrys Department of Health, the World Health Organization Regional Office for the Western Pacific, and local health authorities, evaluating the trend of COVID and sharing Chinas experience. In combination with the epidemic prevention measures and diagnosis and treatment procedures of the Philippines, the experts provided guidance and consultation on the prevention and control, critical disease management, clinical diagnosis and treatment, community management and laboratory work. A medical team of  experts who aided the Philippines fight against COVID returns to Xiamen, East Chinas Fujian province, on Sunday. Photo provided to chinadaily.com.cn They provided prevention and control advice, necessary protective products and traditional Chinese medicine to the local Chinese embassy, Chinese institutions, and overseas Chinese as well as others. The team members visited  local medical institutions, attended  meetings, and held six trainings  a total of more than , people participated in the trainings or viewed the videos. Their efforts were praised by the Philippine government, medical workers and the public. A medical team of  experts who aided the Philippines fight against COVID returns to Xiamen, East Chinas Fujian province, on Sunday. Photo provided to chinadaily.com.cn The timely arrival of the experts brought valuable experience from China and strengthened the confidence of the Philippine side and the overseas Chinese in the Philippines in fighting the epidemic. Before their departure on April , the Philippines side expressed their sincere thanks to China for its help. Chinese Ambassador to the Philippines Huang Xilian conveyed his sincere thanks to the national health commission, the Fujian provincial government and the provincial health commission for their assistance. A medical team of  experts who aided the Philippines fight against COVID returns to Xiamen, East Chinas Fujian province, on Sunday. Photo provided to chinadaily.com.cn A medical team of  experts who aided the Philippines fight against COVID returns to Xiamen, East Chinas Fujian province, on Sunday. Photo provided to chinadaily.com.cn