Hubei to keep community management controls in place
2020/4/19 19:24
Liu Xiaolin, a community worker, sorts out vegetables for her community in Xiangyang city of Central Chinas Hubei province on March , .  Hubei, the province hit hard by the novel coronavirus, will maintain community management measures and focus on accurate prevention and control work among key groups of people and places, a local official said on Sunday. Yang Yunyan, vicegovernor of Hubei, said the province is setting up a regular prevention and control team mainly composed of property management personnel and volunteers to prevent the rebound the epidemic, although the province has been adjusted to the state of low risk. People entering or leaving the community must register their information, wear masks and accept temperature tests, he said. Entertainment and leisure places with a closed environment such as cinemas, theaters, chess and card rooms, bars and indoor swimming pools will remain closed. Farm markets, shopping malls, supermarkets and hotels will take measures to limit the flow of people, he said. Yang noted that airports, train and bus terminals and public transport in the province will be equipped with more personnel and equipment. Service channels will be increased to minimize passengers waiting and queuing time. The province is making further efforts to screen possible asymptomatic infections and promptly include them in the treatment along with tracking the close contacts, he said. Wuhan, the capital city of Hubei, has been adjusted to the category of lowrisk area on April . However, the numbers of asymptomatic infections in the city and people returning to Wuhan from abroad continue to increase, said Li Qiang, vicemayor of Wuhan. The authorities will focus on the management of key groups such as asymptomatic people, those who had been cured but turned positive again in nucleic acid testing, and people returning to Wuhan from outside the province, Li said. While the city maintains management measures on communities, Li said staff members will also visit those who have special difficulties and the elderly who live alone on a daily basis to ensure their normal life continues.