Spain death toll breaches , as COVID rampage continues in Europe
2020/4/19 7:52
People wearing protective face masks walk past the Spanish flag hanging from the balcony above a closed store in Madrid, Spain, on April , .  BRUSSELS  The COVID pandemic continued to hit Europe, as more deaths were registered on Saturday in the continent, especially in those worstaffected countries. Spain became the second European country to have over , deaths after Italy, while fatalities in France and Britain passed , and , respectively. Across Europe, over . million confirmed COVID cases and some , deaths have been reported so far, according to the latest data from the World Health Organization WHO. Spain seeks state of alarm extension Spanish Health Ministry on Saturday confirmed that over , people in the country have lost their lives because of COVID. The daily information published by the ministry showed that  people died in the hour period until  local time on Friday, bringing the death toll to ,. The same period saw , new cases, pushing the total infections to ,. Spanish Prime Minister Pedro Sanchez said in a televised press conference later that he would ask the Spanish Parliament to extend the current State of Alarm for a further  days until May . Spain imposed the State of Alarm over COVID on March , which was extended twice until April . Sanchez said he had made the decision after listening to the experts of the Technical Committee on the crisis. We have done the most difficult things and we have left the most extreme moments of the crisis behind with sacrifice and resilience, but these results are still not enough and still fragile, he said. Despite the enormous progress that we have made, it is not possible for us to lift the confinement and move to a phase of scaling down the lockdown, said the prime minister. Tomorrow I will tell the Presidents of the  Autonomous Regions and the Congress of Deputies lower chamber in the Spanish Parliament of my wish to extend the State of Alarm until and including May . People wearing protective masks walk in an increasingly busy street in Milan, Italy, on April , .  Italy prepares for Phase Two With  more COVID deaths in the past  hours, Italy, the worsthit country in Europe, now has a total of , deaths. The total number of confirmed cases  combining active infections, fatalities and recoveries  rose to ,, an increase of , against Friday, according to fresh figures from Italys Civil Protection Department. According to the Italian government, the lockdown that went into effect on March  in the country will continue until May , which will be followed by a socalled Phase Two, involving the gradual resumption of social, economic and productive activities. Domenico Arcuri, the governments special commissioner for the coronavirus emergency, said at a Saturdays press conference For Phase Two, we are ready to supply the national territory with all the needed equipment today. This does not mean that Phase Two should begin today. Arcuri said that while it is not his job to decide when Phase Two should start, it is his job to make sure we are ready when it does. He said that there are three arrows to our bow swabs, blood tests, and contacttracing and that we will have to use them massively to keep the pandemic under control during Phase Two. The swab test refers to the coronavirus testing which takes a sample from the throat or nose. The official added that a new contacttracing mobile phone app, commissioned by the government, is being tested. The next step will be to roll it out in some parts of the country on an experimental basis. A member of the military tests a visitor at a coronavirus test centre in the car park of Chessington World of Adventures in Chessington, Britain, London, Britain, on April , .  Three other worst affected nations In the UK, which reported  new deaths in hospitals, the COVID death toll crossed the , mark to reach ,, the Department of Health and Social Care said Saturday. Meanwhile, , people have tested positive for the coronavirus as of Saturday morning, marking a daily increase of ,, said the department. The figures were announced amid growing concerns over a serious shortage of personal protective equipment PPE for frontline medical staff in hospitals. Public Health England on Friday changed its guidance, which includes asking doctors and nurses to reserve the gowns for surgical operations and procedures that are likely to transmit respiratory pathogens and to reuse items such as surgical gowns. Across the English Channel, France reported a further  deaths in the past  hours, raising the countrys death toll to ,. In Germany, the COVID death toll rose to , after reporting  new deaths in  hours. The country staggered the rest of the world with an impressively low case fatality rate, which is the number of deaths divided by the total number of confirmed cases. As of Saturday morning, Germanys confirmed cases rose by , in the past  hours to a total of ,, which entailed a case fatality rate of just under  percent.