Investors take a shine to China bonds
2020/4/17 10:15
The mostly deserted city centre is seen following the implementation of stricter socialdistancing and selfisolation rules to limit the spread of the COVID in Sydney, Australia, April , .  CANBERRAAustralia will retain restrictions on public movement for at least four more weeks, Prime Minister Scott Morrison said on Thursday, dashing speculation that the countrys sustained low growth in new cases could spur a quicker return to normal. Restaurants, bars and other nonessential businesses have been shuttered and public gatherings of more than two people banned under the threat of fines and even prison. In response, the daily rate of reported new infections has steadied in the low single digits, from about  percent several weeks ago, for a total of , as of Thursday. Still, Morrison said the rules would not be relaxed until national testing capacity had been increased, contact tracing of known COVID cases expanded and a response to any future outbreak fully prepared. In neighboring New Zealand, Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern warned on Thursday it would be far from a return to normal as the country is expected to start easing a nationwide lockdown next week. New Zealand has been one of the most successful in containing the outbreak, with just over , cases and nine deaths. It had only six new cases on Thursday. India said on Thursday that the death toll had risen to  and the total infections were at ,. This is a jump of  deaths and an increase of  cases since Wednesday evening. In Iran, the Islamic Revolution Guards Corps on Wednesday unveiled a device that can detect people infected with COVID from a distance, so a coronavirus diagnosis does not require a blood test anymore. Total infections reached , in Iran on Thursday, while the death toll was ,. In Iraq, the authorities on Wednesday decided to extend the nationwide curfew until the beginning of the holy month of Ramadan to contain the spread of the coronavirus, as the total number of infections rose to ,. A police officer and a social worker distribute vegetables to people in need in Amritsar, India, on Wednesday during a nationwide lockdown to fight against the COVID outbreak. NARINDER NANUAFP Chinas aid Syria on Wednesday received , COVID test kits donated by China to help its fight against the virus, which had infected  people and killed two by Wednesday. More Chinese aid will be sent to Syria in batches, according to Chinas Ambassador to Syria Feng Biao. In Riyadh, a team of eight Chinese medical experts arrived in the Saudi Arabian capital on Wednesday with medical supplies to help combat COVID, as the kingdom reported  new cases, taking the total number to ,. Also on Wednesday, Algeria received a second batch of medical donations from China, including face masks, testing devices, and personal protection equipment. Algeria has , confirmed cases, of whom  have died. In Rwanda, the countrys health minister Daniel Ngamije said on Wednesday that frontline doctors in Rwanda could learn from Chinese experts, who shared antiepidemic experience in hospital management, emergency response and medical staff training through a webinar. The two sides had fruitful exchanges, and the Rwandan side was able to learn from the experiences of the  Chinese experts, Ngamije said. The central African country has reported  cases with  recoveries. Agencies  Xinhua