Ten photos from across China April   April
2020/4/17 6:40
A resident takes a selfie in front of a mural on an old building in Chongqing on April . Various animalthemed cartoons were painted on the walls along an old alley several hundred meters long in the citys Shapingba district, leading many people to take pictures. CHEN CHAOCHINA NEWS SERVICE Children wearing face masks play in Jiangtan Park along the Yangtze River in Wuhan. Photo by Ke HaoFor chinadaily.com.cn Masked students practice at a ballet school in Haikou, Hainan province, on April . The school, affiliated to the Hainan provincial troupe, and other secondary vocational schools in the province, opened for senior grade students this week following the coronavirus outbreak. LUO YUNFEICHINA NEWS SERVICE Liu Gang L, a medical worker who aided the fight against COVID in Wuhan, reunites with his wife after a day quarantine at the First Affiliated Hospital of Anhui Medical University in Hefei, East Chinas Anhui province, April , . The hospitals five medical workers, who went to the coronavirushit Wuhan on Jan , reunited with their families after a twoweek quarantine carried out following their return from Wuhan on March .  Photo taken on April ,  shows blooming pear trees in Shichuan township of Gaolan county, Northwest Chinas Gansu province. The pear orchard boasts a history of hundreds of years and covers an area of about , mu  hectares. Warm temperature ushered in blooming season at the orchard recently.  Students return to Rizhao No  Middle School of Shandong in Rizhao, East Chinas Shandong province, April , . Classes restarted for some students in the final year of senior high schools and vocational schools in Shandong province.  Photo taken on April ,  shows fallen petals of cherry blossoms on the street in East Chinas Shanghai. Petals were left on the ground intentionally for  days to decorate the city view.  A resident in Wuhan, Hubei province, bids farewell to a member of the medical team from Peking Union Medical College Hospital at Wuhan Tianhe International Airport, on April , . Photo by Ke Haofor chinadaily.com.cn Farmers work in fields at Youai village of Shangshi town in Pingxiang city, South Chinas Guangxi Zhuang autonomous region, April , .  Aerial photo shows herdsmen driving livestock on the way to spring pastures in Fuhai county of Altay, Northwest Chinas Xinjiang Uygur autonomous region, April , . As spring comes, herdsmen here are busy with transferring livestock to spring pastures. 