VIEWERS DRAWN TO CONCERTS IN CYBERSPACE
2020/4/17 0:00
The stage of the Xian Concert Hall in Shaanxi province stands eerily quiet, with both the resident orchestra and audiences absent due to the novel coronavirus outbreak. Such performing arts venues have been dealt a major blow by the contagion. For example, it has forced the Xian Symphony Orchestra, which performs at the hall to large audiences, to cancel  concerts during the past three months. The cancellations included three performances last month with pianist Martha Argerich from Argentina and one earlier this month with Romanian soprano Angela Gheorghiu and Chinese tenor Shi Yijie. However, on March , Zhou Huyi, principal violinist of the orchestra, took to the stage at the concert hall for the first time since January. At the largely empty venue, he rehearsed with other musicians from the orchestra for a livestreaming concert, which will air on Bilibili, one of the countrys most popular online video sharing and entertainment platforms. It was the first time that musicians from the orchestra had performed without a live audience. Titled Bulletscreen Concert, the show focuses on three groups from the orchestra XSO Black Face, a percussion band featuring marimba player Xu Xin and xylophone player Gao Ya XSO Piano Duet, comprising violinist Zhou Huyi and pianist Li Tian and XSO Monet String Quartet, featuring violinists Wu Siyue and Shi Yinyue, violist Zhuang Shen and cellist Li Yifan. Zhou, who was born and raised in Xian and learned to play violin with his father, said We usually perform in the concert hall in front of audiences, who sit quietly and watch us play. They give us feedback with their applause and acclaim, and we reciprocate with our music. But a concert without a real audience is a fresh experience for me, which is exciting. The yearold graduated from the National University of Singapores Yong Siew Toh Conservatory of Music in  and furthered his studies at the Carl Maria von Weber University of Music in Dresden, Germany, in , where he obtained his masters before joining the Xian Symphony Orchestra in . For audiences an online performance is also a new way to enjoy classical music, which is usually considered a high and serious art form. They dont have to sit quietly and wear formal dress. They can eat, talk and share their ideas by posting comments while watching the performance, which is fun, Zhou said. Cao Jiwen, branding director of the Xian Symphony Orchestra, said the idea of performing a livestreaming concert on Bilibili arose about a month ago when the orchestras schedule was put on hold. We have built up a stable fan base since the orchestra was formed. With many concerts and public events being canceled or postponed due to the viral outbreak, people have told us that they are disappointed and they miss the orchestras performances. They would love to see a concert, but understand the situation, Cao said. Although our musicians could not get together for rehearsals, they have had hours of individual practice at home. We wanted to give it a try by holding livestreaming concerts, which is a breakthrough for classical music. Loyal following Bilibili, which uses bullet screens in videos and livestreams, has a loyal following among young fans. As a result, the concert features performances not only of classical pieces by Bach, Mozart and Beethoven, but also those adapted from popular movies and animations. Screens will be set up onstage for the musicians to read comments posted by viewers. Its a different way to interact with audiences, especially young people, Cao said. In January, the Xian Symphony Orchestra launched a series of programs on its Bilibili channel, with musicians sharing stories about classical music. We introduce the music in a simple and humorous way, and have attracted many young fans, Cao said, adding that the videos have been watched millions of times. Over the past three months, the number of the orchestras fans on Bilibili has risen from just  to more than ,. Founded in , the orchestra has recruited musicians from around the country, mostly those younger than . To bring classical music closer to the public, it has been looking at different types of performance. For example, the orchestra has held outdoor concerts at landmark sites in Xian, such as the Terracotta Warriors Museum and Big Wild Goose Pagoda. It also trains amateur singers in Xian every weekend, with courses being held online as a result of the outbreak. Weve seen many theaters and concert halls cancel their shows and even shut down because of the outbreak. Its affecting musicians worldwide, Cao said. However, we have also found that many musicians have kept their music going, either playing their instruments at home or connecting with fans online. The spread of COVID is having a significant impact on large events, including cultural and classical music performances worldwide. Major venues such as the Royal Opera House in London and the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts in Washington have closed. Pianist Yuja Wang, who canceled a European tour, said on her website on March  I am sad to share with you that I need to cancel my remaining solo tour dates in Europe. Unfortunately, due to the current climate of uncertainty, and related logistical challenges, it is not possible for me to continue the tour. Pianist Lang Langs concert in Freiburg, Germany, on March , was also canceled due to the outbreak. Home performers One of the first Chinese orchestras to perform classical music on the internet was the Beijing Symphony Orchestra. In a recording released on Feb , its musicians played English composer Edward Elgars piece Salut dAmour from their homes on the Chinese mainland and in Taiwan, under the baton of principal resident conductor Li Biao. It was the first time that our musicians had recorded a piece in this way, Li said. We want to keep in touch with audiences through online performances, which seems to be the only possible way to share music right now. Founded in , the orchestra has canceled or postponed all its performances since January, including its opening concert for the  season. The performance, scheduled for Feb  at the National Center for the Performing Arts in Beijing, was due to feature four guest performers from the Berlin Philharmonic Orchestra, including violinist Alessandro Cappone. In December, Li, who has had a successful career as a conductor and percussion soloist, was appointed chief conductor of the Beijing Symphony Orchestra. He saidPlans have been disrupted, but what we can do is engage our audiences with music as much as possible. Online performances may not be perfect in terms of the sound and visual effects, but they are a solution for both musicians and music lovers. Li invited his longtime friend, German composer Enjott Schneider, to write a new piece, Wuhan , to be premiered by the Beijing Symphony Orchestra at its first concert after the outbreak ends. Wuhan, capital of Hubei province, was the epicenter of the outbreak in China. The minute piece portrays emotions triggered by the virus, such as fear, depression, confidence and courage. It took Schneider just two days to complete. Li saidIve been friends with the composer for over  years. As musicians, we wanted to do something for people who are struggling with the virus. We discussed the theme of the piece togetherhe is a very productive composer. Schneider said I dedicated the piece to the brave people of Wuhan, who have experienced much suffering. But they had the courage to fight and defeat the virus. My composition describes the danger of the virus, the determination and strategies. In the end, there is hope of building a better world. He added that such a timeless and universal theme has been well portrayed by composers such as Beethoven. Schneider has composed hundreds of film scores and has been president of the German Composers Association since . Katherine Chu, executive director of the Suzhou Symphony Orchestra, which is based in Suzhou, Jiangsu province, saidI think the virus has had a big impact on the classical music market. Classical music is an art form that requires sharing, but the electricity that a listener can get in the live concert hall simply cannot be reproduced at home, online, or in any digital format. There is nothing like a live experience in a concert hall. The energy, dynamism, dialogue and electricity between the performers and the audience are possible only in the concert hall. Online events are a great way to ensure that people still have access to music and for them to keep safe. But they can never be a substitute for the concertgoing experience. Suzhou a second home During the outbreak, the Suzhou Symphony Orchestra has staged online concerts and lectures featuring topics related to various aspects of music. Founded in , the citys first professional symphony orchestra comprises more than  musicians with an average age of . They come from China and  other countries and regions, including Japan, South Korea and the United States. Chu said the orchestra has postponed all its performances scheduled for February, March and April. On March , its first online concert was staged at the orchestras home, the Jinji Lake Concert Hall, featuring four Russian musiciansviolinists Ekaterina Shapelnikov and Nikita Olinevich, violist Andrey Shapelnikov and cellist Daniil Zaitsev. The performance included string quartets by Tchaikovsky and Dvorak. During the outbreak, the Russian musicians have stayed in Suzhou, which has become their second home, Chu said. Olinevich, who has lived and worked in Suzhou for three years, saidThis was my first livestreaming concert, which was obviously different. But its always interesting and encouraging to play in front of a live audience... there is a feeling of this is it, and you give it your all, including general rehearsals. Everything is supposed to be as it should be during an actual performancethe lights, the audience, the applause. These things are all beyond comparison. During this health crisis, we appreciate them even more. It is challenging, but exciting as well. In a very different way, we are trying to give audiences hope through our music, and show them that even if we cant play live for them right now, our hearts are still with the music, and we are committed to doing what we love and to our audiences. I believe music has the power to heal anything and help anyone, whatever the circumstances. It is one of the biggest forces on Earth, and knows no class or race, and makes no distinctions. It is for us all, and so we will play for everyone who is listening. At the onset of the outbreak, Olinevich had to quarantine himself in Taiwan for  days before he could visit his family in Russia. Here in Suzhou, I was amazed by how quickly measures were taken to stop the virus spreading. But I definitely miss workingI cant wait to go back to rehearsals and for everything to return to normal, he said. Since Feb , the Shanghai Symphony Orchestra, in addition to streaming concerts, has held online classes on its social media platforms. Footage shows the musicians practicing at home and teaching music to those learning to play an instrument. On Jan , the orchestra, which celebrated its th anniversary last year, began livestreaming concerts, featuring individual musicians playing at home and chamber music ensembles performing in the concert hall while wearing face masks. On March , an online concert performed by a string quartet from the orchestra attracted , viewers. The repertoire included Libertango by Argentine composer Astor Piazzolla and String Quartets, Op.  by Haydn. On March , five musicians from the orchestra performed an online concert marking Beethovens th birthday, featuring works by the composer, including the first movement of his Fifth Violin Sonata and the fourth movement of his Eighth String Quartet. chennanchinadaily.com.cn Zhou Huyi from the Xian Symphony Orchestra attends a rehearsal. HUO YANCHINA DAILY A piece is rehearsed by a violinist from the Xian orchestra. HUO YANCHINA DAILY A string quartet from the Suzhou Symphony Orchestra in Jiangsu province stages its debut livestream performance last month. CHINA DAILY Musicians from the Xian Symphony Orchestra rehearse in the city, capital of Shaanxi province. HUO YANCHINA DAILY Musicians from the Xian Symphony Orchestra rehearse in the city, capital of Shaanxi province. HUO YANCHINA DAILY . Li Biao conducts a concert by the Beijing Symphony Orchestra. CHINA DAILY