New US unemployment claims top  million
2020/4/16 23:45
A driver wears a face mask and gloves as Uber and Lyft drivers with Rideshare Drivers United and the Transport Workers Union of America conduct a caravan protest outside the California Labor Commissioners office amidst the coronavirus pandemic on April ,  in Los Angeles, California. The drivers called for California to enforce the AB  law so that they may qualify for unemployment insurance as the spread of COVID continues. Drivers also called for receiving back wages they say they are owed.  Efforts to curb the spread of the coronavirus with stayathome orders continue to rip through the US labor market as an additional . million Americans last week filed firsttime jobless claims, the US Labor Department reported Thursday. The latest unemployment filings boost the total to about  million, nearly erasing all the job gains made since the Great Recession sparked by the collapse of the subprime mortgage market in . People have been asked to put their lives and livelihoods on hold, at significant economic and personal cost, Federal Reserve Chairman Jerome Powell said in a recent online discussion with the Brookings Institution. We are moving with alarming speed from year lows in unemployment to what will likely be very high, although temporary, levels. Prior to the coronavirus pandemic, the US unemployment rate was . percent. Its now about  percent. However, jobless claims for the week ended April  dropped from the previous two weeks. The damage from the coronavirus is still severe and it will take several more weeks to determine if job losses have peaked. US stock opened tepidly Thursday, but in positive territory. However, in early trading, the Dow Jones Industrial Average lost . points, or . percent, to ,.. The SP  gained . percent. The Nasdaq Composite gained . percent. Oil futures, a proxy for future economic activity, rose. West Texas Intermediate crude, the gauge for US prices, rose . percent to . a barrel. Brent crude, the worldwide benchmark, rose . percent to .. Yield on the year US Treasury bond dipped . percent. The US Labor Department said . million people filed to receive unemployment benefits for the week ended April . That followed a revised . million the prior week C a record C and . million the week before, boosting the total to nearly  million. Unemployed workers in  states receive benefits of  a week on top of state payment and some receive unemployment insurance under the federal stimulus package President Donald Trump signed into law last month. The enhanced benefits could keep claims at high levels for an extended period. Stateordered stayathome orders hit the leisure, entertainment and retail industries hard as restaurants, stores and movie theaters were closed to curb the spread of the coronavirus. The coronavirus outbreak may be peaking in some hotspots. Governors are considering how to restart the economy in their states when its safe. I do think were going to see exemptions for shelterinplace as we move to the end of the month, and then some openings in May, Mark Zandi, chief economist at Moodys Analytics, told CNBC. I think were going to get close to the apex. This week may be the apex. But the economic damage is profound. J.C. Penney, operator of about  department stores in  states, is holding talks with lenders to restructure debt or to secure financing for a possible bankruptcy filing, The Wall Street Journal reported. The companys stock closed Wednesday at . a share and is in danger of being delisted by the New York Stock Exchange. The week range is . to . a share. All stores are now closed as part of the effort to combat the coronavirus. Other retail chains, including Nieman Marcus Group and J. Crew are negotiating with creditors, the Journal said, citing people familiar with the matter.