Africas city govts need help to mitigate COVID impact
2020/4/16 16:10
? Workers are seen at a production line within the Shona Textiles Export Processing Zone EPZ as they make protective face masks and Personal Protective Equipment PPE, in Athi River near Nairobi, Kenya April , .  As African governments consolidate efforts and define stimulus measures to mitigate national and regional economic impacts of the coronavirus pandemic, the United Nations Economic Commission for Africa is calling for adequate consideration of the vulnerability of city economies. As engines and drivers of economic growth, cities face considerable risks in light of coronavirus with implications for the continents resilience to the pandemic, said Thokozile Ruzvidzo, director of the Gender, Poverty and Social Policy division of the commission. The UN agency said city governments should be supported to mitigate and respond to the economic effects of coronavirus, in addition to the immediate health and humanitarian focus. Africas cities are home to  million people and account for more than  percent of the continents GDP and even over  percent in some countries like Botswana, Uganda, Tunisia and Kenya, the UN agency said. ? A third of the national GDP, translating to  percent, comes on average from the largest city in African countries. As such, the economic contribution of cities in the region is far higher than their share of population. However, this impressive performance might be severely affected by the impacts of coronavirus. The Economic Commission for Africa said the urbanbased sectors of the economy including manufacturing and services which currently account for  percent of GDP in Africa, are expected to be hit hard by coronavirusrelated effects, leading to substantial losses in productive jobs. In particular, the approximately  million Africans in informal urban employment excluding north Africa will be at risk. The UN agency said firms and businesses in African cities are highly vulnerable to coronavirusrelated effects, especially small and mediumsized enterprises which account for  percent of employment in Africa. These risks are compounded by a likely hike in the cost of living in some African cities. Urban consumption and expenditure is likely to experience a sharp fall due to coronavirusrelated lockdowns and restrictions. This is especially the case for food, manufactured goods, utilities, transport, energy and services. Ruzvidzo said Africas cities drive consumption with their growing middle class with per capita consumption spending in large cities being on average  percent higher at the city level than at the national level. Coronavirusrelated decline in urban consumption will thus impact domestic value chains, including rural areas, she said. With the per capita expenditure of African local authorities being the lowest in the world at , the UN agency said many local authorities are poorly resourced and less able to contend with the onslaught of coronavirus. Their revenue streams are also likely to fall, curtailing their already limited ability to respond to the coronavirus crisis. The commission said the intergovernmental and national transfers which account for  to  percent of local authorities finances are likely to be reduced due to immediate national response and recovery requirements. To mitigate the coronavirus impacts on city economies, the UN agency called for disaggregation of the analysis and identification of priorities and responses at the subnational and city scales as the first step. The agency said proactive measures are needed for urban economic recovery including boosting finances and capacities of local authorities as first responders, shortterm bailouts and exemptions for small and mediumsized enterprises to limit productivity and employment loses. This is in addition to social protection for those in informal urban employment while anticipating the potential of laborintensive public work programs for job creation in the medium term. Ruzvidzo said local governments must be supported because they are better able to respond to local needs including in coordination with communitybased structures. The UN agency is proposing adequate investments to address the substantial deficits and barriers faced by city economies, as a longterm measure. With more than half of Africas population expected to live in cities in just  years, the risks of poorly planned and managed urbanization are considerably high, rendering millions vulnerable to the effects of future shocks, the agency said.