Shanghai officials early detection, contacttracing slowed COVID
2020/4/16 14:49
A nurse directs a patient for further treatment at a community health center in Shanghai earlier this month. YIN LIQINCHINA NEWS SERVICE Shanghai, a city with more than  million people, was able to slow the spread of the coronavirus with early detection and contract tracing, officials said at a symposium. A USChina symposium on COVID  TexasShanghai Experience was organized by Fudan University, Harris County Public Health and the Houston Public Health Authority. The symposium on Tuesday was conducted via Zoom teleconferencing, and  people participated, the limit allowed for the conference. So far, Shanghai has  domestic and  imported cases of coronavirus infections and fourrelated deaths. Wu Fan, leader of the Shanghai COVID Task Force and vicedean of the Fudan Medical School, told how Shanghai prevented the virus from spreading. She stressed that Shanghais success in stopping further spread of the virus came from detecting cases at the early stage, providing free and widely available tests, and conducting contacttracing of infected people. Another important step was disseminating correct information through multiple media platforms to educate the public about the disease and implement selfprotection measures, such as social distancing and wearing face masks, Wu said. Dr Zhang Wenhong, another leader of the Shanghai COVID Task Force and head of infectious disease at Huashan Hospital, shared his experiences. We do everything we can for each patient, he said. Tracing every cross contact is very important. Umair Shah, executive director of Harris County Public Healthcare, said he was impressed by Shanghais ability to detect infections early and conducting effective contacttracing. Wu, who was directorgeneral for Shanghais Center for Disease Control and Prevention CDC for  years, said three factors contributed to Shanghais contacttracing effort. We set up the CDC system C we not only have CDC at the municipal level but also at the county level  and public health network. Most importantly, we have a primary healthcare center to help our public healthcare workers. Thats a lot of human resources, she said. Second, Shanghai has in place a model to do epidemic investigations and help wellrun organizations. The third is technology. We use the big data with mobile phones. We have also set up a public health information network for many years. Everyone in Shanghai, no matter a resident or someone coming into Shanghai, if you go to a hospital, we have an archive for each one, Wu said. Mobile phones were used to track a persons movement. The new technology is very helpful to timely find the person and increase the quality of fieldepidemiology investigation, she said. Dr Edward Septimus, a professor at Harvard Medical School and a member of the MCA Health System COVID Treatment Team, said he was impressed with contacttracing in China. If we have a second wave, we dont have the diagnostic tests to test people, including a potential antibody test. We dont have the ability to do contacttracing to identify individuals to quarantine and isolate. I think thats the US challenge right now, Septimus said. According to data from covidtracking.com, as of April , about . million Americans have been tested, less than  percent of the total population. In Harris County, which encompasses Houston and has a population of about . million, the capacity to test COVID first started at  tests a day and gradually increased to the current , a day. David Persse, head of the Houston Public Health Authority, echoed Septimus comments. We have been hearing from our colleagues in Shanghai, and it sounds like identification followed by contacttracing to strict isolation and quarantine are the key. We are way behind in our ability to test mostly, the antigen tests have long turnaround times, some of them days. We need to amp up our testing, strategy of having strict quarantine, and isolation practice that the society will work with, quite honestly, he said. Different cultural attitudes about wearing a face mask also were discussed. Zhang emphasized that social distance of  feet could still be dangerous sometimes, and a mask is just another form of social distancing. Social distancing is the core strategy, and masks strengthen that strategy, he said.