Latest on the novel coronavirus outbreak
2020/4/16 14:40
A worker uses desinfectant to clean after a woman infected with COVID and who did not respect her quarantine, was found during a routine police check on Plaza de Armas square, following the outbreak of COVID in Santiago, Chile April , .  MEXICO CITY  Latin American countries reported more COVID cases on Wednesday, bringing the total number of infections to nearly ,. In Peru, a total of , new cases were reported, bringing the number of infections to , with  deaths, the Health Ministry said. We have tested , people for COVID, obtaining , positive results and , negative results, the ministry said in a statement. Seven legislators are among those who have tested positive, the statement added. In Chile, a total of , cases have been reported with  deaths, said the Health Ministry. In the past  hours,  new infections have been detected with three deaths, all of which are in the Santiago Metropolitan Region or in the La Araucania Region, the two most affected regions in Chile. Some  healthcare workers out of a total of , have been infected with the virus and have been quarantined, according to the ministry. Argentina has reported  new cases of COVID across the country within the past  hours, with the total infections reaching ,, the Ministry of Health said. Today,  new cases of COVID have been confirmed, bringing the total number of positive tests in the country to ,, the ministry said in a daily bulletin late Wednesday. To contain the spread of the virus, Argentinas capital Buenos Aires announced on Monday that it was stepping up measures to curb the COVID outbreak by making face masks mandatory on public transit starting Wednesday. Besides, all those in a position to deal with the general public are required to wear a face mask, such as bus drivers, newspaper vendors, store clerks and civil servants. As part of social distancing measures put in place by the government, supermarkets have limited the number of people shopping at one time to  and people who fail to wear face masks in public can be fined. Noelia Mendoza, a housewife, said she supports making face mask compulsory in public. I think its good, because some people who dont have symptoms may have the disease. It helps us take care of each other, said Mendoza.