New test kits give answers within  minutes
2020/4/16 14:37
Phyllis Cheung, CEO of McDonalds China, launches new chicken product through livestreaming on Bilibili on April . Photo provided to chinadaily.com.cn More than a million viewers on the videosharing platform Bilibili have watched McDonalds China CEOs livestreaming their new chicken products, leading a trend among global retail brands trying to reach younger generations as consumption has started to rebound in the country. On April , McDonalds China held a hour new product online launch event on Bilibili. During the event, the retailer handed out product coupons worth over one million yuan. The launch event included an onsite tasting of new products, a giveaway of McCrispy Chicken to delivery riders and people who work overtime, and eating chicken at the late night, among other activities. Phyllis Cheung, CEO of McDonalds China, introduced the new product ,which took nearly one year and a half to conduct research, menu development and taste testing and finally, a blind test participated by more than  people to arrive at the final decision to roll it out. Staff wearing face masks are seen at a McDonalds restaurant after the lockdown was lifted in Wuhan, the capital of Hubei province , April , .  ? Speaking on incentives to hold livestreaming launch on Bilibili, Cheung said McDonalds has always been a young brand, focusing on generation Z. They consider Bilibili as a channel to get engaged with youngsters who are techsavvy and are interested in innovations. The company said the sales of the new product on the first day have exceeded their expectations. Jason Yu, general manager of Kantar Worldpanel China, said due to the outbreak of COVID , retail and food service sector experienced severe challenges of reduced traffic and frequency, hence they have to strive to find growths to compensate for the earlier losses, Livestreaming is proving to be effective means to attract consumers attention as well as drive instant conservations. Phyllis Cheung, CEO of McDonalds China, launches new chicken product through livestreaming on Bilibili on April . Photo provided to chinadaily.com.cn Since the outbreak of Novel coronavirus, CEOs of many different sectors, including cosmetics, retail, food and beverages, have tried livestreaming as new way of engage consumers as live or offline events were cancelled. Compared with KOLs, CEOs typically know the product and the brand position very well, so they can usually be perfect KOL to drive sales through live streaming, said Yu. Meanwhile, for the catering industry, though delivery or takeout services could makeup to the losses of traffic in store, its main businesses have still been affected. Livestreaming and sending out coupons are more effective nowadays to each more consumers and bring more traffic back to restaurants, he said. Meanwhile, to keep rejuvenating their brands, an increasing number of brands have now gone to new media platforms where younger consumers gather, said Yu. McDonalds considers China as its secondlargest and fastest growing market, and the largest franchisee market in McDonalds global system outside the United States. By the end of February , there were more than , McDonalds restaurants on the Chinese mainland. In July , McDonalds formed strategic partnership with CITIC and Carlyle to operate and manage the business on the Chinese mainland and Hong Kong.