Plea to put virus work above politics
2020/4/16 14:20
? Medical staff prepare to receive patients for coronavirus screening at a temporary assessment center at the Brewer hockey arena in Ottawa, Ontario, Canada, March , .  While Canada is going full steam ahead to source vital medical supplies amid the shortage of personal protective equipment PPE during the COVID pandemic, a cargo plane bearing , pounds of PPE from Shanghai landed in Hamilton last Saturday. Another plane with , pounds of PPE arrived in Edmonton late Sunday night. The flights were part of a madeforCanada plan to deliver medical supplies from China to frontline workers across Canada. The plan stemmed from the critical need for medical masks, gowns and gloves by Canadas healthcare system during its fight against the novel coronavirus. After a month of dedicated work, various Canadian governments established channels in China to source medical PPE. Prime Minister Justin Trudeau said earlier this month that Canada has leased a warehouse in China to collect and distribute additional supplies as quickly as possible. Mississaugabased Cargojet will fly to China to secure additional supplies for Canadian governments thanks to the new supply chain for medical equipment that has been established between the two countries. Still, theres a bidding war underway for key medical supplies in North America during the pandemic. There is tremendous pressure on buyers to have boots on the ground in China, because the Americans mostly are beating us to the punch, Ajay Virmani, president and CEO of Cargojet, told the Financial Post. Theyre buying anything and everything in sight. The air carrier has scheduled an average of four or five flights a week to China for the next few weeks. The company has a team of a dozen pilots who will make the trips to Shanghai. Upon arrival, the pilots will get coronavirus tests at the airport, and they will be required to stay in China in isolation for  days if they test positive. Dominic Barton, Canadas ambassador to China, played an important role in collaborating with China to win in the global bidding war for medical supplies, according to CBC News. A federal official working on the procurement process said Canada is lucky to have Barton and praised the former McKinsey managing director as a businessperson first, adding that he has good links into China, gets China, gets Chinese business. It was said the diplomat had redeployed personnel at Canadas embassy, consulates and trade offices in China to flip their roles from selling Canada to the Chinese to buying Chinese medical supplies for Canada. Among the new suppliers is Chinas leading newenergy vehicle manufacturer, BYD, which shifted to mask production to meet the rising demand amid the COVID outbreak. The Shenzhenbased company currently is one of the largest manufacturers of face masks in the world, with a daily capacity of  million pieces. Ontario Premier Doug Ford tweeted that he received an incredible donation of , BYD Care singleuse masks from the Trillium Automobile Dealers Association last Saturday. Two weeks ago, Ford warned that his province had a very low mask supply and was about a week away from running out due to COVID. Canada has struck an agreement with BYD for the production of tens of millions of masks   percent of those are Ngrade masks needed by healthcare workers  and millions of litres of hand sanitizer, according to the Globe and Mail.