Washington approves purchase of respirators from Chinese companies
2020/4/16 11:43
In this undated file photo, students take the Hong Kong Diploma of Secondary Education Examination HKDSE. PHOTO PROVIDED TO CHINA DAILY HONG KONG  The Hong Kong Diploma of Secondary Education exams will go ahead from April  as the city sees dwindling daily counts of COVID cases, the citys education chief said on Wednesday. At a press briefing, Secretary for Education Kevin Yeung Yunhung also announced three alternative options if the local outbreak worsens, including further delaying the tests to May , or to June , or canceling them under worstcase scenario. The authorities postponed last month the HKDSE C the citys college entrance exam C to April  and canceled Chinese and English oral tests due to a surge of new coronavirus infections. The tests were originally scheduled for March . If tests are scrapped, the authorities will adopt a new assessment mechanism that will attach credits to a candidates secondary school performance, taking into account records of previous candidates from the same school, said So Kwoksang, secretary general of the Hong Kong Examinations and Assessment Authority. Schools have been told to begin these assessments, said So, adding that the assessments could also serve as references if the tests are successfully held. But the mechanism will not apply to private candidates, he said. More than , private candidates have registered for the exam this year, according to official data. More than , high school graduates will attend the exams at  test venues across the city. The written exams will last between April  and May . Results will be released on July  if the tests take place as planned, Yeung said. The official reassured that stringent infection control measures will be in place inside the test venues. The measures include requiring examinees and invigilators to wear masks, keeping at least . meters between the desks and prohibiting any candidate having a fever from attending the test.