Talk of reopening as virus toll rises
2020/4/16 11:40
US President Donald Trump addresses the daily coronavirus task force briefing in the Rose Garden at the White House in Washington, US, April , .  New Yorkers were told to wear face masks on Wednesday, as the US death toll from the COVID pandemic topped ,. As the US mortality numbers  the worlds highest from the novel coronavirus outbreak  some of the lesseraffected US states were considering a partial lifting of restrictions on business and social life by May , a date promoted by President Donald Trump. Trump said Wednesday that he would announce new guidelines Thursday for reopening the economy. The battle continues but the data suggests that the nation has passed the peak on new cases, Trump told his daily White House news briefing. There are a number of state  ,  states  that really have had limited impact from it. So I think we will see some states that are  the governors feel that theyre ready  were poised to assist them with that reopening, Robert Redfield, director of the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, told ABCs Good Morning America. While many states are treading lightly about when it will be safe to reopen, there is a growing anxiety that the process begin as soon as possible, as millions of Americans have lost their jobs, and fooddistribution lines around the country are growing. At the Michigan Capitol in Lansing on Wednesday, thousands of protesters drove by the statehouse to protest Governor Gretchen Whitmers lockdown orders. This arbitrary blanket spread of shutting down businesses, about putting all of these workers out of business, is just a disaster, Meshawn Maddock, a member of the Michigan Conservative Coalition, which organized the protest, told The Associated Press. Its an economic disaster for Michigan. And people are sick and tired of it. Whitmer, a Democrat who is considered a potential vicepresidential candidate, later criticized the motorized protest. We know that this rally endangered people, the governor said. This kind of activity will put more people at risk and, sadly, it could prolong the amount of time we have to be in this posture. The desire to restart the economy grew stronger as retail sales and factory output plunged last month, as stayathome orders went into effect in large parts of the country. New York Governor Andrew Cuomo on Wednesday ordered his states  million residents to wear masks or other face coverings when in any public situation that may not allow them to be at least  feet away from others. Cuomo said  people died in New York in the past day  down slightly from the previous day, although hospitalizations declined in a sign that the crisis was easing. Reuters has identified more than  nurses, doctors and medical technicians who have died after being diagnosed with COVID or showing symptoms of it. At least  were in New York state. The emergency room is like a war zone, said Raj Aya, whose wife Madhvi Aya  a physicians assistant in Brooklyn  was one of the healthcare workers who died in New York. On Wednesday, the government reported that retail sales dropped by . percent in March, the biggest decline since tracking began in . Consumer spending accounts for more than twothirds of US economic activity. Also, two major US financial companies, Bank of America and Citigroup, posted disappointing earnings Wednesday. Output at US factories fell the most since , as the pandemic disrupted supply chains. The mix of distressing economic news pushed all three major US stock averages substantially lower on Wednesday. Reuters contributed to this story.