Wuhan restarts Worldfirst flash memory chip released
2020/4/16 10:06
An employee of the Tokyo metropolitan government on Tuesday shows off a placard calling for people to stay home in Tokyo after the Japanese government announced a state of emergency for the capital and some prefectures. ISSEI KATOREUTERS TOKYOJapan could see more than , people die from the novel coronavirus if no measures are taken to contain infections, according to a health ministry study released on Wednesday. At the peak, , patients would need ventilators and half of them would likely die because of a shortage, the study said. Meanwhile, Komeito, the ruling partys junior coalition partner, requested on Wednesday that the government consider cash handouts of , yen  to all people regardless of income. In Iran, the authorities have extended the postponement of all sports events in the country from April  to May , the official IRNA news agency reported on Tuesday. Separately, Iran said on Tuesday that convalescent plasma therapy had been effective in reducing the death rate of COVID patients. The Islamic republic added , new cases on Wednesday, taking the countrys total to ,. The death toll rose to ,. Palestinian Prime Minister Mohammed Ishtaye on Tuesday lauded China for providing emergency medical aid, and said it would help identify coronavirus infections and reveal them at a faster pace. Earlier on Tuesday, Palestine received medical aid from Chinas Alibaba, including , testing kits, as well as medicines and laboratory supplies. Turkey expects to see the peak of the outbreak in one or two weeks, Turkish Health Minister Fahrettin Koca said on Tuesday, adding that the situation is under control. The total number of cases in Turkey rose to ,, while the death toll surged to , on Tuesday. In Singapore, the country has made it mandatory for everyone, except for children under two years old or those with special needs, to wear a mask outside of their homes in the latest bid to curb the virus following a sharp spike in cases that surged to ,. The health ministry said on Tuesday that anyone found without a mask would be fined S , while repeat offenders could be prosecuted in court and face higher fines. Appeal to teachers In Australia, Prime Minister Scott Morrison issued an appeal on Wednesday to teachers to keep schools open amid the pandemic, urging them to not force parents to choose between homeschooling their children or going to work to put food on the table. Schools in the states of Victoria, Queensland and New South Wales will remain open only for the children of parents who are unable to work from home. South Africa on Tuesday received medical supplies from China to help with the fight against COVID, as the countrys stock of gloves and masks is down to four weeks. The total number of confirmed cases in South Africa has risen to ,. In Nigeria, the country decided to impose a sevenday lockdown in its economic powerhouse state of Kano, a spokesman for the governor said on Tuesday, as the country has recorded  infections. Wang Xu in Tokyo, Xinhua and agencies contributed to this story.