Biden wants lawsuits vs vaccine plan combined
2021/11/9 10:54
US President Joe Biden delivers remarks on the authorization of the COVID vaccine for children ages  to , in the South Court Auditorium at the White House in Washington, US, Nov , .  The Biden administration on Monday defended its COVID vaccine mandate for large companies and requested that multiple lawsuits against the workplace rule be consolidated in a single federal court. At least  states plus several businesses and associations have filed a dozen legal challenges in at least six federal appeals courts after the rules were released last week. The suits against the mandate basically say the federal government doesnt have the authority to make the regulation, partly because COVID isnt a workplacespecific danger. All the states filing against the mandate have a Republican governor or attorney general. The suits have been filed in the most conservative appeals courts in the country, where appointees of former president Donald Trump are the majorities. The request by the Justice Department on Monday was in response to three judges on the New Orleansbased US Court of Appeals for the th Circuit who over the weekend gave the government until  pm on Monday to respond to a motion filed by plaintiffs for a permanent injunction blocking the mandate issued last week. The mandate  issued by the Labor Departments Occupational Safety and Health Administration OSHA  would apply to private businesses with more than  workers. Employees who dont receive the shots by Jan  would be required to wear a mask and be tested weekly for the coronavirus. The rules allow exemptions for workers citing religious objections and for those who dont interact inperson with coworkers or customers, as well as those who work only outdoors. The th circuit court said the mandate raises grave statutory and constitutional issues and blocked it pending a response from the administration. But it wasnt clear whether the emergency stay issued Saturday by the court applied nationwide or just to the states that filed in that case  Louisiana, Mississippi, South Carolina, Texas and Utah. On Monday in the St. Louisbased th US Circuit Court of Appeals, where Missouri and  other states had filed a suit to block the mandate, asked the court to enter a similar order to avoid confusion because it said the th circuits order doesnt explicitly state it applied nationwide. A group of states, businesses and organizations challenging the rule in the court also called Monday for a quick review of their challenge to the workplace rule. The Biden administration, Democratic lawmakers and many public health officials have said that the mandate is needed to vaccinate more Americans against COVID. On Monday, White House spokeswoman Karine JeanPierre defended the mandate and said the administration was confident that the mandate can withstand any legal challenges. This is an authority that we believe the Department of Labor has, JeanPierre she told reporters during a news briefing. We are very confident about it. She said the mandate was about keeping people safe and that Congress had empowered the Labor Department to act with the OSHA act of . A lawsuit led by Florida, Alabama and Georgia in the Atlantabased th Circuit Court argues that the rules clash with the First Amendment and Religious Freedom Restoration Act. This unlawful mandate is yet another example of the Biden administrations complete disregard for the constitutional rights afforded to our state and our citizens, said Georgia Attorney General Chris Carr. The federal government has no authority to force healthcare decisions on Georgias companies and its employees under the guise of workplace safety. We are fighting back against this unprecedented abuse of power to stop this mandate before it causes irreparable harm to our state and its economy.