Top  fastestgrowing companies listed on US stock market
2020/4/16 10:00
US President Donald Trump addresses the daily coronavirus task force briefing in the Rose Garden at the White House in Washington, US, April , .  President concedes governors have the power to reverse state lockdowns COVID cases in the United States rose above , with over , deaths as the debate over reopening the economy heats up. The country saw , infections with , deaths as of Wednesday morning, according to a tally by Johns Hopkins University. The hardesthit state, New York, has recorded , infections and , deaths, followed by New Jersey with , cases and , deaths. Other states with over , infections include Massachusetts, Michigan, Pennsylvania, California, Illinois and Louisiana. A sailor from the aircraft carrier Theodore Roosevelt, with hundreds of coronavirus infections, died of the disease on Monday. Four other crew members are in hospital in Guam. The carrier has been docked in the US territory for more than a week as the ,person crew is tested for the virus. The sailor who died was among  crew members who tested positive. We might well be at a point in time when the number of new cases in the United States will be peaking, and beginning to decline in the country overall, said Robert Schooley, professor of medicine at the Division of Infectious Diseases and Global Public Health at the University of California, San Diego. Meanwhile, pressure is mounting on the White House to reopen the US economy after a staggering . million US citizens filed initial jobless claims in a threeweek period ending April . During Tuesdays briefing on the epidemic in the White House, US President Donald Trump said that he intended to talk with all  governors this week, probably on Thursday, to discuss a national plan for reopening the country. Trump also said that he might try to authorize reopening some states before May , within the federally recommended time horizon for social distancing and other mitigation measures. Governors responses ? A police officer wearing a mask stands watch at Trump Tower on April ,  in New York City. New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo and the governors of six other states said they would make a coordinated plan to reopen the regional economy. Joining New York in the coalition are New Jersey, Connecticut, Pennsylvania, Delaware, Rhode Island and Massachusetts.  In a response, some US governors told Trump that he did not have authority to end their lockdowns and reopen their states. And Trump retreated on Tuesday night from his strong position of the day before when he insisted such decisions were solely up to him. He said he would leave these decisions to the governors. We dont have King Trump, we have President Trump, said New York Governor Andrew Cuomo in a CNN interview on Tuesday morning. I know its red versus blue. Not anymore. Its red, white and blue. I have , deaths in my state. This virus did not kill Democrats or Republicans, it killed Americans. During a Monday White House news briefing on the pandemic, Trump said When somebodys president of the United States, the authority is total. And thats the way its got to be. Its total. Its total. And the governors know that. Anthony Fauci, the director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, has warned that the US is not ready to restart its economy. We have to have something in place that is efficient and that we can rely on, and were not there yet, Fauci said. Schooley said We will have to continue the distancing policies in places where the epidemic may be peaking as we prepare for new surges in which distancing was late. We are, unfortunately, far from out of danger. Separately, the International Monetary Fund said on Tuesday that the global economy is on track to contract sharply by  percent in  as a result of the pandemic, the worst recession since the Great Depression in the s. This is a downgrade of . percentage points from January , a major revision over a very short period, IMF Chief Economist Gita Gopinath said at a virtual news conference on the latest World Economic Outlook report released on Tuesday. Xinhua and agencies contributed to this story.