Antitrust officials All firms treated equally
2020/4/16 9:47
Mindray employees put finishing touches to medical equipment at a factory in Shenzhen, Guangdong province, in February.  Daily Shenzhen is playing an active role in the global battle against the coronavirus pandemic, with government departments, enterprises and social organizations providing medical supplies, technology and services to help other countries weather the storm. As of Tuesday, . million surgical masks and other medial supplies from Shenzhen had been transported to  cities and organizations in  countries. Winner Medical Co Chairman and CEO Li Jianquan said the company has sold and donated more than  million masks to other countries, including the United States, Italy, Spain, Germany, France, Japan and South Korea. We expect to export  million to  million masks and over  million gowns by the end of this month, he said. Medical device provider Mindray has delivered more than , pieces of medical equipment since late January, of which about , were taken overseas, including to North America, Europe and South America, said Wu Hao, the companys executive vicepresident. So far, the company has completed delivery and installation of more than , medical devices in  days since a purchase from Italy. It also provided nearly , patient monitors, ventilators and other medical devices to Russia. Drone maker DJI has been using its small, remotecontrol aircraft to carry out disinfection task in a number of countries, including France, Spain, Italy, Serbia and United Arab Emirates. In addition to providing hardware products, it has also been offering training and technical services for those countries. To facilitate crossborder trade, Shenzhen Customs has stepped up customs clearances, with  batches of medical supplies with  million units being released each day at its peak. Social organizations in Shenzhen are also making efforts. The Shenzhen Foundation for International Exchange and Cooperation said it has worked with  social organizations in their donations of , surgical masks,  gowns, six air disinfecting machines and other medical supplies to eight sister cities since early March, including Milan, Turin, Gwangyang, Busan, Tsukuba and Bern. ?