Expert says isolation has vital role in virus prevention
2020/4/16 9:44
Lao Health Minister Bounkong Sihavong second from the left bids farewell to the returning Chinese medical expert team at the Wattay International Airport in Vientiane, the countrys capital, on Sunday. KAIKEO SAIYASANEXINHUA Editors note The following is a full text written by Chinese State Councilor Wang Yi, who is also foreign minister. The article focuses on how China has coped and dealt with the spread of novel coronavirus and how it has shared information and advanced international cooperation. The COVID outbreak has dragged the whole human race into a fierce war with a highly infectious disease on a global scale. Facing the sudden and unprecedented attack of a virus unknown before, the Chinese people are pulling together with the whole world. Looking out for each other in these trying times, mankind have written a new chapter of building a global community with a shared future. On both fronts, domestic response and international cooperation, we have followed the guidance of Xi Jinping Thought on Socialism with Chinese Characteristics for a New Era and Xi Jinping Thought on Diplomacy, fully brought to bear the strengths of our system of socialism with Chinese characteristics, and acted as a responsible major country. This has won high recognition from the international community. Friedrich Engels noted, There is no great historical evil without a compensating historical progress. Human history is a story of mankind wrestling with various diseases and disasters, always emerging stronger and more resilient. Unequivocally, COVID cannot arrest the Chinese peoples determined march toward national rejuvenation. And it cannot impede the progress of human civilizations. I Since the outbreak began, the CPC Central Committee with Comrade Xi Jinping at its core has put the peoples wellbeing front and center, acted with a strong sense of responsibility to the world, and rallied all ethnic groups in China for launching a peoples war, comprehensive campaign, and containment operation against the virus. Through massive, nationwide efforts and enormous sacrifice, we have brought the domestic outbreak well under control, and made important progress in the war. Throughout the fight, we have received heartwarming help and support from the international community, and we have played an indispensable role in safeguarding international public health security. China made a robust response and contributed substantially to the global fight against the outbreak. General Secretary Xi Jinping has described this outbreak as a major test, and has been personally directing and planning Chinas response efforts. By swiftly taking the most comprehensive, rigorous and thorough measures, the Chinese government set up an open and transparent national system for collective outbreak control in the shortest possible time. With great resolve, we made the courageous and momentous decision to suspend outbound travels from the city of Wuhan and Hubei Province. We endeavored to ensure early detection, early reporting, early quarantine, and early treatment. We saw to it that severe patients were admitted to facilities with the best resources and best professionals for effective treatment. After more than two months of strenuous efforts, China emerged as one of the first countries to stem the outbreak. New cases in China have been sporadic for a month now. Travel controls on Hubei and Wuhan have been lifted. And domestic transmission has been largely stopped. As the first country to alert the world about the virus and to grapple with a serious outbreak early on, China served as a crucial line of defense for the world. Fighting off the virus with strength, ingenuity and sacrifice, China shared important experience with the world and boosted global confidence in an ultimate victory. While battling the outbreak, China has managed to restore its economy and society step by step to a normal order. Across the country, . percent of big industrial plants have resumed production, and . percent of employees on average are already back to work. In March, Chinas manufacturing Purchasing Managers Index PMI rallied . percentage points from February. The early economic reopening of China, the worlds factory, has significantly eased the strained global medical supplies. It will also help bring the world economy back to normal at an early date. China offered constructive proposals and blazed a trail for international cooperation against the outbreak. General Secretary Xi Jinping pointed out that the virus respects no borders or nationalities, and can only be defeated when the international community fights in unity. Since the outbreak began, General Secretary Xi has engaged in intensive and important discussions with other world leaders to promote international cooperation on combating the virus. By April , General Secretary Xi Jinping held meetings or talks with Prime Minister of Cambodia, President of Mongolia, President of Pakistan and DirectorGeneral of the World Health Organization WHO. He had  phone calls with  leaders of countries and international organizations, including Russia, the United States, the United Kingdom, France, Germany, Italy, Spain, Belgium, the Republic of Korea ROK, South Africa, Ethiopia, Brazil, and Chile, and SecretaryGeneral of the United Nations. He sent messages of sympathies to more than  foreign leaders and heads of regional organizations, including the ROK, Italy, Iran, France, Germany, Spain, Serbia, and the European Union. Through these interactions, he demonstrated Chinas firm and sincere commitment to solidarity with the whole world, boosted global confidence, and led the way for international cooperation against the outbreak. At the Extraordinary G Leaders Summit on COVID, General Secretary Xi Jinping set out four proposals for fighting an allout global war against the outbreak, forging a collective response of control and treatment, supporting international organizations in playing active roles, and strengthening macroeconomic policy coordination. He also highlighted many areas of practical cooperation, such as vaccine and therapeutics development, opening up access to an online COVID knowledge center, promoting comprehensive, systematic and effective control and treatment protocols, launching a G COVID assistance initiative, jointly ensuring the stability of global industrial and supply chains, and convening a highlevel meeting on global public health security. These initiatives showed the direction for international efforts to tackle the outbreak. They have been highly commended by the international community. In addition, Premier Li Keqiang also talked on the phone with multiple foreign leaders, and attended the Special ASEAN Plus Three Summit on COVID, which reenergized antiepidemic cooperation in East Asia. China shouldered its responsibilities and provided strong support to other countries. General Secretary Xi Jinping pointed out that enhancing international cooperation in fighting COVID is a telling testament to Chinas role as a responsible major country and its commitment to building a community with a shared future for mankind. Since the start of the outbreak, China has placed great importance on and stayed actively engaged in international cooperation. We worked closely with the WHO and relevant countries, and contributed  million to the WHO. We released the information on the outbreak at the earliest possible time. We speedily identified the genome sequence of the virus and shared it with all others. Thus we have created conditions for other countries to discover and contain the virus as early as possible. We took the initiative to conduct regional cooperation on fighting the virus. We facilitated the convocation of the Special ChinaASEAN Foreign Ministers Meeting, the fifth LancangMekong Cooperation Foreign Ministers Meeting, and the ChinaJapanROK Special Foreign Ministers Video Conference. We formed a joint response mechanism with the ROK and other neighboring countries. Thus we have played a key role in containing the outbreak and maintaining business cooperation. We shared with others our control and clinical experience without reservation. We built an online knowledge center accessible to all countries. And we have published seven editions of diagnostic and therapeutic protocols and six editions of containment plans. As of April , Chinese medical experts had  video conferences with their counterparts from  countries with the focus on how to effectively tackle and defeat the virus. China sent  medical experts teams to  countries, i.e., Iran, Iraq, Italy, Serbia, Cambodia, Pakistan, Venezuela, the Philippines, Myanmar, the Laos, Kazakhstan, and Russia. It was a move highly recognized by all sides. Although fighting the virus in China remains a formidable task, we have been doing all we could to provide assistance to other countries and actively engage in international cooperation. The Chinese government and nongovernment actors have sent, and are sending, many shipments of urgently needed medical supplies to over  countries and international organizations. We made best use of our strong production capacity, and timely reopened the market and export channels for medical supplies. To date, more than  countries, regions and international organizations have signed commercial procurement contracts with Chinese exporters. Between March  and April , China exported around . billion masks, . million protective suits, . million infrared thermometers, , ventilators, and . million goggles. Aid from China, together with the already wellknown Made in China, provide a steady driving force for the global efforts in fighting the virus. China made clear its positions and helped build important consensus for mankind to stem the outbreak. Chinas victory over the virus is attributable to the strong leadership of the CPC Central Committee with Comrade Xi Jinping at its core, to the sciencebased, transparent, wellplanned and forceful measures taken by the government, to the unity and fortitude of the . billion people, and to the great solidarity, assistance and support from other countries. China has spoken up with its actions. And history will give its objective and impartial verdict. No one could discredit or distort these facts or truths. To defeat the virus, mankind needs to choose confidence over panic, unity over division, and cooperation over scapegoating. This is the position that China has made clear since the virus broke out in different parts of the world. General Secretary Xi Jinping pointed out that severe infectious diseases are the enemy of the whole human race and therefore what is needed most is a resolute, concerted and joint response from the international community. With this in mind, the Chinese foreign minister has stayed in close contact by phone with dozens of his counterparts around the world. Chinese diplomats and missions abroad are actively reaching out to the international community by way of receiving interviews, making speeches, and writing articles. More and more countries have come to appreciate and agree with Chinas position. It has become a common voice and consensus in the international community to reject any attempt at labeling the virus, politicizing the response, and stigmatizing any specific country. II The COVID outbreak is a major public health emergency, which is fastest spreading, most widely contagious, and hardest to contain in the history of the Peoples Republic of China. It is also a global crisis the world has never seen before. In face of this situation, we on the diplomatic front have been earnestly implementing the important instructions of General Secretary Xi Jinping and the decisions and directions from the CPC Central Committee and the State Council. We have scaled up efforts to maintain political integrity, think in bigpicture terms, follow the leadership core and keep in alignment, to enhance confidence in the path, theory, system and culture of socialism with Chinese characteristics, and to firmly uphold General Secretary Xi Jinpings core position in both the CPC Central Committee and the CPC as a whole and firmly uphold the CPC Central Committees authority and its centralized, unified leadership. We have taken a proactive, responsible, creative and courageous attitude to fulfill our mission with regard to fighting the virus on the diplomatic front, so as to secure an enabling environment for the victory at home, contribute our part to the international cooperation, and add another dimension to majorcountry diplomacy with Chinese characteristics. In fighting this smokeless yet fierce war, we have come to understand even more of the following First, we must unswervingly uphold the centralized, unified leadership of the CPC. The CPC is a political party that strives for the wellbeing of the Chinese people as well as the progress of mankind. Since the start of the outbreak, the CPC Central Committee with Comrade Xi Jinping at its core has stayed on top of the situation and made strategic planning accordingly. The Standing Committee of the Political Bureau met  times to address the outbreak. The Central Leading Group on Responding to the Novel Coronavirus Disease Outbreak was set up as early as possible. Indepth assessments were made about the defining features of the various stages of the outbreak and its trajectory at home and abroad. And timely and meticulous arrangements were made on key aspects of our outbreak response. General Secretary Xi Jinping has made important instructions and observations on the outbreakrelated external affairs. He personally set the direction for outbreakrelated external work with his headofstate diplomacy, and championed international cooperation with his leadership and sense of responsibility, demonstrating great composure and resolve in the face of crises. People on the diplomatic front, CPC members in particular, have readily thrown themselves into the frontline external work related to the outbreak. They have stood their ground, and dutifully carried out their missions in the domestic and international fight against the virus. Their actions spoke volumes about the core values of Chinas diplomatsloyalty, dedication, and sacrifice. What has happened since the outbreak shows that the centralized, unified leadership of the CPC not only forms the political underpinning for a successful outbreak response at home, but also gives us the confidence to work with other countries to defeat the virus. Second, we must unswervingly put people first in our work. General Secretary Xi Jinping repeatedly stressed the need to put peoples lives and health front and center in our response to the outbreak. He instructed us to give more guidance and support for overseas Chinese citizens, to convey to them the care and solicitude of the CPC and the government, and to take effective measures to protect the safety and health of our fellow compatriots. Acting on these instructions, we on the diplomatic front have prioritized peoples interests in our work, and mobilized all the resources and spared no effort to this end. We moved promptly to collect basic information of Chinese nationals abroad and their difficulties. We rallied them in a united campaign against the virus through mutual assistance. We helped them have access to local health providers and through remote diagnostics to those in China. We sent joint task forces to offer services and support. And we put in place a  special consular protection mechanism. We chartered flights to bring home Chinese citizens from Hubei and other provinces who had been stranded abroad due to the outbreak. As the outbreak continued outside China, we arranged for  ad hoc flights to bring back Chinese nationals in urgent need to return from hardhit countries. We set up an emergency response center to prevent imported cases and to serve the overall agenda of controlling the outbreak at home. We instructed our diplomatic and consular missions abroad to give top priority to Chinese students overseas and do whatever they can to address their concerns and difficulties, especially those in hardhit countries. We delivered health kits containing masks, disinfectant, antiseptic wipes and protection tips, to every student in need. We took nearly , calls in less than two months on the  consular protection hotline platform, bringing overseas Chinese closer to the heart of the motherland. All these steps have been applauded by our fellow compatriots both at home and abroad, which gives us more motivation to do better in the days ahead. Third, we must unswervingly pursue the grand vision of building a community with a shared future for mankind. This is a vision that General Secretary Xi Jinping put forward seven years ago. Seven years on, the sudden onslaught of an outbreak across the world has made it clearer than ever that all countries are in the same boat and rise and fall together. It has also made us realize the importance and urgency of expediting our efforts toward this goal. At the most trying stage of Chinas fight against the outbreak, leaders of over  countries and  international and regional organizations and more than  foreign political parties and organizations offered solidarity and support to Chinese leaders through letters, phone calls, and statements. More than  countries and international organizations sent supplies and other assistance to China. People of different nationalities rooted for Wuhan and for China in various languages. The profound friendship will always be remembered and cherished by the Chinese people. Today, in the face of a growing outbreak in the world, the Chinese people empathized and reciprocated. One after another, we organized video conferences to share our control and treatment experience without reservation. One after another, we sent teams of experts to the frontline countries. One after another, we mobilized manufacturers to produce at full speed protective gear badly needed by the world. And one after another, we shipped medical supplies to every corner of the globe. As a line of an ancient Chinese poem goes, Fear not the want of armor, for mine is also yours to wear. In this spirit, the Chinese people and the whole world have written together an epic of international humanitarianism. This is the best example of a community with a shared future for mankind. III As COVID continues to spread in the world, global efforts to fight the virus have come to a critical point. We on the diplomatic front must follow the guidance of Xi Jinping Thought on Diplomacy, and prepare ourselves, in both thinking and actions, for volatility in the external environment for a long period of time. China will work with the international community to win this global war against the disease. First, it is important for the world to make a unified response to contain the virus as soon as possible. The outbreak is a common challenge to us all. Not even a single member of the international community should be missing in our joint endeavor to overcome this challenge. China will continue to explore the possibility of setting up joint response mechanisms with other countries, step up information sharing, and carry out cooperation in such areas as research and development of medicines and vaccines, all in an effort to cut off crossborder contagion as quickly as possible and contribute to a stronger global defense against COVID. China will engage in close communication with neighboring countries to put in place regional emergency liaison mechanisms aimed at responding more quickly to public health emergencies. China will continue to do its best to assist countries in urgent need, and help Africa and other developing countries strengthen their public health systems and enhance preparedness. China stands ready to work more closely with other major countries on COVID to fulfill our shared responsibility to shield the world from wind and rain. Second, it is important to uphold multilateralism and improve global governance on public health. Since the start of the outbreak, the WHO has actively performed its duties and upheld an objective, sciencebased and unbiased position. It has been instrumental in rallying and coordinating the efforts of various countries to cope with the outbreak and seek closer international cooperation. The work of the WHO has been widely applauded by the international community. China will continue to provide unfailing support for the WHO to play its role in the global cooperation against COVID and in building a health community for mankind. China will stay in close contact with other G members to strengthen cooperation on antiepidemic assistance and convene a highlevel meeting on global public health security in due course. China will take further steps to boost health cooperation under the Belt and Road Initiative and work with its partners for a silk road of health. In the age of economic globalization, traditional and nontraditional security issues are putting mankind under one test after another. China will uphold multilateralism and work for a stronger and better global governance system centered around the UN. Third, it is important for all parties to reinforce coordination and cooperation and build international consensus on fighting COVID in solidarity. Given the ferocity of this outbreak, solidarity is the only right choice for all countries. To defeat an enemy that respects no borders, solidarity and cooperation are the most powerful weapons the international community can wield. It is imperative that all parties pull together to steer the international cooperation on COVID onto the fast track. In a crisis like this, complaining, fingerpointing or scapegoating is not the way to get countries to stay focused on their battle against the outbreak. Such a move will very likely divide the international community, erode the gains from international cooperation, and ultimately hurt the shared interests of all. China will stand alongside the overwhelming majority of countries to reject ideological bias and form the biggest possible synergy to combat the virus. We will also take this joint fight as an opportunity to promote greater care for the planet we all call home, and work toward a global village where all share the same interests and future. Fourth, it is important to better coordinate macro policies and counter the downward pressure on the world economy. The outbreak has taken its toll on every aspect of global production and demand, and ratcheted up the risk of a global recession. In response, China will work on both epidemic control and socioeconomic development, and restore normalcy to work and life at a faster pace in the midst of ongoing containment efforts. China will stay the course of scaling up its reform and opening up, and play a constructive role in stabilizing the world economy. At the global level, China will promote better coordination on macroeconomic policies, and call on all parties to cast their eyes on a postCOVID era and do whatever it takes to keep global industrial and supply chains stable and promote trade and investment liberalization and facilitation. We must work together to make sure that the world economy can see the rainbow after the storm and emerge with a more balanced and sustainable growth. There will be a day when the outbreak is over and mankind prevail. We are confident that under the strong leadership of the CPC Central Committee with Comrade Xi Jinping at its core, China will be the first to win a full victory against COVID. We are convinced that with solidarity and cooperation among countries, mankind will stand the test of this outbreak. We believe that when the outbreak is over, Chinas friendship with the world will grow stronger. Chinas cooperation with the world will become more solidly based. The notion that China shares the same future with the world will win the heart of the people. And countries will take bigger and more solid steps toward a community with a shared future for mankind!