Young Hong Kong entrepreneur helps motherland produce masks
2020/4/16 9:12
Jack Lam first from left introduces the mask production lines to local officials and guests in the mask factory funded by young entrepreneurs from Hong Kong and Macao. CHINA DAILY Young Hong Kong entrepreneur Jack Lam has been busy traveling to cities on the mainland purchasing equipment and raw materials to produce face masks, which were once in short supply in the country. After weeks of effort, Lam built a small mask factory with two production lines, cooperating with other young entrepreneurs from the Hong Kong and Macao special administrative regions in Guangzhou, Guangdong province. Each production line now produces between , and , face masks a day, Lam told China Daily. If we work overtime and have more orders, the two production lines produce from , to , masks a day. And the entire factory has a production capacity of up to , masks a day when the two production lines go into full production, he said. The two production lines, situated in a Hong Kongfunded companys workshop, employ  local workers, according to Lam. The masks we produce mainly support the companies and enterprises funded by Hong Kong and Macao entrepreneurial youths in their efforts to resume production after the epidemic, Lam said. Meanwhile, we donate some of our masks to local government departments and frontline workers. Sales of the masks have also been strong in local markets, he added. With the COVID epidemic gradually coming under control, Lam said, he is considering setting up a venture fund to help young entrepreneurs from Hong Kong and Macao expand their businesses. The negative impact of the COVID outbreak is actually very large, particularly in the catering industry, since many restaurants had to be closed in recent weeks. Therefore, many companies and enterprises that are funded by Hong Kong and Macao youths need financial support to resume production and business, and to expand markets in the wake of the outbreak, he said. According to Guangzhou city authorities, the city government has introduced a series of preferential policies to encourage and support youths from Hong Kong and Macao to innovate in technology and start businesses in this southern metropolis. The move aims to build the city into a scientific and technological center, an entrepreneurial base and an incubator for young entrepreneurs from the GuangdongHong KongMacao Greater Bay Area, according to the authorities. The citys Tianhe district, a financial center in Guangdong province, established the Guangzhou Tianhe Hong Kong and Macao Youth Association Headquarters last October to help young Hong Kong and Macao entrepreneurs become more innovative, start their own businesses and enjoy a prosperous life. Cao Xiaoqi contributed to this story.