Expert says isolation has vital role in virus prevention
2020/4/16 9:04
Zhong Nanshan answers questions from a group of  foreigners who live in Guangzhou, capital of Guangdong province, April , .  Daily Isolation and quarantine measures should be prioritized once COVID cases are detected and this will greatly assist in the battle against the contagion, said a prominent Chinese expert in respiratory diseases. Early detection of people infected with the novel coronavirus, then isolating them would be an effective way to prevent the disease from spreading, said Zhong Nanshan, who is also an academician of the Chinese Academy of Engineering. Zhong was answering questions on Wednesday from a group of  foreigners who live in Guangzhou, capital of Guangdong province. Sharing Chinas experience of prevention and control of the COVID pandemic, Zhong said medical checkups also played an important role in prevention and control of the disease. Zhong Nanshan answers questions from a group of  foreigners who live in Guangzhou, capital of Guangdong province, April , .  Daily Medical checkups and observation are part of important measures to prevent the disease from spreading at the community level, he added. Exchanging experiences in fighting the disease would be very important in global cooperation, said Zhong. In addition to providing medical supplies such as face masks and protective clothing, we should attach great importance to sharing each countrys effective measures in prevention and control of the novel coronavirus, he said. Zhong also shared Chinas experience in fighting the disease with medical experts from India in a videoconference on Wednesday afternoon. Measures should be shared globally if they are proven to be effective, he said. We live in one world, and we now have one fight against the COVID pandemic, said Zhong. The  foreigners, from Japan, Australia, Russia, Vietnam, Palestine and a number of African countries, also shared their views about tackling the disease. Zhong Nanshan, an expert on COVID, speaks to foreign nationals studying or working in Guangzhou, Guangdong province, on Wednesday. He shared Chinas experiences in fighting against COVID with them. SONG JINYUFOR CHINA DAILY Virginio Bibang Ndong, from Equatorial Guinea, said Chinas efforts in prevention and control of the COVID pandemic should be learned by other countries. I told my parents that I would not go back home in February when China reported an increased number of confirmed cases of COVID, he said. Ndong, who arrived in China in , is studying medicine at Southern Medical University in Guangzhou. I was very confident that China would tackle the problem in an efficient way, and I have now told my family members in Africa how to prevent themselves from being infected, he said. Zhong Nanshan, an expert on COVID, speaks to foreign nationals studying or working in Guangzhou, Guangdong province, on Wednesday. He shared Chinas experiences in fighting against COVID with them. SONG JINYUFOR CHINA DAILY Sharing Chinas experiences in fighting COVID would help to prevent the disease from spreading further globally, said Bindanda Mvuama Van Timothee, from the Democratic Republic of the Congo. I like living in Guangzhou, especially at a time when the local government had introduced timely and efficient measures to prevent and control the novel coronavirus pandemic, he said. Sharing Chinas experience of fighting against the COVID pandemic would help us better prevent and control the disease when we return to Africa.