China mulls booster shots to step up herd immunity
2021/8/2 7:29
A man receives nucleic acid tests at a testing site of Longxi community in Jiangning district of Nanjing, capital of East Chinas Jiangsu province, July , .  Although there isnt enough evidence now to support delivering COVID booster shots to the general public, China is studying whether it is necessary to give additional doses to vulnerable groups and highrisk workers in order to boost immunity, health experts said. Shao Yiming, a researcher at the Chinese Center for Disease Control and Prevention, said that based on initial observation, people with weak immune systems, such as the elderly and those suffering chronic illnesses, as well as workers at higher risk of contracting the virus or people planning to travel to highrisk areas, might need a booster dose six to  months after initial immunization. Whether this is necessary and when a booster shot should be rolled out are being researched, he said during a news briefing on Saturday. Shao said immunity triggered by any COVID vaccines in use appears to decline to some extent as time goes by, but immunological memory is locked in, preparing bodies to swiftly generate strong antibodies when encountering the virus. For the general population who have been vaccinated within a year, there is no need to obtain a booster shot for now, he said. Chinas mass immunization program is progressing smoothly, with over . billion doses administered as of Saturday, according to the National Health Commission. The program had covered  million people age  and above and . million youths age  to  as of Wednesday, said He Qinghua, an official at the commissions Bureau of Disease Prevention and Control. However, questions on vaccines effectiveness and the necessity of a booster shot have been raised as the Delta variant, a highly contagious strain, has caused a local outbreak that was first detected in Nanjing, Jiangsu province, on July  and has spread to at least  provinciallevel regions in the country. Mi Feng, a spokesman for the commission, said on Saturday that China had reported  confirmed domestic infections in July, roughly equivalent to the total number of local cases from February to June. The main strain in circulation is the Delta variant, which poses a greater challenge to virus prevention and control work, he said. Feng Zijian, a researcher at the China CDC, said the transmissibility of the Delta variant is estimated to be nearly double that of the original strain, and it spreads much faster and likely increases the risk of developing severe symptoms. Available findings suggest that the Delta variant might diminish protection from COVID vaccines, but current shots can still have good preventive and protective effects against the strain, he said. Shao added that breakthrough infectionspeople who contract the virus at least  days after being fully vaccinatedare relatively rare. No vaccine can provide  percent protection against viral infections. But on the whole, various COVID variants can be controlled with existing vaccines, he said, adding that studies also show that domestic COVID vaccines can effectively reduce rates of hospitalization, severe cases and deaths. Shao noted that many developed countries, despite their high vaccination coverage rates, are grappling with a resurgence of outbreaks due to a rush to relax antivirus policies, such as wearing masks and maintaining social distancing. This shows that inoculation must be used in conjunction with strict disease control measures, he said, calling on the public to continue practicing personal protective protocols. Wang Huaqing, chief expert on immunization planning at the China CDC, said that it is not recommended at the moment to mix vaccines. He also urged the public to finish full immunization with multipledose vaccines on time. Although the Delta variant is considered more transmissible and dangerous, He, from the commission, said the triedandtested virus control approach, including targeted lockdowns, rapid mass testing and isolation, is still effective at containing the virus. However, he emphasized that implementation should be faster and more rigorous, and cooperation across different government departments and localities should be stepped up.