Chinese prosecutors increase efficiency in public letter replies amid epidemic
2020/4/16 7:27
People wearing protective masks wait for checking their temperature in an Apple Store, in Shanghai, Feb , .  Recent media reports saying some foreign enterprises are withdrawing from China has raised concerns about Chinas economic development given the uncertainties triggered by the novel coronavirus pandemic. However, such concerns arise from a lack of understanding of the operation pattern of companies in a globalized era. Since Chinas accession to the World Trade Organization, foreignfunded enterprises have entered China in a big way, making China the global manufacturing hub and its economy the second largest in the world. At the same time, an everexpanding Chinese market and its continuous transformation and upgrading has also brought in more multinational enterprises. The economic relationship between China and the United States has evolved from a oneway export relationship, in which China provided inexpensive goods to the US, to a partnership of twoway dependence. First, China has become the manufacturing base for many American companies manufacturing hightech products to consumer goods, thus raising their global competitiveness. Second, the Chinese market has become the most important overseas market for American companies such as General Motors, Boeing and Apple, as well as some semiconductor and service companies. This means China has not only helped American manufacturing companies gain a global advantage but also provided them with the largest single overseas market. The profits American companies made from Chinabased operations is boosting their innovation capacity to maintain competitiveness. Therefore, there is no reason for American companies to leave China. Economic cooperation between China and the US will not be disrupted by temporary trade frictions and they should avoid a loselose outcome. After Apple, Tesla started its investment project in China at a time when the trade friction was straining ties between China and the US. The project helped raise Teslas output and enhance its competitiveness due to lower costs. It continued to expand its factory in Shanghai despite shutting down production lines outside China during the epidemic outbreak. On the contrary, after the US government banned some American enterprises from cooperating with Chinese tech giant Huawei, they have seen a decline in their sales and profits. China and the US are essentially in a kind of relationship involving both competition and cooperation, which should not be treated as a zerosum game. Given that cooperation with China is important to American enterprises development, such enterprises are not supporters but opponents of SinoUS trade frictions. So, we should welcome them to do business legally in China. What China should now do is to continuously cultivate and expand its domestic demand, raise production efficiency and create a better business environment so that foreign companies find it difficult to leave China.