UN sets Ethiopia air hub for Africa virus response
2020/4/15 20:33
After the first batch of  tons of medical supplies dispatched by the World Health Organization for Africas fight against the coronavirus pandemic arrived in Ethiopia on Monday, the UN on Tuesday established an air hub in Addis Ababa to distribute the lifesaving supplies across the African continent. The joint program, which includes the Ethiopian government, the WHO and the Africa Center for Disease Control and Prevention, was launched at the Ethiopian Cargo and Logistics Services, a division of Ethiopian Airlines, at Bole International Airport. While receiving medical supplies on Monday, Boreima Sambo, the WHO country director for Ethiopia, said the supplies to be distributed across the continent include masks, gloves, hand sanitizers and other personal protective equipment for healthcare workers. Ethiopian Airlines cargo service has been instrumental in distributing  tons of supplies donated to African countries by Jack Ma, Chinese entrepreneur and philanthropist. According to Fitsum Abadi, managing director of the Ethiopian Cargo and Logistics Services, they distributed the first consignment of  tons within six days across  African countries. Abadi believes that by efficiently distributing Mas donation through their stateoftheart cargo capacity, they demonstrated to the UN that they can host the air hub. Ahmed Ogwell, deputy director of the Africa Center for Disease Control and Prevention, said the solidarity flights are very important as part of the joint efforts to strengthen Africas response and preparedness in combating the pandemic. Speaking on Wednesday, Ogwell said his organization was exploring all possibilities for joint action against the virus. Ogwell said that in addition to the UN air hub in Ethiopia, his organization and the UN Development Program have jointly designed a program to support ongoing efforts to fight the coronavirus in Africa. According to Ogwell, the joint program aims to coordinate coronavirus response to recovery efforts, along with Africa Union member states and regional economic communities, as well as civil society organizations and faithbased organizations, to ensure coordinated cooperation and communication and to adopt a holistic approach. His organization is delighted to work with the UN Development Program to implement the joint continental strategy for the coronavirus outbreak, he said Our strategy is clear we want to capacitate the member states so they can quickly detect and mitigate the effects of the disease in Africa, and if widespread transmission occurs, prevent severe illness and death, Ogwell said. He added that the joint program will specifically focus on regional coordination and building of synergies, capacity building and knowledge sharing, risk communication strategies and sensitization campaigns, as well as socioeconomic, health, governance and political impact assessments.