Soccer group ships medical supplies to UK
2020/4/15 16:42
The Ningxia Football Association in the Ningxia Hui autonomous region sent medical supplies to Brooke House College in the United Kingdom on Saturday.?Photo by Zhou Zhixiangchinadaily.com.cn A shipment of medical supplies was sent from a soccer association in Yinchuan, Ningxia Hui autonomous region, to Brooke House College in the United Kingdom on Saturday. The goods included  surgical masks and , pairs of protective gloves. On the packed boxes was part of a poem from the Tang Dynasty  Good friends feel close even when they are thousands of miles apart. The amount of material is not large, but many Ningxia soccer players wanted to show our concern for our British friends. We want to extend a helping hand so they can overcome the pandemic as soon as possible, said Wan Yingwei, a staff member of the Ningxia Football Association. In , a delegation from Brooke House College visited Yinchuan schools and stadiums. The college exchanged views with the association on training for coaches and youth. In February, the college invited young soccer players from Ningxia to participate into a training exchange program and discuss further cooperation. Because of the novel coronavirus outbreak, the plan had to be suspended, Wan said. Aware of the severe COVID pandemic in the UK, the Ningxia Football Association decided to take action. The Ningxia Football Association in the Ningxia Hui autonomous region sent medical supplies to Brooke House College in the United Kingdom on Saturday. Photo by Zhou Zhixiangchinadaily.com.cn The Ningxia Football Association in the Ningxia Hui autonomous region sent medical supplies to Brooke House College in the United Kingdom on Saturday. Photo by Zhou Zhixiangchinadaily.com.cn The Ningxia Football Association in the Ningxia Hui autonomous region sent medical supplies to Brooke House College in the United Kingdom on Saturday. Photo by Zhou Zhixiangchinadaily.com.cn The Ningxia Football Association in the Ningxia Hui autonomous region sent medical supplies to Brooke House College in the United Kingdom on Saturday. Photo by Zhou Zhixiangchinadaily.com.cn