COVID death toll tops , in UK
2020/4/15 10:56
A woman wearing a mask in Tottenham as the spread of the coronavirus disease COVID continues, London, Britain, April , .  LONDON  The death toll of those hospitalized in Britain who tested positive for the novel coronavirus reached , as of Monday afternoon, a daily increase of , the Department of Health and Social Care said Tuesday. As of Tuesday morning, a total of , cases of COVID have been confirmed, said the department, adding that , tests have concluded, with , tests on Monday. These are tough times and there will be more to come, said Chancellor of the Exchequer Rishi Sunak during Tuesdays Downing Street daily press briefing, adding that the latest death figures are a powerful reminder of the need for people to stick to social distancing rules. We absolutely need to make sure that we keep the benefits of this going forward and we dont take a foot off the pedal, we dont become complacent, said Sunak. Sunak stressed that Britains strategy is not about choosing between peoples health and the health of the economy, calling not to take action to protect peoples health as selfdefeating. The single most important thing we can do for the health of our economy is to protect the health of our people, he said. Earlier Tuesday, the Office for Budget Responsibility OBR warned Britains economy could shrink by  percent in the second quarter, and the unemployment could rise by more than  million to  percent during that period of time. Meanwhile, the Office for National Statistics ONS has suggested the total number of virusrelated deaths in Britain is significantly higher than the figures published by the National Health Service NHS and the health department, which only count hospital deaths. According to the ONS, around one in  coronavirusrelated deaths registered up to April  in England and Wales took place outside hospitals. The latest comparable data for deaths involving COVID with a date of death up to April , show there were , deaths in England and Wales. When looking at data for England, this is  percent higher than the NHS numbers as they include all mentions of COVID on the death certificate, including suspected COVID, as well as deaths in the community, said Nick Stripe, head of health analysis and life events at the ONS. The provisional number of deaths registered in England and Wales in the week ending April  week  was ,, representing an increase of , deaths registered compared with the previous week week  and , more than the fiveyear average, according to the ONS.