Chinese firms help educate the world
2020/4/15 9:53
Soldiers carry boxes of food to deliver to the poor at the Santa Rosita neighborhood on the outskirts of Guatemala City on April  during a stayathome curfew designed to slow the spread of the new coronavirus. MOISES CASTILLOASSOCIATED PRESS From enforcing quarantines to pulling back from conflicts, priorities are shifting to deal with the emergency TEL AVIV, IsraelThe novel coronavirus pandemic has forced militaries and militias to adapt to an invisible enemy, even as traditional conflicts grind on. Armies have had to enforce social distancing rules among troops while helping with national outbreak containment and postponing maneuvers. On Thursday, Saudi Arabia declared a temporary halt to fighting in Yemen because of the pandemic, while in Libya and Afghanistan conflicts are intensifying despite the United Nations appeals for a global ceasefire. An outbreak in poor or warscarred nations would be particularly devastating. Here is a look at how the outbreak affects some militaries and conflicts Defending borders Before the pandemic, Israels military kept tabs on the Iranbacked Hezbollah militia in Lebanon, carried out occasional airstrikes against Irans military presence in Syria and retaliated for sporadic rocket fire from the Gaza Strip. Now Israeli troops are being mobilized to help police enforce quarantines, assist the elderly or provide child care for health workers. To prevent infections, the army canceled some weekend leave and isolated certain groups of soldiers. Most training exercises have been canceled or delayed, though the air force conducted a drill with US forceswith each pilot isolated in his own fighter jet. The army chief had to selfquarantine after coming in contact with a virus carrier, though he eventually tested negative. The conflicts on Israels frontiers persist. In late March, Syrian air defenses opened fire on missiles allegedly launched from Israeli warplanes. The Israeli military said border defense remains its top priority. Our enemies are still at our borders and our civilians are still within sniper or antitank missile range, said Lieutenant Colonel Jonathan Conricus, a military spokesman. The virus has spread to the Israelioccupied West Bank and to Gaza, which has been blockaded by Israel and Egypt since the militant Hamas group seized control in . The longsimmering IsraeliPalestinian conflict now exists sidebyside with efforts to contain the outbreak. Troops have carried out home demolitions in the West Bank, soldiers killed two Palestinians in clashes and a trickle of rockets has been fired from Gaza. But the virus is also opening doors to limited cooperation. Israel has helped deliver test kits and other supplies to both the West Bank and Gaza. An IsraeliPalestinian committee is coordinating the movement of Palestinian workers and security forces in the West Bank. US Army Captain Pam Sisler inspects an operating suite at a military field hospital for noncoronavirus patients in Seattle, Washington state, on April . LINDSEY WASSONREUTERS To wage war or fight virus Spurred by concern over the pandemic, the Saudi Arabialed coalition fighting the Iranbacked Houthi rebels in Yemen declared a temporary ceasefire after five years of war. The Houthis have dismissed the offer as a ploy and clashes continue, casting doubt over a future peace agreement. The United Nations had called for an end to escalating fighting so authorities can confront the coronavirus. Yemen confirmed its first case this week, while foreign backers Iran and Saudi Arabia have struggled to stem massive outbreaks. An outbreak in Yemen, where the conflict has devastated the healthcare system, could be catastrophic. The past month has brought more human suffering across the country. Ground fighting in the north caused  deaths in  days. The Houthis fired missiles at the Saudi capital, Riyadh, triggering retaliatory strikes on Yemens capital, Sanaa. A rebel attack on the city of Taiz, in western Yemen, killed at least six female prisoners and wounded two dozen women and children. Even modest hopes for peace talks in Yemen stand in contrast to Libya, where rival forces have ignored humanitarian pleas for a ceasefire, seeking to exploit the diplomatic void left by the pandemic. Easternbased forces are escalating a yearlong siege of the capital, Tripoli, which they want to wrest from the UNbacked government. Artillery shells crashed through living rooms, cars, a sea port and three hospitals over the last month, killing at least  civilians and wounding more than . Grad rockets struck one of the countrys few coronavirus treatment facilities, sending shrapnel into a doctors leg during surgery and forcing seriously ill patients to evacuate as the bombs fell. Militias allied with the Tripoli government have expanded their use of Turkish drones, at one point attacking an aircraft thought to be carrying medical supplies and protective gear. Balancing threats In South Korea, which has managed to slow the outbreak, the military is key to containment. More than  military medical staff and , troops have been deployed to help with treatment at hospitals, screening travelers, enforcing quarantine, producing face masks and helping trace the contacts of virus carriers, according to the defense ministry. The country has postponed its annual military exercises with the United States and prohibited most enlisted soldiers from leaving their bases. Experts say the cutback in training is inevitable. An outbreak among troops would be devastating for combat readiness. Waging war games For the  member states of the NATO military alliance, which is not fighting any wars, the virus poses a challenge to its routine training exercises. Last month, the US Army announced that it was cutting down the number of troops taking part in massive war games, the DefenderEurope  exercises, that have been planned across Europe over the next six months. NATO SecretaryGeneral Jens Stoltenberg said the alliance remains ready to act. Unseen disaster India has ordered its . billion people into lockdown, but tensions remain on its militarized frontier with Pakistan. In March, soldiers exchanged gunfire and mortar shells along the frontier at least two dozen times, according to the Indian army. The military has stopped recruitment and halted movement across military stations except for essential services. It canceled training exercises, like the Indian Navys nation drill, which was set to begin on March . LieutenantGeneral Vinod Bhatia, who heads Indias Defense Ministryrun think tank, the Center for Joint Warfare Studies, said that all militaries build scenarios, but there has not been a scenario around this kind of disaster. Agencies Via Xinhua