What? US ranks No  on fighting virus?
2021/8/1 19:32
A medical worker scans ID information of residents at a nucleic acid testing spot in Nanjing, capital of east Chinas Jiangsu province, July , .  By Saturday, the number of new domestic COVID infections in July had risen to , exceeding the total for the past five months, with new cases, asymptomatic ones included, reported in more than  cities of  provinciallevel administrative regions. The latest infections have been confirmed to be caused by the highly contagious Delta variant of the novel coronavirus, and that Nanjing Lukou International Airport was the origin. According to reports, there is high possibility that an outsourced cleaner at the airport was infected by an inbound carrier of the virus around July . The virus then spread via the cleaner to passengers and staff. So far, the latest wave of infections has two centers. While Nanjing accounts for  of the total  cases, the tourism city Zhangjiajie in Central Chinas Hunan province has reported quite a few of the remainder. The majority of those infected in Zhangjiajie were found to have watched an evening gala at a local theater, where , people sat side by side without wearing masks. The spread of the virus from Nanjing highlights there are some deficiencies in the pandemic prevention and control system that must be fixed. Places such as airports that experience high flows of people must remain on high alert, and airlines operating domestic and international flights must strictly separate the two passenger flows. Both airports and airlines must implement strict protection measures for all staff. Further, it is the summer vacation, when parents tend to take their children on trips. Tourism cities, especially those with scenic sites that attract a large number of visitors, must strictly control their crowd sizes and implement mandatory maskwearing and social distancing requirements. The authorities at various levels are acting to cut the transmission chain. With the help of volunteers, Nanjing has been conducting the third round of nucleic acid testing for its . million residents since Thursday, and Zhangjiajie announced the closure of all scenic spots starting from Friday. The citys authorities have arranged for  tourism groups and their , tourists to return home. Residents nationwide have also been responding to the call to postpone summer travel plans, and many travel agencies and flight companies are refunding the full price of tickets. With governments, medical staff and volunteers, and ordinary residents all making efforts to fight the latest wave of the virus, it is to be hoped that it will soon be brought under control.