Syrian army opens fire on Israeli missiles
2020/4/15 9:12
Airport staff workers move Chinas medical support for Laoss battle against COVID in Vientiane, capital of Laos, March , .  Chinas efforts in cooperating with other countries to contain COVID are highly valued, and this is particulary so in Southeast Asia, according to officials and analysts. China has won high appreciation from large parts of the international community for donating medical materials and equipment and dispatching groups of medical teams to other countries, said Sounthone Xayachack, a senior official of the Lao Peoples Revolutionary Party. She noted that China has actively engaged itself in global cooperation against the pandemic while making solid achievements in fighting the spread of the virus at home. Foreign Ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian, at a regular news conference in Beijing on Friday, said the Chinese government had begun providing suppliesincluding surgical masks, protective gear and testing reagentsto  countries and four international organizations. In addition, localities, enterprises and civil groups in China have donated medical supplies to more than  countries, regions and international organizations, and held over  video conferences with medical experts from about  countries and international organizations. With its fast spread and wide reach, the pandemic has taught humans a lesson, in that all countries have become aware that no single nation can rise to the virus challenge alone without international cooperation, said Sounthone, head of the LPRP Central Committees Commission for External Relations. Important and imperative It is both important and imperative that China has proposed the vision of building a global community of shared public health for mankind to face the common and serious threat, Sounthone told China Daily in a written interview. She said that with people under severe threat, countries can only gain total victory against the pandemic by uniting their efforts and joining hands in consensus. The LPRP, together with many others, supports the call of the Communist Party of China for major parties of the world to strengthen cooperation in countering the COVID pandemic, she said. Dong Quang Vinh, a conductor from the Vietnamese capital Hanoi, said China has adopted effective comprehensive approaches in the virus fight over the past months. It has also exercised caution in the resumption of production while helping others, he said. Vannarith Chheang, president of Cambodiabased think tank Asian Vision Institute, also said China is playing a vital role in the global battle against COVID. Sounthone said China has been united and resolute in countering the epidemic. Under its strong leadership, China has taken comprehensive and effective measures, timely treatment of patients and tracing of close contacts, in addition to curbing the risks from imported cases. Laos and its people hold high regard for Chinas firm political resolution and wise decision making, she said. Only by further enhancing close cooperation can the world beat the pandemic once and for all and reduce its impact. Laos reported its first confirmed case on March . The slow increase in infections can be attributed to the countrys effective measures in reference to Chinese experiences and the solidarity and wide support of the Laotian people, Sounthone said. Chinas experiences have offered references and information for the Laotian government to guide its people, she said. A special working group has adopted a series of measures, including setting up , quarantine stations. All travelers from highrisk nations are required to go through a day quarantine. Wang Jian contributed to the story.