India sees cooperation as showing strength of ties
2020/4/15 8:58
A doctor in a protective chamber takes a swab from a man to test for COVID at a newly installed WalkIn Sample Kiosk WISK in a governmentrun hospital in Chennai, India, April , .  The COVID pandemic presents an opportunity for India and China to send a good message about their relationship, said Indian Ambassador to China Vikram Misri. There is considerable space for India and China to cooperate in controlling the spread of this pandemic, Misri told Indian and Chinese media at a video conference on Tuesday. The immediate aspect is for us to cooperate in the procurement of the muchneeded medical equipment and products. According to the Indian health ministry, the country had reported around , cases and  deaths by Tuesday. India appreciates Chinas new quality checks on its medical exports, Misri said, and wants the process expedited to help with the evolving situation in India. It is also important that quality materials continue to be available at reasonable and stable prices, he said. When China was at the height of dealing with this outbreak we had offered and provided medical assistance, he said. Now, we are in the process of actually commercially procuring a large number of these supplies. ? A man rides his trishaw on graffiti depicting the coronavirus on Monday to raise awareness in Chennai, India.  India has placed big orders for medical supplies from China. We are in the process of or have already completed contracting for nearly  million PPEpersonal protective equipment kits, for instance, consisting of medical gowns, masks, gloves, goggles etc. In addition, an order for . million rapid testing kits is being placed. India aims to secure  million PPE sets, from domestic production and imports, and tens of thousands of ventilators, Misri said. The country has been able to reduce peoples exposure to the virus, with an infection rate at . people per day instead of ., he said. India has extended the lockdown, which was announced on March  and had been scheduled to end on Tuesday. It will continue until May . Misri said the main disease control work is being undertaken by  hospitals, where , beds have been made available for intensive care units, with , beds for isolated care wards. Our efforts to preempt the transmission continue through a massive contacttracing and surveillance operation, he said. The ramping up of testing capacity is a very important aspect of our efforts, he said, adding that testing kits are being developed. This year marks the th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between China and India. The outbreak has prevented the staging of activities to mark the event. Misri said he looks forward to seeing a resumption of normal activities between the two countries, when the circumstances allow.