Survey shows rising levels of anxiety in Britain about impact of COVID
2020/4/15 8:53
A man wearing a face mask looks at his phone on Primrose Hill in London as the spread of the COVID continues, London, Britain, April , .  The number of people in the United Kingdom expressing high levels of concern about the novel coronavirus has more than doubled according to new research. Mintel, a market research agency, found between Feb  and March  that  percent of British adults were extremely concerned about the risk of being exposed to the virus. But, between March  and March ,  percent said they were extremely concerned. The survey also found that only  percent of respondents said they were not worried at all when asked in late March, down from  percent in early March. Mintel said only  percent of men aged  and older were extremely worried about exposure to the virus in early March but  percent were by the end of the month. Older women have consistently been among the most likely to exhibit extreme concern about exposure to the virus, the survey said, with  percent of females aged  and older being worried about the virus in late March, which was up from  percent. Jack Duckett, associate director of consumer lifestyles research at Mintel, said the results came as little surprise, as the number of COVID cases and deaths surged during March in the UK. Most notable has been the rise in concern amongst older adults, and in particular, older men, a group that has previously been among the least engaged with their health and wellbeing, Duckett said. For this group, there is no escaping that they are highly vulnerable to this virus, not only due to their age but because there is a higher incidence of chronic underlying health conditions. The research also showed that more than a third of Britons were extremely concerned about the outbreaks impact on their lifestyles. But Duckett said that, despite the challenges of the lockdown and social distancing measures, people in the UK were generally very resilient. While levels of strain are, undoubtedly, heightened, people are finding evermore creative ways of keeping connected and their stress levels in check, he said, noting a surge in the popularity of digital platforms and video calls. Almost four in five respondents also reported washing their hands more often, according to the survey, and  percent said they were using hand sanitizers more frequently. Meanwhile,  percent of those surveyed reported wearing facemasks, with the proportion rising to  percent among Londoners. Overall, fewer than one in  consumers reported making no changes at all as a result of the virus.