Huawei is helping keep Britain connected during pandemic vicepresident
2020/4/15 8:41
After already experiencing a tense period during which China desperately searched for surgical masks to ward off the novel coronavirus pandemic, small and midsize factories in China now are confronted with a new challenge. The task now is opening up global markets and exporting masks to other countries that are still struggling against the pandemic. The companies must do so amid increasingly stringent regulations, or be forced to dump their masks at cutthroat prices domestically amid rising overcapacity. For many small and midsize Chinese manufacturers that resorted to producing masks just months ago, taking their products to overseas markets, especially the United States and Europe, is a herculean task. They lack a sound customer base, and have inadequate foreign trade experience and knowledge of marketaccess requirements. On top of these hurdles, they have to deal with stricter export curbs at home. Nevertheless, foreign markets are critical in the present circumstances. The coronavirus has so far claimed more than , lives and infected more than . million people worldwide, with the US and Europe as hotspots. Western nations are in dire need of such protective gear, while the situation in China has stabilized and domestic demand is falling. Focusing just on the domestic business could mean an inventory backlog. We now produce  million masks each day, and  percent are for export, Zou Dan, an executive at Jiangsu Ruo Yao Medical Equipment Co, told China Daily in late March. The company, based in Taizhou in eastern Jiangsu province, produced nursingrelated consumables before the pandemic erupted. Jiangsu Ruo Yao had won orders from a dozen European countries as of the end of March. One recent purchase came from France, which bought  million units that need to be delivered within three weeks under the contract. Market access hurdle Securing overseas orders is not an issue for many newcomers to mask manufacturing, but it takes time and energy to get to know the procedures and prepare the goods for shipment, involving cooperation with foreign trade companies, export qualifications, potential legal risks and travel restrictions. The biggest challenge comes when overseas customers place orders with us directly, as were in the dark about dealing with customs clearance, Zou said. We have to work with foreign trade companies. On one occasion, we didnt have a partner at the time, and hence, we lost an order. Zhuo Zhihua, cofounder of Shenzhen Zhong En Yuan Technology Co, echoed Zous concerns. There are a lot of qualification requirements for exporters, and the required certifications and quality standards vary from country to country. Without past experience in such a field, we have to learn the export procedures from scratch, he said. For mask exporters, the most essential part of the qualification is security certification, which is seen as the passport for entry into foreign markets. They need to secure CE French for European Conformity certification for selling masks to European Union countries. For the US market, certification from the countrys Food and Drug Administration FDA is required. Factories rely on thirdparty agencies to help them deal with the certification problems. The surge in processing demand has pushed up certification prices. According to an agency, the fee for CE certification is on the rise  from , yuan , previously to more than , yuan now. Normally, it would take months to get certification, but the process has accelerated significantly in the current situation. Both Jiangsu Ruo Yao and Shenzhen Zhong En Yuan won CE certification within two weeks and said they would receive FDA certification soon. But for smaller factories with fewer technological strengths, getting qualification isnt smooth sailing. Although the global demand for masks is much bigger than supply, and China has strong production capacity, it has not fully turned into global sales, said Chen Tao, senior analyst with research firm Analysys. Many small manufacturers have to overcome barriers setting foot in international markets, especially in the US and Europe, because theyre unable to obtain the qualifications, he said. The export process became even harder when several Chinese government departments jointly issued a ruling on the last day of March. From April , exporters of test kits, surgical masks, protective gowns, ventilators and infrared thermometers must provide a hard copy or electronic statement when they declare to customs, to prove the products have obtained Chinas registration certification for medical devices and met the quality standards of importing countries or regions. That means they now not only need to obtain foreign certifications, but also domestic certification to be a qualified exporter. A number of Chinese factories that temporarily switched business to manufacturing masks and have been focusing on export business have CE or FDA certification, but not a domestic one. Some small and mediumsized manufacturers that switched to producing masks after the epidemic broke out could be shut out of the export door. The new regulatory measure is an alarm bell for ineligible factories, said Wang Xin, executive president of the Shenzhen CrossBorder ECommerce Association. They need to get the qualification as soon as possible. Otherwise, theyll be forced out of the market. Travelcurb challenge In addition to market access hurdles, transportation poses another big challenge, as a large number of international flights have been canceled due to the shutdown of borders and cities under the lockdowns in many countries. Although there are cargo agents offering transportation services, and some courierservices companies are still running, transportation fees have surged dramatically. Travel curbs imposed by many countries have put the Chinese airfreight market, already suffering from insufficient transportation capacity, under greater pressure, warned Yang Daqing, a researcher at the China Society of Logistics. Many airlines that have seen their passenger flight business slump have converted passenger planes into cargo aircraft to meet the growing demand for medicalsupplies shipments. Despite all the difficulties in going global, Chinese mask factories are sparing no effort in the effort as the once hardtoget commodity is witnessing an increasing oversupply in the country. According to Chinese corporate information data provider Tianyancha, the number of enterprises whose businesses cover mask production shot up by , nationwide from Feb  to March . The daily production capacity of masks in China had exceeded  million units by the end of February. Small and mediumsized mask producers who arent able to enter the global market could face inventory and cash flow problems, leaving them with no choice but to dump their products domestically at drastically low prices, Chen said. For these factories, they have to think of how to turn their mask production capacity into another capacity, or export it to other countries to avoid operating risks. The government could lend a helping hand and alleviate their burden by purchasing the excess masks. Contact the writer at sallychinadailyhk.com Crowds of Hong Kong residents line up in Lam Tin to get face masks and protective gear distributed for free by the Hong Kong Federation of Trade Unions.?Calvin Ng  China Daily ?