Heroic city of Wuhan makes important contribution to global fight against COVID
2020/4/15 8:41
More stringent regulations on the export of masks, test kits and other medical supplies will help regulate the market and maintain the reputation of madeinChina products, industry insiders and experts reckon. In a joint statement on March , the Ministry of Commerce, the General Administration of Customs and National Medical Products Administration said that as of April , exporters of test kits, surgical masks, protective gowns, ventilators and infrared thermometers must provide a hard copy or an electronic statement when they make a customs declaration in order to prove their products have obtained Chinas registration certification for medical devices and met the quality standards of importing countries or regions. The move came after some medical supplies exported from China were reported to be substandard. According to recent Dutch media reports, health authorities in the Netherlands had recalled almost half of the , surgical masks already distributed to hospitals in the country. The masks were part of a shipment of . million units ordered from a Chinese manufacturer, and a large portion of them were said to be of inferior quality. Chinese Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying said on April  that based on an initial investigation by the Chinese authorities, the reported shipment concerned nonmedical masks ordered by a Dutch agent. The Chinese company had explicitly notified the Dutch side before shipment that they were exported as nonmedical masks in the customs declaration, she said. Spanish media also reported that the testing effects of test kits produced by a Shenzhen company failed to meet expectations. Although Shenzhen Bioeasy Biotechnology Co responded that the testing accuracy could be undermined due to improper operation and other reasons, concerns about the quality of export products remain. The new export rules can effectively eliminate or reduce the volume of substandard products shipped abroad, strengthen supervision over the quality of medical supplies, and maintain a good market order, said Wang Xin, executive president of the Shenzhen CrossBorder ECommerce Association. Exported products could have an impact on the reputation of Chinese goods. Any quality problem could damage our national image and even be exaggerated or distorted at this time. Also, exporters could face commercial and legal risks, he said. Stepping up regulation helps ensure the quality of Chinese goods, which will not only help us gain global recognition, but also enable our enterprises to embark on a smooth path to internationalization. Zhou Yonghong, who has been working in the foreign trade industry for more than  years, said the new regulatory measures will threaten the survival of small factories that have just turned to mask production. These players are unqualified for the mask business in China, and its hard for them to get the domestic certificate due to a lack of the required technology, he said. Its a contest and a survival of the fittest. sallychinadailyhk.com ?