Judgment on mask ban strengthens rule of law
2020/4/15 7:49
A customer pays in the book store Buchhandlung Lerchenfeld after the Austrian government loosened its lockdown restrictions during the coronavirus disease COVID outbreak in Vienna, Austria, on April , .  BRUSSELSVIENNA  As many countries in Europe believe they are seeing a flattening of the coronavirus curve or a plateau, a gradual reopening of businesses is taking place, albeit with caution. Small shops and hardware stores in Austria reopened on Tuesday as the first step towards a new normal amid the COVID pandemic, according to Chancellor Sebastian Kurz. As of Tuesday morning, shops of up to  square meters and hardware stores in the Alpine country have reopened under strict precautionary measures such as maskwearing and social distancing. We are on track, said Kurz, who believed The numbers of new infections and of hospitalisations are going in the right direction. However, masks are mandatory in retail and public transport, he emphasized. The number of confirmed cases of coronavirus infection in Austria has reached , as of Tuesday afternoon, with  deaths reported. Spain, one of the European countries hardest hit by COVID, is handing out  million free masks from Monday to Thursday this week, to commuters going back to work after a twoweek lockdown that forced all nonessential workers to stay home to combat the spread of COVID. Face masks are being handed out to commuters at train and metro stations as well as at bus terminals across Spain. Residents can pick up masks at , distribution points throughout Spain. Starting from Monday, nonessential workers such as construction staff are allowed to return to work. Meanwhile, the rest of the country remains under lockdown until April . Italy, another country devastated by the pandemic, on Tuesday took its first tentative steps towards reopening its economy five weeks after the first national lockdown entered into force. Last Friday, Italian Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte formally extended the coasttocoast quarantine from April  to May . However, the new decree did allow a few businesses to reopen starting Tuesday. Among them stores selling clothes and equipment for small children, those selling products for pets, book shops, dry cleaners and electronics stores. German aircraft engine manufacturer MTU Aero Engines announced that operations at its largest facility in Munich would gradually restart from April  onwards, and the restart of operations in its maintenance facilities in the German cities of Hannover and Berlin would start one week later on April . After a threeweek suspension of operations, around  percent of employees would initially resume their work, the company said. The state of crisis in the cities of of Debar and Centar Zupa in North Macedonia ended in the past weekend due to no new COVID cases reported for the past  days there. The area was an early hotspot for the pandemic after several citizens visited Italy and returned home with infections. Both Debar and the neighboring villages were locked down in order to prevent the spread of the virus. However, the citizens from this area will not be allowed to cross municipal borders and the curfew will remain in place under the nationwide state of emergency. Danish Prime Minister Mette Frederiksen announced on Tuesday that she is seeking for a faster pace in reopening the society amid a low level of COVID infections in the country. As daycare, kindergartens and primary schools for  grades prepare to reopen across the country on Wednesday, the government intends to gather all parties in Parliament to debate on further reopening measures. Each death is, of course, a tragedy, but the numbers show we have the epidemic under control. The curve has flattened, and it is still well within the capacity of the healthcare system, said Magnus Heunicke, Minister for Health and Senior Citizens. The hospital system is expected to open up more in Denmark, starting with the most urgent surgeries that had been postponed so as to prioritize the COVID patients.