Focus on border infections timely China Daily editorial
2020/4/14 20:13
According to the local public health authorities, in the  hours of Monday alone, Heilongjiang province saw  new confirmed COVID infections, all of which were imported ones. That was the highest singleday number in the province to date. A staff member wearing a face mask is seen at the Suifenhe Port in Northeast Chinas Heilongjiang province, April , .  During the same time span, the National Health Commission registered  newly confirmed cases on the countrys mainland, of which  were imported. One day earlier,  new cases were confirmed on the mainland. Of the  imported cases of the day,  were reported by Heilongjiang and  by the neighboring Inner Mongolia autonomous region. The front line of the countrys defense against a surge in imported cases has shifted to the northeast. Since all the new infections detected in Heilongjiang and Inner Mongolia have come into the country through the land border with Russia, additional pressure may be on its way for land ports on the ChinaRussia border. The new imported infections detected in Heilongjiang and Inner Mongolia have entered the country through two small border cities, Suifenhe in the former and Manzhouli in the latter. Tiny border towns, such as these, also happen to be the weakest links in our medical system. In Suifenhe, a countylevel city with fewer than , regular residents, more than  imported infections have been confirmed, and over , remain in quarantine. In order to facilitate the strict screening and quarantine measures that have proven instrumental in effective pandemic control, there is a pressing need to properly equip the local medical facilities and provide local medics with emergency training. Which is why at a meeting chaired by Premier Li Keqiang on Monday, Chinas novel coronavirus task force decided to deploy more health resources on the countrys borders. To mitigate the pressure on the citys inadequate resources, the central authorities have already dispatched both support personnel and materials besides temporarily closing the passenger entry channels. A makeshift hospital has been erected, and more special wards are being prepared for a possible hike in imported infections. Similar endeavors are underway in Manzhouli, a ,people trade port. But given the continuous inflow of Chinese nationals seeking refuge back home amid pessimism over the pandemic in Russia, these gateways cannot remain closed to people indefinitely. And as soon as restrictions on border crossings ease, the pressure may prove backbreaking for these cities. So while it is good that small land border towns such as Suifenhe and Manzhouli have become the focus of the countrys pandemiccontainment system, with redoubled efforts being made for their defense, there needs to be stronger coordination and cooperation with neighboring countries so they can get a grip on the spread of the virus.