UK lockdown measures set to continue for at least  weeks
2020/4/14 9:56
A woman wearing a preventive face mask has her temperature checked, as a safety measure to prevent the further spread of the coronavirus, before casting a ballot for parliamentary elections at a polling station in Seoul,?South Korea, April , .  SEOULSouth Korea is considering easing up on its social distancing controls, Prime Minister Chung Syekyun said on Monday after a stabilization in the countrys coronavirus infection rates over the past week. Only  new cases were reported on Monday, bringing the total to ,. The countrys daily number of new cases has been below  in the past five days. But Chung said any possible shift soon toward everyday life doesnt mean a return to what people were used to before the outbreak. On Monday, South Korea started to test all arrivals from the United States, as it is the source of almost half of its imported cases over the past two weeks. Elsewhere in Asia, Singapore is preparing to house hundreds of foreign workersmany from South Asiain vessels typically used for offshore and marine industry workers as it races to find alternatives to dormitories where the virus has been spreading rapidly. The city state reported  new cases on Sunday, taking its total number to ,. Israels former chief rabbi Eliahou BakshiDoron, , who was known for promoting interfaith dialogue, died on Sunday of COVID in what is the countrys highestprofile death from the pandemic. As of Sunday, Israel had reported , cases and  deaths. In Iran, all commanders of Irans Islamic Revolutionary Guards Corps will donate  percent of their monthly salaries until the outbreak in Iran ends, IRGC spokesperson Ramezan Sharif said on Sunday. The donations will go to the people who have lost their jobs due to the economic disruptions. Iran on Monday reported , new cases, taking the total number to ,. The death toll rose to ,. Deputy Health Minister Iraj Harirchi said on Monday the infection rate and the number of deaths have been on the decline in most provinces. Intensified measures Saudi Arabia on Sunday extended indefinitely a curfew imposed because of the outbreak amid a surge in infections. Its total number of infections had risen to ,, with  deaths. Jordan on Sunday also extended a monthlong lockdown that has closed schools, universities and government agencies until the end of April. The country had registered  cases and seven deaths. The Egyptian armed forces started distributing free face masks to citizens in public places to curb the spread of the virus, which has infected over , people in the country, Egyptian military spokesman Tamer alRefai said on Sunday. South Africa saw a rapid rise of  new cases on Sunday, probably due to the mass community testings that began last week, Health Minister Zweli Mkhize said. The country had , confirmed cases as of Sunday. Sudan on Sunday banned publictransport trips between cities to arrest the virus spread. Prime Minister Abdalla Hamdok also issued an emergency order under which those who break isolation rules will be punished. Penalties will also apply to those who impede medical treatment or assault health workers. Xinhua  Agencies