Pandemic defense deficiencies must be fixed China Daily editorial
2021/7/31 18:30
Photo provided to chinadaily.com.cn The InterContinental Beijing Sanlitun teamed up with designer Sheguang Hu on Thursday to create an immersive Qipao Night fashion party, and Hus haute couture Dream collection was officially released. In this collection of haute couture qipao, the audience found exquisite embroidery, tassels, traditional Chinese buttons, beads and many other classic elements. The designer chose a variety of fabrics, including baroquestyle lace, pearl brocade, synthetic leather and printing leather. His dresses are decorated with metal accessories, snake strips, sequins and gold foil paper. Photo provided to chinadaily.com.cn When I was working in the Netherlands, I once designed the last qipao for an Asian woman with terminal breast cancer. That custommade qipao was supposed to be her last dress to wear at her funeral C after she died, The inspiration for Dream collections came from this. This series of qipao is no longer confined to traditional Chinese patterns such as dragon, phoenix and auspicious cloud, but also integrates modern aesthetics, making them a fashion symbol. Photo provided to chinadaily.com.cn This is not the first time Hu has brought nostalgia onto the couture stage. Red and green cloth with vibrant floral patterns, discarded iron wire, suspended thread in shadow play, spray paint, cocoon and rubber gloves... Each is from one of his visual memories. When asked why models wear masks on the runway, Hu said, With masks on, the audience will pay more attention to the body language of the models, and the clothes will have more vitality. Photo provided to chinadaily.com.cn Ive been given a lot of labels by a lot of people, but labels dont define me. Fashion, for me, is for selfinnovation. Its a way of connecting to myself. It gives me a sense of security, a sense of who I am and how I should be, Hu said. Photo provided to chinadaily.com.cn Photo provided to chinadaily.com.cn Photo provided to chinadaily.com.cn Photo provided to chinadaily.com.cn Photo provided to chinadaily.com.cn