Seoul may ease clamps on social movements
2020/4/14 9:12
A man feeds monkeys at Pashupatinath temple in Kathmandu, Nepal, on March . Guards, staff and volunteers are making sure animals and birds on the temple grounds dont starve during the countrys lockdown, which halted temple visits and stopped the crowds that used to line up to feed the animals. NIRANJAN SHRESTHAASSOCIATED PRESS KATHMANDU, NepalWhen the novel coronavirus came to Nepal, attention turned to an unlikely group of victims Hundreds of monkeys, cows and pigeons. Normally, the animals are fed by thousands of devotees at the countrys most revered Hindu temple, Pashupatinath temple in Kathmandu. But last month, Nepals government ordered a complete lockdown to stop the spread of the coronavirus. People were forbidden from leaving their homes. Temples closed. And the animals risked starvation. Now, every morning and evening, a few guards, about a dozen staff and some volunteers come out to ensure that the animals survive. We are trying to make sure that these animals are not starving and they are taken care of, said Pradeep Dhakal, an official of the Pashupatinath Development Trust, which controls the temple and surrounding areas. Nepal has nine confirmed cases of the coronavirus and one person has recovered. The lockdown, imposed on March , banned all flights and ground transport, and closed markets, schools and offices. It is common for devotees to feed cows, which are sacred and worshipped by Hindus, and monkeys, which are believed to be descendants of the Hindu god Hanuman. Cows line the path leading to the temple and the banks of the Bagmati River, while monkeys roam freely around the forested hill next to the shrine. Dry corn is spread out on the banks of the river for pigeons while a dough is made for cows from grain. Hundreds of monkeys mostly line up to receive food from volunteers wearing masks and rubber gloves. Each meal takes about four to six sacks of food. The monkeys have not attacked the volunteers, said Nivesh Dugar, an environmental engineer. But minutes later, a large monkey snatched the plastic basket full of dough. We are just trying to help the animals survive, said Dugar. Agencies via Xinhua