All expats treated equally, says FM
2020/4/14 7:46
An African expat R learns the Chinese language at a service center for foreigners in Dengfeng Street of Guangzhou, South Chinas Guangdong province, July , .  Foreign Ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian said on Monday that the United States is being immoral and irresponsible by telling lies after a US State Department spokesperson reportedly accused the Chinese authorities of abuse and mistreatment of Africans living and working in China. We dont discriminate against our African brothers, Zhao said, adding that Guangdong province has taken a series of measures to address the concerns of African people in the region. He said he believed the issue will be properly resolved with efforts made by the Chinese and African sides, and he urged the US to focus its efforts on containing the novel coronavirus outbreak. He said any attempt to sow discord between China and African countries will not succeed. China treats all foreigners equally, objects to any kind of differential treatment targeting certain groups of people, and tolerates no discrimination, Zhao said in a statement issued Sunday night. Since the start of the outbreak, the authorities in Guangdong province have attached great importance to the medical treatment of all foreign confirmed cases, including African people, Zhao said. The Foreign Ministry will continue to communicate closely with the Guangdong authorities to respond to reasonable concerns of the provinces African residents. The Chinese people always see in the African people partners and brothers through thick and thin. ... African friends can count on getting a fair, just, cordial and friendly reception in China, Zhao said. Zhao also said that China has provided a large amount of medical supplies to the African Union and African countries to contain COVID, including test kits, face masks, protective clothing, goggles and ventilators. China will continue to support African countries to the best of its ability, he said. As China is under mounting pressure posed by imported COVID cases, Zhao said that it hopes to work with African countries, through mutual understanding, mutual support and cooperation, to stop the spread of the virus. Yang Rihua, deputy chief of the Guangdongs public security department, said at a news conference on Sunday that , foreigners live in the province. Of them, , are from Asia, , from the Americas, , from Europe, more than , from Africa and over , from Oceania, according to Yang. All foreigners in Guangdong should strictly abide by the law and cooperate actively with the authorities in their disease control efforts, he added.