Teeth bared at mask order
2021/7/31 12:00
US Rep Kat Cammack holds up a Capitol Police bulletin requiring masks be worn in interior spaces on the Capitol grounds due to coronavirus disease COVID during a photo with House Republicans who oppose mask mandates before the group marched to the Senate chamber at the US Capitol in Washington, July , .  Republican revolt at US House rule puts police on back foot over arrest plans The bitter partisan divide over COVID measures in the United States intensified on Thursday as Capitol Police backed away from plans to arrest any unmasked House of Representatives staff members or visitors after Republicans in the chamber strenuously objected. Regarding the House mask rule, there is no reason it should ever come to someone being arrested, the US Capitol Police said in a statement. Anyone who does not follow the rule will be asked to wear a mask or leave the premises. The Departments requirement for officers to wear masks is for their health and safety. The House shares the Capitol building in Washington with the Senate, which does not have a mask requirement. House Republicans, many of whom have refused to wear masks on the premises, blamed House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, a Democrat from California, with one calling the directive tyrannical. The Capitol Police chief does not report to the speaker, but to a threemember board, which is made up of the House sergeantatarms, the Senate sergeantatarms and the Capitol architect. The House mandate, which requires everyone, including those fully vaccinated, to wear a mask was ordered on Tuesday evening by the Office of the Attending Physician, and Pelosi said she would follow it, as is her prerogative as speaker. Congresswoman Kat Cammack, a Republican, on Thursday posted on Twitter a copy of the Capitol Police memo ordering the arrests. In todays edition of Pelosis abuse of power, Capitol Police have been directed to arrest staff and visitors to comply with her mask mandate for vaccinated individuals, she said. For Members, they advise not arresting but reporting Members to SAA sergeantatarms for their failure to comply. ... I will not comply, Nancy. This is not your House. This is the Peoples House. Cammack told Fox News that she got a copy of the mask memo from an unnamed Capitol Police officer. She said that police officers with whom she has spoken are very uncomfortable with the directive, which she called tyrannical. House Republican Leader Kevin McCarthy said on his website on Wednesday The same bureaucratic public health experts who completely upended our society by pushing lockdowns and yearlong school closures now want to force Americans to return to prevaccine control measures. By forcing vaccinated Americans to return to masks, the Biden administration is not only casting doubt on a safe and effective vaccine, but contradicting why vaccines exist. On Wednesday, Pelosi referred to McCarthy as such a moron for opposing the revised mask guidance. , cases a day Coronavirus cases are surging in the US due to the highly transmissible Delta variant that has become the dominant strain of the virus. The sevenday average of new cases in the US approached , on Thursday, up from , on June . Meanwhile, US President Joe Biden on Thursday announced that millions of federal workers and onsite contractors will have to show proof of vaccination against COVID or wear masks, practice social distancing and submit to regular testing under sweeping new guidelines. Government employees who dont show they have been vaccinated will be subject to weekly or twiceweekly coronavirus tests and restrictions on official travel. The administration will encourage employers across the private sector to follow this strong model, the White House said in a statement. There are . million civilians employed by the federal government, not including , US Postal Service workers and more than . million uniformed military personnel. Biden directed the Pentagon to look into how and when it can require activeduty troops to get immunized. Biden also detailed several other steps aimed at persuading more people to get inoculated, including calling for state and local governments to make  payments to every newly vaccinated citizen.