New policies make foreigner work permit applications easier
2020/4/14 7:28
Photo by Liu LunanChina Daily Many women can barely remember the last time they wore makeup since the COVID pandemic, especially since they typically put on facemasks when they leave home. PR officer Yan Lingbo says she used to spend  minutes applying powder, blush, eyeliner, mascara and lipstick before heading to the office. But the Beijinger now spends only about five minutes on the exposed parts of her face. Shanghai resident Pan Haozhen says she has simplified her makeup routine since she isnt meeting clients face to face. Now, the marketer uses just sunscreen, eyebrow powder and face powder. She expects to wear a facemask throughout  and has enough cosmetics to last until next year. Wearing a mask all day isnt comfortable, especially when it gets hotter, she says. She plans to spend more on skin care than makeup, she says. But she will restart her full cosmetics routine if facetoface business resumes to show respect  and professionalism. Reduced social contact amid the epidemic resulted in cosmetics purchasing frequency decreasing by  percent between Jan  and Feb , data from consultancy Kantar Worldpanel China show. Offline sales drop was greater. Although the outbreak is essentially under control in China, people still wear facemasks in public and are cautious about inperson contact, which has reduced consumption, says Kinsey Jin, senior account manager of the company. Since Chinese people have become more aware of hygiene and health, the habit of wearing facemasks may last after the epidemic, she says. This may mean eye makeup and skincare products will continue to flourish. Their sales in midMarch were similar to the same period last year, Jin adds. Essential tips for facemask makeup had received  million views and generated about , discussions on Sina Weibo as of early April. About . million netizens watched livestreams on the topic on Taobao on Feb . The number of articles about facemask makeup on Xiaohongshu, a Chinese fashion and lifestylesharing platform, surpassed ,. Cosmetics giant LOreal Group says its sales saw an obvious rebound in China in March. Perfect Diary told news portal Jiemian that sales of its star products stayed strong in March. Chinese online group discounter Pinduoduo says in a report in late February that eyeshadow compact ranked third among products purchased by whitecollar workers, after facemasks and hand sanitizer. Taobao says that lipstick sales grew  to  percent in late February. The demand for cosmetics is not reduced, LOreal China president and CEO Fabrice Megarbane says. On the contrary, many people have regarded beauty as a way to gain comfort and happiness during difficult times. The company has developed online courses on makeup worn with masks and on skin care. Shang Tao, a renowned cosmetologist and founder of makeup brand Wusawusa, says the ways masks cover peoples faces have the upsides of drawing attention to the eyes while reducing other flaws. He suggests using soft eye shadow, such as earth tones, rather than aggressive colors like red to avoid a sense of dissonance since there isnt lipstick to match. Demand for cosmetics remains despite the epidemic. People have been learning how to best apply makeup while wearing masks.?Photo provided to China Daily He also suggests against wearing much mascara and recommends lightcolored masks. Applying setting sprays is particularly essential to make the makeup last longer while wearing facemasks, he adds. It can create an image thats approachable, healthy and clean, and makes others feel comfortable, he says. He says wellexecuted makeup can boost selfconfidence, even with a mask. Its more of a personal spiritual issue, rather than something done for others appreciation. And it can prepare people for the unknown. What if the moment you take off the mask to take a sip of water is when you meet Mr Right? Yuan Minghui, training manager of Yuesai, a cosmetics brand under LOreal Group, agrees makeup can improve moods. Yuesai organized a makeup competition for sellers in Wuhan, the hardesthit area in the country, in February to ease their anxiety. One participant says Looking at myself in the mirror with makeup makes me feel like life has returned to normal. All of the brands brickandmortar stores have reopened on the Chinese mainland. Yuan says sharp eyebrows and black eyeliner can make eyes appear brighter and more energetic. Thinner foundation reduces skin damage. She also emphasizes skin care. Wearing facemasks can cause skin irritation, including itching and redness. The moisture of their breath dampens the mask, which rubs against their faces. And its easy to develop dry skin and acne since the skin cant breathe. She suggests skin care focused on moisturizing, treatment and nutrition. Zhang Renzheng, operations director of Crane, a Beijingbased dealer of South Korean cosmetics, says the sales of skincare products, including lotions, creams, essences and facial masks, recovered quickly in March. The companys facialmask sales increased by  percent in early March monthonmonth, as people have more spare time to spend on skin health, he adds. Chen Ke, senior partner and vicepresident of consultancy Roland Berger China, says the epidemics impact on Chinas cosmetics market is short term, and the tendency for longterm growth will remain strong because of consumption and supportive policies. And digital marketing, sales and branding are also advancing. Contact the writer at chenmeilingchinadaily.com.cn ?