Expat business owner delivers food to checkpoint workers
2020/4/14 0:00
With the Africas Centers for Disease Control and Prevention confirming , COVID cases,  deaths and , recoveries on the continent on Monday, African countries are bracing for tougher times as most countries impose more restrictions in a bid to reduce the spread of the virus. While addressing a news conference on April , Matshidiso Moeti, the World Health Organizations regional director for Africa, raised concerns over the shortage of diagnostic kits in many African countries. The shortage of diagnostic kits for this virus is a huge concern and a big challenge to African countries. Though the issue of testing is one of the acute concerns we are handling at the moment, we are trying to find whatever is available as test kits and ensuring that they are distributed in areas that they are needed, Moeti said. We would like to emphasize that as the epidemic spreads beyond African capital cities, the response also needs to spread. The capacity for testing for the virus needs to go beyond capital cities and we need to acquire test kits and engage people at the community level such as community health workers to help with the testing, Moeti added. In Kenya, where the health minister has urged the youth to use their organizational prowess to help the country in the fight against coronavirus pandemic, a number of youth have taken it upon themselves to educate people about the virus. John Kariuki, a signwriting artist in capital Nairobi, says he found it necessary to educate people about the virus after he noticed most Kenyans were not taking the virus seriously. Since I move around painting signs, I decided to print coronavirus messages on my motorcycle to remind Kenyans on what they should do. My messages include how to properly use a mask and advice on how parents can protect their children against the virus, Kariuki said. Kariuki said that since the government cannot be everywhere, he would like to see more youth taking part in sensitizing the community about the virus. Let us not wait for the government, we can come together to procure masks and hand sanitizers which we can distribute to help protect people. We are ready to partner with anyone willing to help in spreading the message and protecting people against this virus. In South Africa, where , cases have been confirmed with  deaths, the previous lockdown that was supposed to expire on April , has been extended by two weeks. While addressing the nation on state television on April , President Cyril Ramaphosa asked South Africans to make even greater sacrifices so that our country may survive this crisis. After careful consideration of the available evidence, the National Coronavirus Command Council has decided to extend the nationwide lockdown by a further two weeks beyond the initial  days. This means that most of the existing lockdown measures will remain in force until the end of April, Ramaphosa said. Meanwhile, the African Union, through Africa CDC, has strongly condemned comments made by French professors on French television suggesting the use of Africans for testing a tuberculosis vaccine in clinical trials to see if it is protective against the coronavirus. Professors JeanPaul Mira and Camille Lotch have no lessons to teach Africa on the conduct of scientifically sound clinical trials. Africans have extremely capable worldrenowned scientists who have played critical leadership roles in conducting clinical trials that have benefited the continent and beyond, John Nkengasong, Africa CDC director, said in a statement on April . As we have seen with this coronavirus pandemic, only collective international cooperation through a collaborative and respectful approach can succeed in the conduct of sound research that will benefit the whole of humanity, Nkengasong added. otiatochinadaily.com.cn ? Homeless people wait in line for food at a camp set up by disaster management authorities during the nationwide lockdown aimed at limiting the spread of COVID in Cape Town, South Africa, on Thursday. MIKE HUTCHINGSREUTERS