Customs to step up strict inspection of medical supplies for export
2020/4/13 17:19
? A worker produces protective suits in a clothing factory in Shenyang,?capital of Liaoning province, on April , .  Customs authorities are stepping up efforts to strictly inspect exported medical supplies to use against COVID, maintaining good order for exportation, a senior official said at a news conference of the Joint Prevention and Control Mechanism of the State Council on Monday. We have more qualified companies producing medical supplies for exportation during the war against coronavirus, which plays an important role in supporting the world to fight against the pandemic, said Jin Hai, director of the General Operation Department under the General Administration of Customs. Thus, its of great importance to strengthening the supervision and inspection over these medical supplies and their producers. According to Jin, Customs has approved exported medical supplies worth . billion yuan . billion so far since April . Also, Customs has detained  million unqualified products or those produced by companies without qualifications, which include . million masks, , protective suits, . million testing kits,  respirators and , infrared thermometers. Companies that didnt truthfully declare exported medical supplies will be investigated and exposed to the public on the authorities platforms, according to Jin. He said that the administration released a notice on Friday, saying that the administration will implement the obligations to check on medical supplies, such as surgical masks and protective suits, directly used by people to prevent coronavirus.? We will order the companies to terminate exportation and confiscate the goods or charge a penalty if they export unqualified products or adulterate substandard goods for good ones, he said. For those who violate the law, we will investigate their criminal liability. He stressed that the administration will continue to facilitate export of medical supplies by credible companies and will increase the exposure of law breakers to maintain good export order.