New COVID cases in US decline while variants spread draws concern
2021/7/30 20:44
Airport staff members unload the first batch of Chinese Sinovac vaccine raw materials from a plane at the Cairo International Airport in Cairo, Egypt, May , .  Africa is set to receive . million COVID vaccine doses from Chinas Sinopharm and Sinovac through the COVAX facility, with tens of millions more to come, the World Health Organization said on Thursday. These doses have been allocated to countries this week and will be delivered as soon as countries are ready to receive them, said Matshidiso Moeti, the World Health Organization regional director for Africa, at a news conference on Thursday. The vaccines are part of the  million doses the two companies will supply to COVAX for immediate supply to lowincome countries, in a deal signed on July  with options for additional doses. According to the Sinopharm advance purchase agreement, Gavi, the vaccine alliance, committed to purchase  million doses on behalf of COVAX, to be made available from July through October. The deal also gave Gavi the option to purchase a further  million doses from October to December, and  million more doses in the first half of next year. As per the Sinovac advance purchase agreement, Gavi committed to purchase  million doses on behalf of COVAX, to be made available from July through September. In addition, Gavi has the option to purchase a further  million doses from October to December, and  million more doses in the first half of next year. The potential doses of both Sinopharm and Sinovac vaccines could be available to both selffinancing participants of the facility, as well as those supported by the Gavi COVAX advance market commitment. Already several African countries have administered Sinopharm and Sinovac vaccines acquired through bilateral agreements. According to Bridge, a Beijing based independent consultancy that tracks Chinas impact on global health, China has delivered . million doses to  African countries so far, of which  million are donations. China has also signed agreements with Egypt, Morocco and Algeria to locally manufacture Sinovac and Sinopharm vaccines. Already, Egypt has manufactured  million doses. Moeti said COVAX is confident it will meet its goal to deliver at least  million doses to Africa by end of this year, based on the expectation of more vaccine candidates and manufacturing sites at the tail end of the review process for approval by WHO for emergency use listing. The African Unions Africa Vaccine Acquisition Trust is also expected to supply  million doses to the continent by December. Moeti said COVAX and the World Bank are set to further boost COVID vaccine supply for developing countries through a new costsharing arrangement. The arrangement allows lowincome countries to purchase doses beyond the fully donorsubsidized doses they are already receiving from COVAX. With the expected influx of vaccines, it is crucial countries scale up all aspects of vaccine rollout to reach as many people as possible, Moeti said. This entails mobilizing adequate resources, including finances for vaccination activities, logistics and personnel, as well as addressing any concerns by communities  including those fueled by misinformation  to increase vaccine confidence and demand. Moeti said Africa needs up to  million doses to fully vaccinate  percent of its population by the end of this year, considering a twodose schedule. So far, Africa has received almost  million COVID vaccine doses and  million people, or . percent of the continents population, are fully vaccinated. John Nkengasong, the director of the Africa Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, said Africa may need more doses that initially estimated to achieve the  percent vaccination target by the end of next year. This is due to the highly transmissible Delta variant and the current COVID infections in young people. Nkengasong urged Africans, including those fully vaccinated, to continue observing public health measures of social distancing, wearing face masks and washing hands. While vaccines are coming, it will take time to reach the critical level where we can relax and feel more comfortable. There is a lot we dont know about this virus, Nkengasong said. Today we are taking about Delta variant, we dont know what other variants will emerge tomorrow, so we just need to continue implementing public health measures to control the spread of the virus, relieve health systems and vaccinate at speed and scale. Mutahi Kagwe, Kenyas cabinet secretary for health, urged Kenyans on Thursday to wear face masks in public places, warning cases of the Delta variant, first identified in India, have been reported in fully vaccinated people.