Children at play as Wuhan returns to normal
2020/4/13 10:00
Volunteers of Southridge Church hand out bags of essential items, including toilet paper and masks, after Easter services were held at West Wind Capitol DriveIn Theater, while the spread of the COVID continues, in San Jose, California, US, April , .  LOS ANGELESThe novel coronavirus outbreak has proved a sobering experience for vintners across California as they try to navigate the pandemic by organizing virtual wine tastings and slashing prices to remain afloat. We had to close down our tasting room and normally, we have many visitors to the winery at this time of the year, lamented Valerie Von Burg, coowner of The Wine Foundry. The small winery which produces , cases of wine a year is located in the famed Napa Valley, north of San Francisco, one of the first regions in the United States to impose a lockdown to slow the spread of the deadly virus. Although wineries are considered essential businesses and as such are still allowed to operate, with tourism dead in the region, so are sales. Vintners say that with wine tasting rooms and restaurants shuttered, they expect to lose at least  percent of their business this year. Its hard. Were still calling the grocery stores and we tell them we can ship the wine... but even though theyre definitely seeing increases in wine sales, theyre not able to take anything new now, said Amy Madsen, of the Byington winery. Creative ways Like most of their fellow , vintners across the state, Byington Wines and The Wine Foundry are struggling to come up with creative ways to bring in business, offering deep discounts for customers online and waiving shipping costs. But they are well aware that this may not be enough to compensate for their projected losses. Every single winery is experiencing the same thing, said Von Burg. It definitely is a turndown in business for us but we are not planning to lay off any employees. And so, we are trying to get very creative in how we respond to the current situation. She said once the shelterinplace order was issued in early March by the governor of California, forcing businesses to shut down and people to stay at home, her team went into crisis mode to come up with ideas to limit losses. One obvious solution, she said, was to organize virtual wine tastings. Other wineries, including Byington Wines, are doing the same. I worked in high tech before ... and we used to do these webinars where you would attract your customers or prospective customers, said Madsen. So it seemed pretty straightforward and easy enough for us to do. At The Wine Foundry, the first such wine tasting session took place recently, with the winerys oenologist, Stuart Ake, providing virtual guidance to the  people taking part in the free event. The initial trial, while successful on certain levels, highlighted opportunities for improvements in terms of delivering content and interaction with group members, Ake said. He said that contrary to inperson classes, he found it difficult during the webinar to read body language or facial expressions through a small computer screen. I cringed when I found myself slipping toward something akin to a wine lecture, said Ake, adding that he planned to up his game for the next sessionand might even maintain such events post coronavirus. Agencies