Coach Li adamant hes on board with naturalization
2020/4/13 9:30
Xie Lihui conducts medical inspections of an inbound traveler.  Daily Xie Lihui, a customs officer at Beijing Capital International Airport, planned to return to her hometown in Fujian province on Jan  for Spring Festival. However, the novel coronavirus outbreak disrupted the yearolds travel plans. Watching news reports about the epidemic, Xie became concerned, so she obtained a refund on her train ticket, even though she was eager to see her family after a threeyear absence. Her job involves conducting medical inspections of inbound travelers. It is highrisk work, so she wears protective clothing, a surgical mask and gloves as she identifies people with symptoms and ensures they are tested. If she meets people who are free from symptoms, but have a history of contact with infected people or have traveled to outbreak hot spots, she shows them how to monitor their temperature and general health in accordance with guidelines. To relieve their anxiety, I prefer to have a relaxed chat while I inspect them, Xie said. Her days are spent in a room measuring just  square meters and she wears protective gear for most of her hour shift. It is my duty to hold back the epidemic, she said. As a customs officer with a medical education, I know what my responsibilities are. My task is to guarantee border safety, and Im proud of being a gatekeeper for the country. In January, one passengers temperature was confirmed as above  C after he had been tested twice. Although the man said he felt fine and didnt have a sore throat, Xie wasnt happy. She was hesitant about sending the man for further tests, but then she heard him cough softly. Obviously, he had suppressed the cough or he had been struggling not to cough, she said. The man was transferred to the hospital and was confirmed as having the coronavirus. It was first case detected by a customs officer in China. Xies inspections are now even stricter I dont want to miss any travelers who have the virus. As the number of imported cases has been rising recently, health and quarantine checks have been strengthened. This is not the time to relax. Instead, the epidemic has prompted me to work harder, Xie said.