COVID drug study canceled, other continues
2020/4/13 9:24
Many countries benefit from Chinese expertise and medical supplies Chinese ambassador to Russia Zhang Hanhui poses with a Chinese medical team in Moscow on Saturday. REN QI  CHINA DAILY A special mission with medical experts from China has arrived in Moscow at the invitation of the Russian government. The member group, includes epidemiologists from the Chinese Center for Disease Control and Prevention and from hospitals and medical institutes in Heilongjiang province, arrived on Saturday. The group held a video conference on Sunday with Chinese students, representatives of Chinese companies in Moscow, teachers from Confucius Institutes in local universities, and a Chinese businessman who had close contact with a confirmed COVID patient. The experts will visit hospitals in Moscow, including the main coronavirus hospital, Kommunarka, and some unfinished hospitals in the city, said Hao Huilong, the expertteam leader. Hao, who is also vicechairman of Heilongjiang Provincial Committee of the Chinese Peoples Political Consultative Conference, said the experts hope their visit will help improve the situation with COVID in Russia. Russias tally of confirmed COVID cases surpassed , on Sunday, , more than on Saturday. There were reported to be , recoveries and  deaths. Meanwhile, Ten Chinese experts began their first working day in NurSultan, Kazakhstan, on Friday, sharing expertise with their Kazakh colleague on how to prevent COVID spreading. The groups scheduled day visited started at the National Public Health Center of Kazakhstan, which collects information on COVID in the country. After hearing about measures being taken to combat the disease in Kazakhstan, the experts held a conference with Kazakh doctors across the country, and Chinese doctors hailed Kazakh efforts. During our stay, it became clear that work to contain the coronavirus in NurSultan, where a quarantine is being observed, is being well done, said Lu Xiaobo, an infectious diseases doctor. Everybody is wearing a face mask. Later there was an online meeting with the Kazakh Health Minister, Yelzhan Birtanov. Restrictions imposed since midMarch had resulted in a slower increase of cases in NurSultan and Almaty, Birtanov said. However, infections in other regions had risen quickly, prompting the government to extend a state of emergency until the end of this month. The Chinese experts visit is the result of a timely decision by the leaders of the two countries, Birtanov said. Help from wide range Chinese individuals and organizations worldwide continue to contribute help in fighting the pandemic. Over the past few days the Bank of China USA has donated hundreds of thousands of surgical masks and gloves to health care workers, frontline responders and other people in essential services in New York. The donation of , surgical masks and , surgical gloves in the initial phase is near completion, the aim being to alleviate the shortage of personal protective equipment, said Catherine Feng, senior vicepresident of the Bank of Chinas New York branch. A shipment of  tons of medical supplies related to CVID arrived in Mexico from China late on Friday, Mexican authorities said. Mexicos Foreign Minister, Marcelo Ebrard, said an Aeromexico Boeing  aircraft had carried the shipment, including . million face masks and , surgical masks. The equipment will be distributed over the coming weekend, Ebrard said. It was the second flight carrying medical supplies from China to Mexico. Shipments of medical supplies from China are expected to arrive between two and four times a week, for a total of  shipments, the Mexican government said. Six ventilators of different models and , medical masks donated by China arrived in Bosnia and Herzegovina on Friday, the Chinese embassy in Sarajevo said. Chinese local governments, civil society and businesses are also preparing material aid for Bosnia and Herzegovina and are looking at ways of getting the goods to their destination, the embassy said. Pan Mengqi in Beijing and agencies contributed to this story. renqichinadaily.com.cn ? Chinese ambassador to Russia Zhang Hanhui poses with a Chinese medical team in Moscow on Saturday. REN QICHINA DAILY ? ?