Political polarization will hamper US capability to combat COVID
2020/4/13 9:18
Chief Flight Attendant Lyu Han pours a drink for a passenger during an Air China flight. TONG JINGFOR CHINA DAILY Cabin crew leader ensures health, safety Late last month, Lyu Han, a chief flight attendant with Air China and a director of the companys cabin service department, worked on the last return flight from Beijing to New York. The flight took place just days before the airline suspended services to the Big Apple, one of the places hardest hit by the novel coronavirus outbreak in the United States. On March , the Civil Aviation Administration of China ordered domestic airlines to cut their international routes to one per country and make just one flight a week. In response, Air China decided to maintain its BeijingLos Angeles route. Before Lyu boarded the plane for New York, she had a minute video conference with  other cabin crew members in which she shared epidemic prevention and control techniques for the flight. Fear was the last thing on my mind. All I could think about at the time was packing my bag, said the yearold, who in February made herself available for any flight assignment. Four hours before takeoff, her father drove her to the airport, urging her to take care. The airline prepared headtotoe protective gear for every crew member, including masks, gowns and gloves, to shield them from infection. At  pm on March , the seat Boeing  left Beijing Capital International Airport with just three passengers on board. That was the fewest number of passengers I have come across in my  years of flying, Lyu said. Before the pandemic, Air China had the largest number of flights on the ChinaUS route, with three packed flights between Beijing and New York every day. After arriving in New York, Lyu and her colleagues went straight to the companys base in Long Beach, Nassau county, where she went to bed without eating. She woke at  am and ate her first and last meal before returning to Beijing. All the crew members arrived at John F. Kennedy International Airport three hours before the scheduled departure to help each other put on layers of protective gear and prepare preventive measures. Lyu found her job more challenging when wearing the heavy protection. We took the passengers temperatures three times and helped them fill in the health declaration forms so we could report to Tianjin Airport in a timely manner if there was a problem, she said. Under CAAC orders, all international Beijingbound flights must first land in one of  designated cities, including Shanghai and Tianjin, where all passengers disembark and are tested for the coronavirus. Those cleared are then allowed to board the aircraft again for the flight to the capital. To avoid having to use the washroom, Lyu didnt eat anything during the hour flight to Tianjin. After a further three hours of health and quarantine inspections, she made it back to Beijing. When she took off her protective gear, her clothes were soaked. When I stepped on the scales I thought they were broken as Id lost . kilograms in three days, she said. But it was worth it to bring our compatriots home safe and sound. Lyu and her colleagues are about to complete their day postflight quarantine. She has kept a close eye on the health of the passengers on the flight, and said she is delighted that there have been no confirmed cases of coronavirus infection among them.