Customs official proud of her key role
2020/4/13 7:44
Workers take down the scaffolding from Baochu Pagoda, a landmark in Hangzhou, Zhejiang province, as renovation ends, on March .Photo by Xu YanProvided to China Daily HANGZHOUWhile the cherry blossoms beside the Yellow Crane Tower in Wuhan in Central Chinas Hubei province mark the much anticipated arrival of spring after a long winter, another iconic Chinese edifice was also removing its mask to breathe in the spring air. As the lockdown of Wuhan came to an end on Wednesday, Baochu Pagoda, a landmark on the northern shore of the West Lake in Hangzhou in East Chinas Zhejiang province, was freed from its own cage after four months of intensive restoration work. Listed as a national cultural relic in , Baochu Pagoda sits on the top of Baoshi Mountain, which means precious stone in Chinese. In , the top of the pagodas spire was found to be leaning and in need of repair. It was put into restoration in October. Photo provided to China Daily According to Tian Qiang, an engineer from the pagodas administration office, the slant might have been caused by weathering and the external force of kite strings. Knowing that the pagoda was sick, experts in the field of cultural relic restoration came to its aid. To restore the spire without causing any damage to the pagoda, it took around  days to build a meter high scaffold around it. The Chinese Academy of Cultural Heritage and other institutions offered their suggestions on the process of removing the spire, as well as providing data support for the repair and restoration of the leaning section via xray inspection and D digital scanning. Ancient scripture was also found on the top of the spire. Although the damage to the spire is kind of critical, it still reflects the delicacy of ancient Chinese bronze casting techniques. The ancient Chinese could even carve on a thin copper sheet, says Ma Jinyu, an expert with the Chinese Academy of Cultural Heritage. Photo provided to China Daily After months of work, the wellrestored pagoda, with its delicate spire, stood out from the green forest. The removal of the scaffold marks the completion of maintenance work of Baochu Pagoda, despite being affected by the epidemic outbreak, says Xu Lili, from the pagodas administration office. Now, the scaffolding has been removed we will clean the closed area and get down to the work of afforestation and environmental restoration. As of April, visitors will be able to visit the healed Baochu Pagoda again, Xu says. The pagoda was first built more than , years ago. It was changed into a sevenstory pagoda when it was rebuilt during the Northern Song Dynasty .