Beijing offers help to tackle health crisis
2020/4/13 7:27
A foreigner receives a nucleic acid test at a temporary inspection point in Shanghai on March , . Photo by Gao Erqiangchinadaily.com.cn Immigrants must comply with Chinas quarantine measures, legal requirements The National Immigration Administration has called on foreigners in China to cooperate with quarantine measures as legally required while warning that those who refuse to do so will bear legal responsibilities. The administration made the statement on its website over the weekend, saying foreigners in China should promptly register their accommodations and comply with the identification inspection by public security departments. The statement came after several recent incidents involving foreigners refusing to wear masks or cooperate with Chinas epidemic control measures sparked public outcry. Foreigners in China should cooperate with local authorities, it said, and permit monitoring, quarantine and other coronavirus preventive measures as needed. Foreigners over age  should show their passports to public security bureaus and accept inspection of their IDs. They should also register accommodations within  hours of arrival or change of address and accept being placed under medical observation if asked. If they fail to declare their health condition or refuse body temperature checks, epidemiological investigation, collection of samples, isolation, onsite diagnosis and hospital referral, they will be held accountable under the law and face a warning, fine, detention or possible criminal liability. If foreigners violate the law and regulations, public security departments may invalidate, cancel or confiscate their visas and related documents, or be repatriatedordered to leave Chinaor deportedtaken into custody and placed on an airplane. Repatriated foreigners may not reenter China for one to five years, and deported foreigners for at least  years, the administration said. On March , a photo of an outbreak notification letter from a residential community in Beijing was circulated online. According to the letter, a Tanzanian man did not comply with the regulation on quarantine at a designated facility after returning to China, but instead returned home on March . He refused to wear a face mask, ignored the warnings of community workers and the public security department and went out several times during the isolation period. Beijing police said at a news conference on April  that they consequently ordered the man to leave the country by a certain date. On March , a video circulated widely on Chinese social media showing a foreign man who refused to wear mask in a public area and cursed at and attacked an epidemic prevention worker in Xian, Shaanxi province. Later that day, the local police said the man had disrupted public order and he was ordered to leave China. Since the outbreak of COVID, the Chinese government has attached great importance to the safety and health of all people in China, including foreigners, the administration said. Foreigners in China must abide by Chinese laws and may not endanger Chinas national security, harm public interest or disrupt social and public order, it said.