Cities on alert as cases from Russia rise
2020/4/13 7:05
Travelers wearing masks push luggage carts at an airport in Harbin, Northeast Chinas Heilongjiang province, which borders Russia on April , .  China has strengthened epidemic control in its border regions and expanded coronavirus infection testing in key areas to contain the spread of the novel coronavirus from Russia, which has become Chinas secondlargest source country of imported cases. Measures such as the closure of border crossings with Russia to travelers and a lockdown of communities in key areas will continue to be enforced, along with the arrival of more medical support sent from across China, the establishment of a temporary hospital and the guarantee of more coronavirus infection testing. On Sunday, China reported a record daily high of  imported cases of COVID, of which  were from Russia and reported in Shanghai and Heilongjiang province. According to the National Health Commission, as of Sunday, the country has reported  imported cases from Russia, in comparison with  from the United Kingdom, the largest source country of imported cases, and  from the United States. The closure of all border crossings with Russia to travelers, especially the highway port of entry in Suifenhe, Heilongjiang, has been enforced since Tuesday. A lockdown of the city, which has reported  confirmed cases and  asymptomatic cases from Russia since March , has also been enforced since Wednesday. On Sunday, Suifenhe reported another  new imported cases of COVID from Russia, all Chinese citizens returning via the highway port of entry in the city after flying from Moscow to Vladivostok. The other  imported cases from Russia on Sunday were reported in Shanghai, all landing at Pudong airport on the same flight on Saturday. According to the Shanghai Public Health Administration,  people who had close contact with the  confirmed cases are still under medical observation in the city. On Saturday, the country registered a record daily high of imported cases. This indicates an increasing risk of imported cases, putting pressure on cities of entry, Mi Feng, a spokesman for the National Health Commission, said at a news conference in Beijing on Sunday. We should be prepared to tackle the risk of imported cases for a relatively long period. On Sunday, the Chinese embassy in Moscow issued a notice on its WeChat account reiterating that all Chinese citizens should abide by Russias epidemic prevention requirements and avoid long journeys. According to Yu Kaijiang, director of the First Affiliated Hospital of Harbin Medical University and head of the provincial medical team dispatched to Suifenhe, many inbound travelers entering China via Suifenhe were exhausted after the long journey, which could have worsened their condition, and it would have been better if they stayed and got treatment locally. Yu said at a news conference on Thursday that all patients would be sent to designated hospitals in Suifenhe and Mudanjiang, based on their conditions. A temporary hospital in Suifenhe, which is in a converted office building and has more than  beds, also became operational on Saturday. It will admit asymptomatic patients if the citys hospitals do not have the capacity to treat them, Yu said. Tian Xuefei in Harbin contributed to this story. Volunteers transport furniture for a temporary hospital in Suifenhe, Heilongjiang province, on Saturday. The facility has  beds for COVID patients.  News Service