Latest on the novel coronavirus outbreak
2020/4/13 0:00
With the epidemic being subdued in China, Beijings foreignfunded companies are getting back to work. As of March , more than  percent of foreignfunded companies in the capital had resumed operations. The resumption rate of key businesses, each with a contractual foreign investment surpassing . million yuan . million reached . percent, according to data released by the Beijing Commerce Bureau. To ensure smooth work resumption, foreignfunded companies were required to implement epidemic prevention measures, which include setting up temperature checkpoints at the entrance to workplaces, avoiding group activities, and ventilating and disinfecting offices regularly. Employees should wear masks in workspaces and stagger their meal hours. Beijing authorities have also stepped up efforts to solve foreignfunded businesses problems caused by the novel coronavirus outbreak such as a shortage of antiepidemic supplies and blocked goods transportation, said officials at the commercial bureau. Among the beneficiaries is Beijingbased ABB LV Installation Materials, a subsidiary of Swiss industrial conglomerate ABB Group. Nearly two months ago, the company called back most of its employees to resume work, but it lacked antiepidemic necessities. Yang Wenguang, the companys general manager, said its staff received  face masks and  liters of disinfectant from the Beijing EconomicTechnological Development Area, a move helpful in their production restoration. The governments supply relieved our anxiety and stress, Yang said. Without these epidemic prevention materials, we cannot go back to work in such a short time. Due to the countrywide suspension of businesses amid the outbreak, the enterprise then faced the difficulty that their suppliers in Tianjin had not returned to operation yet. The deficiency in necessary components severely disrupted ABBs normal production. After seeking help from the local government, Yang received a positive reply within a day. Just a week later, ABBs four major suppliers resumed production. Municipal authorities and departments have jointly established a BeijingTianjinHebei coordinated mechanism for this outbreak, said Liang Sheng, director of the Administrative Committee of the Beijing EconomicTechnological Development Area. If enterprises have related problems, the mechanism will mobilize all resources available to provide help, Liang added. Other foreignfunded companies in Beijing, such as Beijing Benz Automotive, Bayer and Schneider, strived to get back to work with the help of local governments. All of our factories have returned to production and the industrial chain including some links in Hubei is gradually restoring, said Sun Hui, vicepresident of Beijing Benz Automotive. Zhao Yongzhan, senior vicepresident of ABB China, said We have our confidence boosted in the China market. We believe the longterm upward trend of Chinas economy will not be changed. zhanglinwanchinadaily.com.cn ? Workers assemble vehicles on a production line at a MercedesBenz plant in Beijing in late February. CHEN ZHONGHAOXINHUA ? ?