Foreignfunded firms get back to work in capital
2020/4/12 7:26
Members of Chinese medical team to assist Russias ongoing efforts in the fight against COVID arrive at Moscow, Russia, April , . The member team, which departed from Northeast Chinas Heilongjiang province, also brought medical supplies including surgical masks, N masks and medical protective clothing.  MOSCOW  A Chinese medical team arrived in Moscow on Saturday to assist Russias ongoing efforts in the fight against COVID. The member team, which departed from Northeast Chinas Heilongjiang province, also brought medical supplies including surgical masks, N masks and medical protective clothing. The team includes experts specializing in laboratory testing, prevention and control of infectious diseases, respiratory diseases, intensive care and traditional Chinese medicine from the Chinese Center for Disease Control and Prevention, the Heilongjiang Provincial Center for Disease Control and Prevention, and four hospitals in the province. The experts will share experience with the Russian side and offer training for medics on the prevention, control, diagnosis and treatment of COVID. Russia tallied , new cases of COVID in the last  hours, bringing the total number of infections to , across the country as of Saturday. Chinese medical experts pose for a photo before boarding a plane at an airport in Harbin, Northeast Chinas Heilongjiang province, April , . A team of  Chinese medical experts departed from Harbin, capital of northeast Chinas Heilongjiang Province, for Russia Saturday morning to help with its fight against the COVID.  A plane carrying Chinese medical experts is seen at the airport in Harbin, Northeast Chinas Heilongjiang province, April , .?A team of  Chinese medical experts departed from Harbin, capital of northeast Chinas Heilongjiang Province, for Russia Saturday morning to help with its fight against the COVID.  Chinese medical experts board a plane at an airport in Harbin, Northeast Chinas Heilongjiang province, April , . A team of  Chinese medical experts departed from Harbin, capital of northeast Chinas Heilongjiang Province, for Russia Saturday morning to help with its fight against the COVID.  ?