Spain sees slight rise in deaths, fewer new cases
2020/4/12 7:25
Customers wearing protective masks practice social distancing while waiting in line to enter a supermarket, during the coronavirus disease outbreak, in Barcelona, Spain, on April , .  BRUSSELS  Lots of European countries on Saturday urged the public to stick to restriction measures during the Easter holiday as British Prime Minister Boris Johnson continued his coronavirus recovery in hospital. Consecutive drops Spain and France, which are among the hardesthit European countries, embraced some signs of hope on Saturday in their fight against the coronavirus. The number of deaths in a hour period from COVID fell for the third consecutive day in Spain, according to data collected by the countrys Ministry of Health, Consumer Affairs and Social Welfare by  hours on Friday and made public on Saturday. The total number of people who have succumbed to the viruscaused disease in Spain rose by  to ,, fewer than the  new deaths in the previous hour period and the  confirmed on Thursday. It was the fewest daily number of COVID deaths since March . However, the data should be treated with caution due to the fact that Thursday and Friday were public holidays, which could have led to delay in reporting data. Spains tally of infections stood at , by Saturday. In neighboring France, , patients were hospitalized in the last  hours, bringing the countrys total hospitalized COVID patients to ,, including , in intensive care units ICUs. The number of patients in ICUs was down by  on a daily basis, a thirdday consecutive decline. It is another very slight decrease in the need of intensive care place, which will relieve our caregivers, especially in intensive care, said Director General of Health Jerome Salomon. Across the English Channel, British Prime Minister Boris Johnson is making very good progress as he continues his coronavirus recovery in hospital, Downing Street said Saturday. Johnson was moved to a general ward on Thursday evening after spending three days in intensive care. He was taken to the hospital on Sunday,  days after testing positive for the virus. The death toll of those hospitalized in Britain who tested positive for the novel coronavirus has reached , as of Friday afternoon. French rescue team wearing protective suits carry a patient on a stretcher from Mulhouse hospital before being loaded into a helicopter on March , .  Remaining vigilant Despite good news from Downing Street, Britains coronavirus lockdown, like many European nations, faces its most serious test this weekend as it marks the Easter bank holiday. Wary of any excess of optimism, French Director General of Health Salomon stressed hospital pressure remains strong. A very high epidemic plateau seems to be emerging. We absolutely must continue to remain vigilant, he said. The time is not for deconfinement...but perhaps even more for the strict respect of confinement, barrier gestures and social distancing. Cypriot experts also strongly warned against a premature relaxation of the lockdown measures. Leondios Kostrikis, a University of Cyprus professor of virology, who advises the Health Ministry, said We are at a critical phase and we do not have a margin to make a mistake... Our advice is still the same, stay at home. Marios Loizou, scientific director at the Nicosia Directorate of the Cyprus State Health Services Organization, also came out in support of the World Health Organization, warning that a premature relaxation of lockdown measures could lead to a deadly resurgence. In Italy where the coronavirus pandemic has claimed , lives, Extraordinary Commissioner for the Coronavirus Emergency Domenico Arcuri warned about underestimating risks of the pandemic. This dramatic emergency will finally be behind us only after an effective vaccine is discovered, Arcuri stressed. Without it, there is only one antidote left our behavior, which must all work in the direction of preventing and containing contagion. The Italian Interior Ministry issued a stern notice on the eve of Easter festivities, which for Italians would especially coincide with openair trips and family lunches in normal times. Police controls have been strengthened across the territory, and especially in the perspective of the weekend over Easter holidays Sunday and Monday, the ministry said in a statement on Saturday. In Poland, Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki also urged all Poles to stay at home during the Easter holidays, as the countrys confirmed COVID cases surpassed , on Saturday. People applaud from the balcony of their house in support of healthcare workers, in front of the Dos de Maig Hospital, during the coronavirus disease outbreak, in Barcelona, Spain, on April , .  Call for unity Also on Saturday, German President FrankWalter Steinmeier called for solidarity within Europe, saying that Germany cannot emerge from the crisis strong and healthy if our neighbors are not strong and healthy. In a rare televised speech, Steinmeier said the international solidarity should bring about a global alliance to search for a COVID vaccine. And that the poorest countries in the world, which are the most vulnerable, should have equal access to any such treatment. According to the Robert Koch Institute, almost , people in Germany have tested positive for the coronavirus, and more than , have died as of Friday midnight. Eurogroup finance ministers agreed Thursday night on a financial package worth half a trillion euros to combat the fallouts from coronavirus, but without the socalled Eurobonds. French Finance and Economy Minister Bruno Le Maire said on Friday that the European Unions EU package of financial measures is a major step towards more European solidarity as it supports the blocs most affected members and helps prepare the postpandemic recovery. Its an excellent agreement because it shows the unity of European countries during this period of crisis. Its excellent because it allows the immediate release of  billion euros  billion to finance all the European economies, notably the most severely impacted ones, Le Maire told Europe  radio.