Suifenhe port of entry to remain closed
2020/4/12 7:23
People are seen wearing protective face masks in Greenwich Park as the spread of the coronavirus disease COVID continues, London, Britain, April , .  LONDON  Britain said on Sunday it was pledging  million pounds  million to the World Health Organisation and charities to help slow the spread of the coronavirus in vulnerable countries and so help prevent a second wave of infections. More than . million people are reported to have been infected by the novel coronavirus globally and deaths have topped , according to a Reuters tally. British aid minister?said assisting the poorest nations now would help prevent the virus returning to the United Kingdom. Britain has reported almost , deaths from the coronavirus so far, the fifth highest national number globally. While our brilliant doctors and nurses fight coronavirus at home, were deploying British expertise and funding around the world to prevent a second deadly wave reaching the UK, Trevelyan said in a statement. Coronavirus does not respect country borders so our ability to protect the British public will only be effective if we strengthen the healthcare systems of vulnerable developing countries too. The British government said  million pounds would go to United Nations agencies, with  million for the WHO. Another  million pounds would go to the Red Cross to help wartorn and hard to reach areas, and  million pounds going to other organisations and charities. A delivery man wearing a protective face mask rides his motorbike with a boy, amid fear of coronavirus disease COVID, in Sanaa, Yemen April , .  The cash would help areas with weak health systems such as warravaged Yemen, which reported its first case on Friday, and Bangladesh, which is hosting , Rohingya refugees in crowded camps, it said. Britains support for the WHO contrasts with the view of US President Donald Trump who has criticised its handling of the COVID pandemic with suggestions his administration might reevaluate US funding The United Kingdoms generous contribution is a strong statement that this is a global threat that demands a global response, Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, WHOs Director General said. We are all in this together, which means protecting health around the world will help to protect the health of people in the UK.?  Reuters