, US death toll overtakes Italys as Midwest braces
2020/4/12 7:00
Dr. Laureen Hill, Chief Operating Officer of New YorkPresbyterianColumbia University Irving Medical Center at Northern Manhattan Field Hospital on April ,  in New York City. New York City remains the epicenter of the coronavirus pandemic in the United States.  CHICAGO  The US death toll from the coronavirus eclipsed Italys for the highest in the world Saturday, surpassing ,, as Chicago and other cities across the Midwest braced for a potential surge in victims and moved to snuff out smoldering hot spots of contagion before they erupt. The total number of deaths due to COVID in the United States topped , Saturday afternoon, according to data compiled by the Center for Systems Science and Engineering CSSE at Johns Hopkins University. A total of , people have died of the disease among , confirmed cases in the country as of  pm local time  GMT, the CSSE said. New York state has recorded the most deaths in the country, ,, which is followed by New Jersey and Michigan with , and ,, respectively. A total of , patients in the country have recovered, according to the CSSE. With the New York area still deep in crisis, fear mounted over the spread of the scourge into the nations heartland. Tammi Woodall, who says her son in law is an inmate at the Monroe Correctional Complex where inmates worried about of the coronavirus disease COVID caused a disturbance Wednesday, protests at the Washington state capitol with daughter Alyx Lohman as efforts continue to slow the spread of the coronavirus disease COVID in Olympia, Washington, US April , .  Twentyfour residents of an Indiana nursing home hit by COVID have died, while a nursing home in Iowa saw  deaths. Chicagos Cook County has set up a temporary morgue that can take more than , bodies. And Chicago Mayor Lori Lightfoot has been going around telling groups of people to break it up. In Europe, countries used roadblocks, drones, helicopters, mounted patrols and the threat of fines to keep people from traveling over Easter weekend. And with infections and deaths slowing in Italy, Spain and other places on the Continent, governments took tentative steps toward loosening the weekslong shutdowns. Glorious weather across Europe posed an extra test of peoples discipline. Dont do silly things, said Domenico Arcuri, Italys special commissioner for the virus emergency. Dont go out, continue to behave responsibly as you have done until today, use your head and your sense of responsibility. The outbreaks center of gravity has long since shifted from China to Europe and the United State s, which now has by far the largest number of confirmed cases  over a halfmillion  and a death toll higher than Italys count of nearly ,, according to the tally kept by Johns Hopkins University. The death rate  that is, the number of dead relative to the population  is still far higher in Italy than in US, which has more than five times as many people.? NEW YORK, UNITED STATES  NEW YORK, NY  APRIL  Ongoing construction of New YorkPresbyterians Northern Manhattan Field Hospital at Columbia Universitys Baker Athletic Complex on April ,  in New York City. New York City remains the epicenter of the coronavirus pandemic in the United States.  About half the deaths in the US are in the New York metropolitan area, where hospitalizations are nevertheless slowing and other indicators suggest lockdowns and social distancing are flattening the curve of infections and staving off the doomsday scenarios of just a week or two ago. New York state on Saturday reported  more deaths, for a total over ,. Gov. Andrew Cuomo said the daily number of deaths is stabilizing but stabilizing at a horrific rate. What do we do now? We stay the course, said Cuomo, who like other leaders has warned that relaxing restrictions too soon could enable the virus to come back with a vengeance. With authorities warning that the crisis in New York is far from over, Mayor Bill de Blasio announced that the citys . millionstudent school system will remain closed for the rest of the academic year. But Cuomo said the decision is up to him, and no such determination has been made. In the Midwest, pockets of contagion have alarmed state and city leaders and led to stricter enforcement. Photo taken on April ,  shows a drivethru COVID testing site in the Brooklyn borough of New York, the United States.  Nearly  inmates at the Cook County Jail have tested positive for the virus, and two have died. In Wisconsin, health officials expect to see an increase in coronavirus cases after thousands of people went to the polls during Wisconsins presidential primary Tuesday. Michigans governor extended her states stayathome order with new provisions People with multiple homes may no longer travel between them. And in Kansas, the state Supreme Court heard arguments in a dispute Saturday between Democratic Gov. Laura Kelly and Republican lawmakers who overturned her executive order banning religious services and funerals with more than  people. Elsewhere around the world, Italian authorities set up roadblocks around Milan to discourage people from going on Easter weekend trips. British police kept a close watch on gatherings in parks and at the seaside on one of the hottest days of the year. And France deployed some , police, including officers on horseback who patrolled beaches and parks. Its useless to pack your bags for a vacation, Paris police tweeted. Turin Archbishop Cesare Nosiglia touches the glass case containing the Shroud, the linen some Christians believe is Jesus burial cloth, in a virtual prayer due to the spread of the coronavirus disease COVID, in Turin, Italy April , , in this still image taken from video.  With religious leaders around the globe urging people to observe Easter safely at home, the archbishop of Turin, Italy, allowed a video streaming display of the Shroud of Turin, believed by the faithful to be the burial cloth of Jesus, so that they can pray in front of it during the epidemic. Pope Francis celebrated an Easter vigil Mass in an empty St. Peters Basilica, where the footsteps of the pontiff and his small entourage on the marble floor could be heard clearly as they walked in slow procession toward the altar. Francis likened coronavirus fears to anxiety felt by Jesus followers after his crucifixion. For them, as for us, it was the darkest hour, he said, encouraging people to sow seeds of hope, with small gestures of care. Meanwhile, Austria aims to reopen small shops on Tuesday. Spain, with more than , dead, plans to allow workers in some nonessential industries to return to factories and construction sites Monday. Spanish authorities said they will distribute  million face masks at major train and subway stations. We think that with these measures we will prevent a jump in infections, Health Minister Salvador Illa said. Italy continued to include all nonessential manufacturing in an extension of its national lockdown until May . But Premier Giuseppe Conte held out hope that some industry could reopen earlier if conditions permit. Arcuri said that the exit from the lockdown will include increased virus testing, the deployment of a voluntary contacttracing app and mandatory blood tests as Italy seeks to set up a system of immunity passports. India extended its lockdown of the nation of . billion people by two more weeks. But Iran, the site of the worst outbreak in the Middle East, reopened government offices and businesses outside Tehran. In Indonesia, inmates set fire to a prison on Sulawesi island during a riot, apparently angry over restrictions imposed to contain the coronavirus. There were no reports of riotrelated deaths. Britain on Saturday reported  more deaths from the coronavirus, down from the peak of  recorded a day earlier. The countrys overall death toll neared ,. At the same time, data suggest that the number of hospital admissions in Britain is leveling off. FILE PHOTO Britains Prime Minister Boris Johnson leaves Downing Street, as the spread of coronavirus disease COVID continues. London, Britain, March , .  Prime Minister Boris Johnson, the first major world leader confirmed to have COVID, continued to recover at a London hospital, where he was able to take short walks, according to his office. Worldwide, confirmed infections rose above . million, with over , deaths, according to Johns Hopkins. More than , people have recovered. For most people, the coronavirus?causes mild or moderate symptoms, such as fever and cough. But for others, especially older people and those with health problems, it can cause severe symptoms like pneumonia.?  Xinhua and AP