Vaccinated people can still spread the coronavirus, US CDC says
2021/7/30 7:20
Medical workers take swab samples from residents at a testing site in Zhangjiajie, Hunan province, July , . Photo by Shao Yingfor chinadaily.com.cn Authorities in Zhangjiajie, Hunan province, have ordered the closure of places where people gather in large numbers to curb the spread of COVID, after a new locally transmitted case was reported on Thursday. The shutdowns apply to shopping centers, cinemas, theaters, KTVs and dance halls. The venues should cease business activities, disinfect their premises and organize all their employees to undergo nucleic acid testing, according to the citys headquarters for COVID prevention and control. Late on Thursday, Shang Shenglong, vicemayor of Zhangjiajie, announced all scenic spots in the city will be shut from Friday. He urged all visitors to the city to take a nucleic acid test for the virus and not to leave until they had the results. Zhangjiajie is home to the Wulingyuan Scenic and Historic Interest Area, a UNESCO World Heritage Site and popular tourist spot, which health authorities suspect is the source of a major COVID cluster. Three asymptomatic carriers were reported on Monday, and one confirmed case on Tuesday, in Dalian, Liaoning province. All four had been at the Charm Xiangxi Theater in the Wulingyuan scenic area on July , watching a show. The three asymptomatic carriers flew to Zhangjiajie via Nanjing, Jiangsu province, on July . They stayed at Lukou International Airport for around two hours for flight transfer. Zhangjiajie health authorities said on Wednesday that all audience members who watched the performance from  pm to  pm are at high risk of coronavirus infection and should report to their residential community or local disease control and prevention centers for immediate testing. A medical worker takes a swab sample from a child for COVID test at a testing site in Zhangjiajie, Hunan province, July , . Photo by Shao Yingfor chinadaily.com.cn On Wednesday night, the city began nucleic acid testing of all residents of Wulingyuan district, urban area of Yongding district and towns in Cili and Sangzhi counties. As of  pm on Thursday, samples from , people had been collected, and one of the samples tested positive. At least  people from outside Zhangjiajiefour in Liaoning province, five in Sichuan province, two in Chongqing, two in Beijing, two in Hunan and four in Jiangsu provincehave tested positive for COVID. All had traveled to Zhangjiajie or have had close contact with people who have returned from the city. An employee of the Charm Xiangxi Theater told local media that there were about , people in the audience for the July  show. The audience members were not widely separated and were required to wear masks when entering the theater. However, the theater could not guarantee they wore the masks, the employee said. Sources from Wulingyuan districts disease control and prevention center told news portal The Paper that they have a list of all the people who attended the July  performance and are contacting each one to investigate. The Charm Xiangxi Theater, which can accommodate an audience of around ,, has been closed for a week starting on Wednesday. People who bought tickets for the week ahead can get refunds. Local media Rednet.cn reported that during the summer vacation, the Charm Xiangxi show is usually performed four times a day, with a daily attendance of more than , people. The total number of tourists who have watched the show so far this year is ,. Following the COVID outbreak in Nanjing, Zhangjiajie administered coronavirus tests to more than , performers, hotel staff and restaurant workers. Zhu Youfang in Changsha contributed to this story.