Spain reports fall in new coronavirus cases and deaths
2020/4/10 19:25
? A man wearing a protective face mask and gloves walks past the empty landmark Alcala Gate, amid the coronavirus disease COVID outbreak in Madrid, Spain, April , .  MADRID  The daily numbers of new coronavirus cases and related deaths in Spain fell on a daytoday basis for the second consecutive day, according to the data collected by the Spanish Ministry for Health, Consumer Affairs and Social Welfare by  hours on Thursday and made public on Friday. The number of new COVID deaths recorded in Spain rose by  to ,, less than the  deaths in the previous hour span and the  deaths reported on Wednesday. It is the lowest daily death toll from coronavirus since March . The total number of infection cases rose by , to ,, a smaller increase than the , new cases reported on Thursday, while the three percent rise in cases is also down from the . percent rise reported on Thursday and the . percent increase from Wednesday. A total of , patients have required hospital treatment, with , in intensive care, which is  more than Thursday. With the number of patients who have recovered from COVID growing by , from , to ,, the pressure on Spains health system is slowly easing. We are continuing the tendency in which the numbers decline, said Dr. Maria Jose Sierra, from the Center for the Coordination for Health Emergencies at the Spanish health ministry, at a daily press conference of the Technical Committee for the coronavirus emergency. In the same press conference, Chief of the Defense Staff General Miguel Angel Villarroya said that the Spanish military had disinfected a total of , residencies for elderly people while helping to disinfect and set up , emergency hospital beds. He added that , troops were currently working to help control the coronavirus pandemic. Madrid and the Catalan region continue to be the two worstaffected parts of Spain, with Madrid suffering , deaths from , confirmed cases, while Catalonia has recorded , deaths from , confirmed cases. The two regions accounted for . percent of all of the coronavirus cases in Spain and . percent of the total number of deaths in the country.