Solidarity and experiencesharing are first steps to build global public health community Peruvian party chief
2020/4/10 16:27
Secretary General of the Peruvian Communist Party Luis Villanueva Carbajal. Photo provided to chinadaily.com.cn The worlds current engagement with the coronavirus pandemic can project a comprehensive global strategy for public health, according to Secretary General of the Peruvian Communist Party Luis Villanueva Carbajal. And echoing calls of Chinese President Xi Jinping, he said international unity and collaboration are of primary importance against the COVID pandemic in this time of hardship. We agree with Secretary General Xi that international solidarity is the main instrument to defeat COVID worldwide, he said in a written interview. Likewise, Villanueva said, the current experiences of the fight against COVID should serve as the basis to establish the foundations of a more comprehensive global strategy for public health. Villanueva also backed up Chinas initiative for a global community of shared public health for mankind. The first steps in collaboration to build this global public health community must be solidarity and the exchange of experiences, the release of drug patents and scientific information, he said. Peruvian President Martin Vizcarra announced the countrys first confirmed case of COVID on March . The young patient of  years old had returned from a visit to Spain, France, and the Czech Republic. Vizcarra activated security protocols then and declared a national emergency in mid March. Yet the COVID situation in the country has turned grave in recent weeks, infecting , people and claiming  lives by April , according to data from the World Health Organization. In the past days the number of confirmed cases has jumped, with  new cases reported on April ,  cases on April , and  on April . Like other developing nations, equipment and expertise are in dire need in this South American country. Peru needs not only more equipment for rapid tests, molecular tests and respirators, but also teams of specialized doctors who transmit the successful experiences of the fight against COVID in the city of Wuhan, Villanueva said. A Chinese tourist from Hong Kong was among the perished due to a heart attack at Cuzco on March  after getting infected with the pandemic. Afterwards,  Hong Kong residents returned to Hong Kong on April  by a chartered flight arranged by the Chinese embassy in Peru and the government of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region. The embassy staff also helped distribute face masks among Chinese students in Peru. The masks have been provided by local Chineselinked chambers of commerce.