First flight from Wuhan arrives in Guiyang since lockdown
2020/4/10 16:23
As the novel coronavirus COVID lockdown has been lifted in Wuhan, the city hardest hit by the epidemic in China, the first flight from the city carrying  passengers arrived at Guiyang Longdongbao International Airport on April . Operated by Shandong Airlines, the flight used the last three rows of the plane as an emergency quarantine area, as well as fully used the aisles and seats to make sure that every passenger maintained social distance with each other. The flight crew members measured passengers body temperature and provided food in full protection. After their arrival, passengers were transported by ferry buses to the baggage claim area, where they were measured for their body temperature and scanned their health QR code for the first time. They were then measured for their body temperature again and registered personal information with the local COVID epidemic prevention and control team. After their information was checked and nucleic acid samples were taken, the passengers were then transported to designated hotels. All the passengers and baggage were disinfected before entering the hotels. All the passengers stayed at the hotels and waited for their nucleic acid test results after ID checking, health code scanning, and body temperature measuring. According to Xiao Weigang, head of the COVID epidemic prevention and control team at the airport, the airport asks that all passengers report their place of residence to the government. Passengers with negative nucleic acid testing results will be allowed to leave and be quarantined at home under the instruction of the local government. Guizhou Shuanglong Airport Economic Development Zone will strengthen the COVID epidemic prevention and control measures to lower the risk of the virus spreading by checking every passengers ID, registering information, measuring body temperature, and requiring that they wear face masks. The first flight SC operated by Shandong Airlines from Wuhan arrives in Guiyang on April . .cn Staff members at Guiyang Longdongbao International Airport measure passengers body temperature. .cn Passengers register their personal information at designated hotels and wait for their nucleic acid test results. .cn