COVID patients sent to nursing homes
2020/4/10 11:17
A medic from Empress EMS loads a suspected COVID patient from the Regency Extended Care Center into an ambulance on April ,  in Yonkers, New York.? New York states nursing homes have begun accepting patients who have been released from hospitals after they tested positive for the coronavirus, under orders from the state health department, despite the longterm care facilities having been the settings of more than , deaths. The directive, issued to nursing homes by the New York State Department of Health at the end of March, has sparked concern among family members and medical professionals because the elderly are often the most vulnerable to catching COVID and have low rates of recovery, according to research. Terrence Liverpools yearold aunt died Sunday of COVID at Elm York Assisted Living, a privately owned facility in the East Elmhurst section of Queens, local news channel NY reported. Her roommate was sick, like, for a little bit, and they took her out of the room and then brought her back into the room but never told my aunt that she had the coronavirus, Liverpool said. In New York state, at least , people live in  statelicensed nursing homes. The coronavirus has spread rapidly through many of the homes, as many residents are frail with preexisting health conditions. Figures from the health department show that there have been approximately , confirmed coronavirus cases at the  New York state nursing homes and , deaths. At least  percent of residents who contract the virus die. The Society for PostAcute and LongTerm Care Medicine AMDA, which represents doctors who work in nursing homes, said in a recent resolution that admitting patients with suspected or documented Covid infection represents a clear and present danger to all of the residents of a nursing home. On Monday, the AMDA issued guidelines for nursing home staff aimed at stemming the spread of COVID. They include washing hands frequently, wearing a face mask and not coming to work if sick. However, many staffers, much like nurses and doctors at hospitals, have complained that they do not have enough personal protective equipment to do their job safely. Despite that, the New York State Department of Healths directive said No resident shall be denied readmission or admission to a nursing home solely based on a confirmed or suspected diagnosis of COVID. The document also states that there is an urgent need to expand hospital capacity in New York state to be able to meet the demand for patients with Covid requiring acute care. Devastating outbreaks of the virus have occurred in nursing homes in New York City, Long Island and Westchester County. New York State Health Commissioner Dr Howard Zucker said he would not release the names of which nursing homes have residents who have tested positive for the coronavirus. But there have been several welldocumented cases. A publicly run nursing home, the A. Holly Patterson Extended Care Facility in Uniondale, Long Island, which has  beds, had a large COVID outbreak. At least  residents tested positive and  died, according to Dr Anthony Boutin of the Nassau University Medical Center, which operates the facility. In Suffolk County, nine residents died from COVID at an upscale nursing home called Peconic Landing in Greenpoint. New York State Department of Health spokeswoman Jill Montag said Ensuring New Yorks most vulnerable nursing home population is protected is a priority in addressing the current COVID outbreak. She added that several measures have been put in place to ensure that nursing homes remain safe and clean for residents. Homes have stopped communal dining and are not allowing visits by family members or friends. Staff members are also checked daily to ensure that they do not have a fever. In a letter dated March , New York Citys heath department warned that nursing homes should prepare for even more dramatic increases in COVID cases in the coming days and weeks. Nursing home residents account for  percent of New York states total death toll of ,, according to Newsday. In Texas, California, Florida, Louisiana, Vermont and several other states, nursing homes have been ravaged by the coronavirus, claiming hundreds of lives.