South Korean coronavirus patients vote as parliamentary election kicks off
2020/4/10 9:48
South Korean President Moon Jaein wearing a mask and a plastic gloves to prevent contracting the coronavirus disease COVID, arrives to cast his absentee ballot at a polling station for parliamentary election in Seoul, South Korea, April , .  SEOUL  Early voting in South Koreas parliamentary election kicked off on Friday, with coronavirus patients casting ballots at designated stations and candidates adopting new ways of campaigning to limit the risk of contagion. The National Election Commission NEC set up eight polling stations to be used by more than , coronavirus patients receiving treatment as well as  medical staff at treatment centres in hardhit areas, including the capital Seoul and Daegu city. The election itself is on April , but officials are hoping that people will take advantage of early voting options to reduce the number of voters crowding polling locations on that day. There are , stations for voters to cast their ballots during two days of early voting starting on Friday. Polling stations were disinfected on Thursday ahead of opening, and all voters are required to wear a mask, use sanitisers and wear gloves. Officials conducted temperature checks at the entrance and anyone showing a temperature higher than . C .F was directed to special booths. South Korean President Moon Jaein cast his ballot on Friday at a polling station near the presidential office Blue House. The government is still debating plans to allow for voting by the roughly , people who have not tested positive but are in selfquarantine. Those in selfquarantine should also be ensured their right to vote. The concern is how to minimise the risk of further infection during the voting process, Vice Health Minister Kim Ganglip told a briefing earlier. Experts said the government is looking to allow the quarantined people to vote after the polls close at  pm on April . The Korea Centers for Disease Control and Prevention KCDC reported  new coronavirus cases on Friday, bringing the national tally to ,. A total of , people have recovered from the virus, while , are still receiving treatment. The national death toll rose by four to . Reuters