EU keen to extend travel ban as infections climb
2020/4/10 9:05
? A man wearing a protective mask on an empty Rialto Bridge on Sunday with an unprecedented lockdown across of all Italy imposed to slow the outbreak of coronavirus, in Venice, Italy, March , .  The European Union on Wednesday proposed prolonging travel restrictions at its external borders to contain the novel coronavirus pandemic, while urging member states to lift export bans on medicines to avoid causing shortages in the bloc. In a statement, the European Commission urged Schengen member states and Schengen associated states to prolong the temporary restriction on nonessential travel to the EU until May , as the measures applied to fight the spread of the virus require more than  days to be effective. The ongoing temporary day restriction was introduced in midMarch. Europe reported , cases and , deaths as of Wednesday, according to the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control. Meanwhile, European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen on Wednesday urged EU member states to lift export bans on medicines. Half of the EU states have designated long lists of drugs that cannot be exported during the coronavirus emergency. The lists include medication used to treat COVID patients such as muscle relaxants and painkillers. In the United Kingdom, Prime Minister Boris Johnson remains in a stable and improving condition in intensive care, Culture Secretary Oliver Dowden said on Thursday. Heaviest loss The country suffered its heaviest hour loss of life yet in the outbreak with  new deaths in hospitals on Wednesday, taking the total toll to ,, according to the National Health Service. On Wednesday, the NHS launched a mental health hotline to support its . million staff. The phone line will be open from  am to  pm every day. In Italy, the authorities reported , infections and , deaths as of Wednesday, the countrys Civil Protection Department said. Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte said on Wednesday that Italy must stick with its rigid lockdown, rejecting calls from businesses to reopen factories. In France, the presidential palace said on Wednesday the national lockdown would be extended and go beyond April . France reported  additional deaths in hospitals on Wednesday, taking the toll in sanitary establishments to ,, directorgeneral of health Jerome Salomon said. The total toll stood at , on Wednesday but it was likely incomplete, as health authorities were unable to update deaths in care establishments for the elderly due to technical problems, he said. In Russia, Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said Russian President Vladimir Putin would be tested for the novel coronavirus as often as necessary. Putin, who met regional officials on Wednesday, said Russia has the means to solve problems caused by the pandemic, but it would not be possible to completely avoid losses, although they could be minimized. Also, he said Russia would give full support to the economic sectors affected by the crisis, the labor market, and the health care system, Russian state news agency Tass reported. The number of infections in Russia rose by ,, reaching , on Thursday, and the death toll stood at , according to the Russian anticoronavirus crisis center. Angus McNeice in London, Ren Qi in Moscow, Xinhua and agencies contributed to this story.