Chinese living abroad receive shipments of protective equipment
2020/4/10 0:00
Despite the difficulty in logistics and transportation during the COVID pandemic, the first shipment of protective equipment such as masks and gloves from Shanxi was received by Chinese expatriates in Japan on March . The Shanxi Chamber of Commerce in Japan, which is responsible for distributing the supplies, sent a letter to the Shanxi Federation of Returning Overseas Chinese to express their gratitude. The supplies were donated by businesses and individuals in Shanxi. The Shanxi Federation of Returning Overseas Chinese and the Shanxi Red Cross Society have been responsible for delivering them to the overseas Chinese in more than  countries and regions including Japan, Italy, the United Kingdom, Germany and the United States. The first batch of supplies left Shanxi on March . Due to the difficulty in transportation, the first recipient in Japan obtained the supplies  days later. In the following days, the two organizations in Shanxi received confirmation letters from countries including Sweden, Malaysia and the UK. Xue Pengguo, an official at the Shanxi Federation of Returning Overseas Chinese, said he has been busy contacting overseas organizations since early February. At the beginning, we received a lot of supplies from overseas Chinese, including businesspeople, students and overseas residents, to help fight against the COVID epidemic in China, Xue said. The overseas Chinese made a great contribution to Chinas battle against the epidemic. But now they are having a difficult time overseas and its time for us to pay them back, said the official. Xue said the most difficult part of the deliveries is the pressure on transportation and customs clearance. We have foreseen all the difficulties, so we planned for the donations and delivery at an earlier stage, the official said. According to Xue, the supplies have reached all targeted recipients safe and sound in about  days after they left customs in Shanghai. We didnt expect the pandemic to develop so fast worldwide, so we are paying close attention to the situation and we will make all efforts to help our folks overseas survive the hardship, Xue said. Those who are also relieved are the parents of overseas Chinese students knowing that their children received assistance from Shanxi and Chinas other foreign missions and organizations. My daughter is studying in Sweden and the situation of the country worried me a lot. Now Im relieved when she told me that she had received supplies from Shanxi, said a Shanxi resident surnamed Yang. According to Pang Le, another official at the Shanxi Federation of Returning Overseas Chinese, there are a total of , expats from Shanxi living overseas. Li Yali contributed to this story. ? ? ?