Farmers collection of ethnic Daur items a rich harvest
2020/4/9 11:32
A ventilator component is displayed during the outbreak of the coronavirus disease COVID in Carlsbad, California, US, April , .  A batch of ventilators bound for Barbados as a philanthropic gift were diverted by the United States, according to the Caribbean island nations top health official. He said an investigation is underway. Barbados Minister of Health and Wellness Lt Col Jeffrey Bostic said at a news conference Sunday that a batch of  ventilators donated to the Barbados government were barred from export. They were seized in the United States. Paid for, but seized, so we are trying to see exactly what is going to transpire there, Bostic said. But I remind you that ventilators are one of the most indemand items in the world today, and Barbados is merely wrestling with the other  countries and territories around the world seeking to secure as many of these pieces of equipment as possible, he added. Bostic had earlier indicated that the  ventilators were part of a donation pledged by Barbadosborn pop star Rihanna. He later corrected himself to say that the diverted ventilators were not from Rihanna but from a separate unnamed donor. He added that five ventilators that were donated by Rihanna would soon reach the country. The health minister did not specify where in the US the appropriation took place. According to Barbados Today, similar actions made news as recently as Friday in New York, where Governor Andrew Cuomo vowed to seize unused ventilators from private entities through an executive order in the hardhit city. The Barbadian authorities response is still unclear, Barbados Today wrote. But Bostic said Sunday that the  ventilators currently on the island appear to be more than enough to handle the countrys  coronavirus patients, only three of whom were in need of ventilators at the time. Barbados has a population around ,. As of Wednesday, it had  confirmed coronavirus cases and three confirmed deaths. As the number of cases in the Caribbean and Latin America continue to escalate, many countries are facing shortages of everything from test kits and ventilators to medical gear for healthcare workers. Haiti recently requested from China  million worth of medical supplies for COVID treatment. Haiti, with a population of  million, currently has  confirmed cases. According to Haitian Prime Minister Joseph Jouthe, this first request includes some . million gloves, , sterilized gowns,  biochemistry automatic analyzers,  ventilators and , hospital beds. Cuban officials also recently complained about the US preventing aid from getting to them, citing the US sixdecade embargo, according to The Miami Herald. Alibaba founder Jack Ma recently announced that his foundation was shipping  million masks, , rapid test kit and  ventilators to  countries in the region, including Cuba, Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Ecuador, Dominican Republic and Peru. But Cubas shipment never made it, according to Cubas ambassador to China, Carlos M. Pereira. Pereira said on his blog that Mas foundation tried to send Cuba , face masks and  COVID diagnostic kits along with other aid including ventilators and gloves, but the airline would not transport them, citing the US embargo, according to The Associated Press. Cuba currently has  positive cases and nine deaths, according to data from Johns Hopkins University.