Spike in UK toll heightens supply fears
2020/4/9 10:06
A woman is seen wearing a protective face mask in Tottenham Court Road, as the spread of the coronavirus disease COVID continues, London, April , .  Rising deaths coincide with medics calls for gear, but Italy trend down Britons have been jolted by the biggest rise in deaths in a single day due to the novel coronavirus, as doctors cried out for more protective gear on Tuesday and Prime Minister Boris Johnson spent another night in intensive care for persistent COVID symptoms. Deaths in the country reached , on Tuesday, with  fatalities added from the previous daythe largest such rise in a day. The virus has infected more than ,, health authorities said. Johnson on Tuesday spent a second night in intensive care and was in a stable condition after receiving oxygen support for COVID complications while his foreign minister directs the countrys battle against the outbreak. Johnson, , who tested positive for the coronavirus nearly two weeks ago, was admitted to hospital on Sunday evening as he had a persistent high temperature and cough but his condition deteriorated on Monday and he was rushed into an intensive care unit. His designated deputy, Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab, said Johnson would soon be back at the helm as the world faces one of the gravest public health crises in a century. The prime minister is in a stable condition, hes comfortable and in good spirits, Edward Argar, a junior health minister, said on Wednesday. He has in the past had some oxygen but hes not on ventilation. London Mayor Sadiq Khan said on Wednesday that the United Kingdom is nowhere near lifting its lockdown measures as the peak is still more than a week away. UK doctors continue to voice serious concerns about a lack of personal protective equipment, with some calling the current provision useless, the British Medical Association has warned. In a BMA survey of almost , health workers, more than twothirds of doctors percentsaid they did not feel protected. The virus is raging across Europe, which has reported , infections and , deaths as of Wednesday, according to the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control. Italy, the most affected country in Europe, registered , confirmed cases as of Tuesday, including , deaths. Civil Protection Department Chief Angelo Borrelli stressed on Tuesday that the decrease in the trend of new infections is being confirmed. He also confirmed that the pressure on Italian hospitals was lessening, and especially for intensive care units, where we have now  fewer patients compared to the previous day. Borrelli also praised the nations health workers for their nonstop contributions. My thoughts are with medical professionals ... who are doing their best to protect all of us, he said. A team of doctors and nurses from Romania and Norway is being dispatched to Milan and Bergamo, the European Union said on Tuesday in a statement. Austria has offered over , liters of disinfectant to Italy. These nurses and doctors, who left their homes to help their colleagues in other member states are the true faces of European solidarity, European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen said. On Monday, Italy received a delivery of personal protective equipment from China. The commission said a Chinese plane delivered  million surgical masks, , N masks and , testing kits to the country. Too early to lift lockdown Paris on Tuesday banned daytime jogging to keep people from bending anticoronavirus lockdown rules as top health official Jerome Salomon said that , people had died of COVID in France since March . Of these, , had perished in hospitals, including  new deaths, and , in agedcare homes, he said, warning the epidemic is continuing its progression. Senior government officials warned it was too early to think of lifting the nationwide lockdownwhich came into force on March  and is set to run until April . Interior Minister Christophe Castaner urged municipal officials to toughen restrictions on movement if necessary, and Paris announced a ban on outdoor sports by individuals between  am and  pm, from Wednesday. Jonathan Powell andEarle Gale in London, Xinhua and agencies contributed to this story.