New York to require stateworker vaccines
2021/7/29 11:58
A healthcare worker prepares a dose of the Johnson  Johnson vaccine for the coronavirus disease during the opening of the MTAs public vaccination program at Grand Central Terminal train station in Manhattan in New York City, New York, on May , .  New York state on Wednesday told approximately , state employees they must show proof of COVID vaccination or face coronavirus testing. New York State will mandate all state employees either be vaccinated or get tested regularly, New York Governor Andrew Cuomo tweeted Wednesday. The new state policy will go into effect by Labor Day Sept , he said. The governor also announced a much stricter mandate for staterun hospitals, saying that all patientfacing healthcare workers at those facilities will be required to be vaccinated, without the option of regular testing. Our healthcare workers carried us through this pandemicand we owe it to them to do what we can to keep Delta under control, Cuomo tweeted. Cuomos announcement comes two days after New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio announced a similar requirement for the city governments , employees. Earlier this week, California Governor Gavin Newsom also adopted a vaccinationortesting requirement that would cover , state government employees, as well as  million healthcare workers in the public and private sectors. Starting this Friday, New York City will pay  to anyone who goes to a cityrun vaccination site for their first dose of a COVID vaccine, de Blasio announced Wednesday. When you get your first dose, you will get a  incentive, the mayor said in his daily briefing. It does not get better than that. The currencyinducing coronavirus shots will be at all cityrun vaccination sites for those who can show proof of New York residency or employment, de Blasio said. The money will be issued in prepaid debit cards that can either be emailed to recipients in digital form or mailed in physical form to their homes. More than  percent of the citys total population is unvaccinated. The citys sevenday average test positivity rate reached . percent on Wednesday, the highest in months, while  people were admitted to hospitals for COVID, according to Health Department data. President Joe Biden plans to formally announce on Thursday that all civilian federal employees must be vaccinated against the coronavirus or be required to submit to regular testing, social distancing, mask requirements and restrictions on most travel, two people familiar with the presidents plans said Wednesday, according to The New York Times. On Capitol Hill, more than a dozen Republican lawmakers refused to comply with the newly reinstated mask requirement in the House on Wednesday, facing potential  fines. Most of the  House Republicans complied with wearing masks on the House floor after the Capitol physician announced late Tuesday night that they would once again be mandatory amid the spread of the highly contagious Delta variant. Most of the Republicans refusing to wear masks have declined to say if they are vaccinated or have openly confirmed that they arent. All Democrats in the House and Senate, meanwhile, have confirmed publicly that they are vaccinated. The mask order in the House of Representatives came after the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention issued new recommendations for mask use Tuesday, urging all vaccinated and unvaccinated individuals to wear a mask indoors if they live in areas with a high spread of the delta variant. Some states and cities, including Nevada and Kansas City, Missouri, quickly reinstated mask mandates after federal officials released their new guidance. Others, including California, Oregon and Washington, issued recommendations that vaccinated people wear masks. Meanwhile, Pfizer reported Wednesday that the protection of its twodose COVID vaccine holds up for at least six months, although it may start to wane slightly toward the end of that time. A preprint study funded by the company determined that the vaccines effectiveness reached a high point of . percent within two months after the second dose. But the effectiveness of the PfizerBioNTech COVID vaccine declined gradually to . percent within six months, with an average decrease of about  percent every two months. Even with the slip in efficacy, the data indicates the vaccine offers protection six months later. The efficacy of the vaccine against severe disease including hospitalizations remained at  percent.