Language teacher from Japan joins volunteers in fight against virus
2020/4/9 9:20
Yamazaki Yumiko gives online class to her student.?Photo provided to China Daily Editors note In this series, we share stories and experiences showing how expats are dealing with the novel coronavirus pneumonia outbreak. Despite the COVID outbreak, Yamazaki Yumiko decided to return to China early from her hometown in Japans Sendai city in late January. Yamazaki, , runs a foreign language institute with her husband in Changchun, capital of Chinas Jilin province. I had planned to return on Feb  after spending the Spring Festival holiday with my son, who is studying in a college in Japan, she said. When I got the news that the educational institutes might be asked to suspend classes due to the epidemic, I decided to come back to take online classes for my students even though neither my husband nor my son agreed with me. Besides, I wanted to stay with my Chinese students, friends and relatives through their hard days, she said. I will never forget the day when a magnitude  earthquake hit eastern Japan in March . Local residents showed full support and sent their best wishes to my motherland. Back then, local Chinese hung banners that said, Stay Strong, Japan along the busiest streets of Changchun, she recalled. Some college students volunteered to raise donations for the disaster rescue. Yamazaki Yumiko prepares for disinfecting in her community as a volunteer.?Photo provided to China Daily Dream realized Yamazaki came to Changchun in October  to learn Chinese language in Jilin University, and got married to a Chinese man in June . She began to teach in the universitys Japanese Department until , when the couple started their institute, where Japanese language was taught. Sendai and Changchun are sister cities, she said. I was born in Sendai but Changchun has become my second hometown, where I realized my dream of becoming a teacher. I must do something for the city I have deeply loved, she said. Although I cant fight against the virus on the front line like medical workers, I hope I can give my students more power and confidence. She spends six hours every day, giving online classes in pronunciation, grammar and spoken Japanese for her students. Yamazaki has added a lot of content about COVID in her lessons. A student said he was honored to learn about the construction of two hospitalsHuoshenshan and Leishenshanwithin a short time in Wuhan, in my class. Yamazaki Yumiko middle together with the community staff and other volunteers.?Photo provided to China Daily Community support After her return from Japan, Yamazaki has received a lot of support from the local foreign affairs office and the community where she lives. They sent me masks and disinfectant, and provided me with help whenever I needed, she said. Yamazaki said she was impressed with the work done by the community workers. I decided to become a volunteer, assisting them in epidemic control and prevention work during my spare time. Together with the community workers and other volunteers, she engaged herself in disinfecting, patrolling and checking residents temperature in the community. The lowest temperature in Changchun is still around minus  C in early spring, making disinfection a difficult task. Sometimes the disinfectant drops on my coat, turning into thin ice with a strange smell, she said. But I believe it will be a memorable experience for me to participate in the fight against virus as a foreigner. Since the outbreak, my students have sent me countless messages via WeChat and QQ, as well as email, asking me to wear masks and gloves when stepping outside as a precautionary measure, she said. When we finally defeat the epidemic, I want to return to my classroom, she said. I am so eager to have facetoface classes and give a big hug to all my students.