Huawei quietly pitches in to help Canada
2020/4/9 9:15
? A Huawei company logo is pictured at the Shenzhen International Airport in Shenzhen, Guangdong province, July , .  Chinese telecommunications giant Huawei has been quietly shipping millions of masks and other protective equipment to Canada to help frontline medical workers to cope with the coronavirus outbreak there. Although the federal government has issued a national call asking domestic businesses to offer products and services to help fill demand, Canada has seen a critical shortage of lifesaving medical equipment amid growing COVID cases. The shortage was exacerbated on Thursday when United States President Donald Trumps administration told US manufacturer M to stop sending medicalgrade face masks to Canada and Latin America. However, the company later announced it had reached a deal to send respirators to Canada and countries in Latin America. Meanwhile, Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau told the media on Saturday that Canada would be receiving a shipment of millions of masks from unnamed countries and companies in the next  hours. Huaweis donation, including more than one million masks, goggles and gloves, was accepted by the British Columbia government late last week, but not acknowledged publicly until the provinces Health Minister Adrian Dix announced on Monday the arrival of timely supplies. The province has many supply sources included transfers from our federal partners and a variety of domestic and international suppliers, Dix told PostmediaNews. We dont share details about our suppliers. Some observers see Huaweis donation as being linked to the company seeking approval to join Canadas nextgeneration G network, and to the case of Meng Wanzhou, its chief financial officer, who was arrested in Vancouver in . But Huawei said it is simply trying to help by fulfilling a corporate responsibility. Particularly valuable And the companys donation is a particularly valuable one as the rapid spread of COVID sparks a global race to purchase masks, according to The Globe and Mail. Asked by the media about Huaweis gift, Trudeau on Tuesday said that donations of medical supplies from foreign companies will not change how the government views those companies going forward. Separately, Alykhan Velshi, Huawei Canadas vicepresident of corporate affairs, said the company was reaching out to provinces across Canada to provide medical masks and other equipment, but it is not something it intends to promote or publicize. Many companies are making similar efforts and were fortunate were in a position logistically and financially to help out as much as we have been, Velshi told Postmedia. Were in a unique position in that we have , employees in communities across Canada. So we see the need. As a global multinational we operate in more than  countries, so were able to locate and access supplies. Our scale and logistical capabilities mean were able to move fast, said Velshi. Huawei has donated millions of protective masks around the world since March to help fight the COVID pandemic.