Robots on the front line in the war against COVID
2020/4/9 8:58
No need for protective gear, this frontline worker screening out potential coronavirus patients at a government office is a robot. The robot, named PEP, uses artificial intelligence to support teams of human workers assigned to do everything they can to contain the spread of the disease. PEP was on duty when civil servants at the Electrical and Mechanical Services Department in Kowloon Bay returned to work in early March. The eagleeyed robot, waiting at the entrance, checked everyone coming in during the high traffic periods every day. Anyone running a temperature is swiftly sorted out. During offpeak hours, the robot patrols areas inside the building, leaving nothing to chance. These robotic assistants are standing watch at some of the citys cultural and sports centers, medical establishments and government buildings. It can spot a fever up to eight meters away, checking out multiple passersby on a single pass. PEP uses a thermal imaging camera for detecting people who are feverish. Another camera is set up for facial recognition. The camera is also able to capture the images of targets around them and then upload the data to cloud storage. Once PEP spots someone whose temperature is above the threshold set by management, it will set off an alarm. Meanwhile, the human worker in charge of monitoring the robots operations receives the alert through a mobile device connected with the robots software system. The human monitor also sees photographs of people apprehended by the robot through the mobile unit, and then heshe can direct hisher colleagues to find the target for further examination. If the target is proven to be infected with the novel coronavirus pneumonia, the image data will assist to identify those had close contact with the patient. Clients can set their own parameters, like whether the image data will be saved and how long the data can be saved, in accordance with their own privacy policies. The robot was developed by Roborn Technology. Mark Mak Hinyu, cofounder of the locallybased company, said AI helps the robot recognize the human forehead. It reduces the chance to give false alarms. Without the recognition technology, the alarm would be triggered by a sip of hot coffee, or those just opening their mouths, he explained. False alarms would strain frontline workers who follow up every alarm. The cameras are adjusted to different heights, to reduce the possibility of running into dead spots. In addition to adults walking upright, kids, wheelchair users or those sitting in a canteen can be detected easily by the robots, said Mak. A race with contagion It took only  days for the Hong Kongbased research and development team to complete the design and assembly of the smart robot. Larry Poon Kayeung, cofounder and chief executive officer of Roborn, saw the opening for a smart robot during the earliest stages, when the COVID pandemic started in January and before Hong Kong had tightened local screening and containment. The first thought was for frontline workers, who are at high risk of infection because their jobs made them responsible for dealing with hundreds or thousands of people who might be carriers. Security guards stand at entrances with manual, infrared temperature guns, and check, at close quarters, every person coming in. But robots can replace them to do this risky job, effectively easing their burden amid the pandemic, said Poon. A team of about  company employees went to work on Jan , abandoning their Chinese New Year plans. Their aim was to devise an effective tool for protecting frontline workers, Poon recalled. After the race kicked off, members of the team slept an average of only four hours a day, he said. The two weeks of relative sleep deprivation paid off. The robot was approved for a test run at the entrances to government buildings by midFebruary. By late March, about  of the robots were deployed at several buildings across Hong Kong. Poon says the company already is working to fill orders for  more devices. Crisis means opportunities for local scitech companies. One Hong Kong hotel uses a robotic approach to keeping watch on social distancing guidelines, while the outbreak lasts. Since the beginning of March, Lhotel Island South in Wong Chuk Hang, Hong Kong Island, has hired a special helper for its hospitality staff. Appropriately named Genie, the hotel describes it as an AIbased robot with full immunity to the dreaded virus, or any virus, for that matter. Genie does some of the riskiest assignments, like making deliveries of food or other stuff guests need to their rooms. The hotel has guests in quarantine. The Hong Kong government requires all arrivals from overseas and the Chinese mainland to undergo a day quarantine at their living places. Some people choose to book a hotel to avoid close contact with their families during the quarantine. Whats more, Genie is quite a capable worker, according to Catherine Yuen, senior marketing communications manager of Lhotel Management Company. Each time, the robot can deliver up to two meal sets and eight beverages to guests. Engineers map the hotel into the robots memory. A staff member keys in the guests room number to Genies control panel and puts the food and drinks in the container. Then, Genie sallies forth. It navigates around the hotel along designated routes and stop in front of the preassigned room waiting for the guest to retrieve the deliveries after inputting a correct password. After the guest closes the cover of the container, the delivery is completed. When Genies software system is connected with the elevators control system, it can use the elevators to serve guests on different floors. Genie sends instructions to control the elevator via connected systems. Genie was also designed and developed in Hong Kong by Rice Robotics in the middle of last year. Genie removes much unnecessary contact between hotel guests and staff, and that helps lower the risks of crossinfection during the coronavirus pandemic, Victor Lee, the founder and the chief executive officer of the company said. In late March, the hotel bought two more delivery robots to reassure guests who had expressed fears about crosscontamination. The pandemic helped spur company sales, as companies recognized the seriousness of social distancing. Local hotels and shopping malls have contacted Lee over the past few months, saying they want a delivery robot too. The preorder numbers have been in doubledigit growth, Lee revealed. In a post written by Chief Executive Carrie Lam Cheng Yuetngor on her social media account on March , Lam noted science and technology deserve full credit during the fight against the novel coronavirus. Local technology companies and universities have come up with several protective devices for dealing with the pandemic. There are the Dprinted protective face shields for frontline medical workers, smart wrist bands for people in quarantine and new smart antimicrobial coating which can be used in nursing homes. These antiepidemic devices show Hong Kong has a promising future in innovation and technology, Lam said. Poons team was making a smart robot to disinfect potential hotspots for infection. Lee and his colleagues are figuring out how to optimize the functions of Genie, their delivery robot. People generally believe the booming business for scitech companies will continue, even after the horror of COVID has become an unsettling memory. Poon sees it like this  the coronavirus pandemic will change peoples living habits and create new needs as the SARS outbreak brought changes to Hong Kongs way of life. After more than  people died of SARS in Hong Kong in , local residents have learnt a bitter lesson to wear surgical masks in flu seasons, particularly when they or people around them have symptoms of respiratory infection, Poon explained. As of Wednesday, Hong Kong had confirmed  cases of COVID, while global infections have surged past the .million mark. Poon reckoned that temperature measurement and strict disinfection standards in public areas will be a new norm for every person and place of business even after this global health crisis. Contact the writer at kathyzhangchinadailyhk.com ?