New measures to support ChinaEurope trains aim to help exporters
2020/4/9 8:23
Mutual antipandemic assistance has tempered the bonds of friendship between the Chinese and Serbian people The sudden outbreak and rapid spread of the novel coronavirus has been difficult to prevent and control, and it has had a wideranging impact. Their antipandemic cooperation has fortified the ironclad friendship between China and Serbia, vividly illustrating the concept of a community with a shared future for humanity. At the beginning of the epidemic fight in China, Serbia offered its firm support. Serbian President Aleksandar Vucic sent a letter to President Xi Jinping, praising Chinas national strength, transparency, efficiency and unity in the face of the severe challenge, expressing his confidence that China would overcome the epidemic, and stating that Serbia would do all it could to provide support and help. Prime Minister Ana Brnabic also sent a letter of condolences to Premier Li Keqiang. At the height of the outbreak in February, the First Deputy Prime Minister and Foreign Minister of Serbia Ivica Dacic led a delegation to visit China, becoming the first foreign minister received by China after the outbreak. The government of Serbia provided emergency medical aid in the face of Chinas insufficient supplies at that time. The national committee for cooperation with China, headed by former Serbian president Tomislav Nikolic, also moved quickly to actively support Serbian companies in making donations to China. Following the rapid spread of the outbreak in Europe, there has been a rapid increase in confirmed cases in Serbia and there is a significant risk of a concentrated outbreak. Serbia hoped that China would be able to offer support and help. The Chinese government has done so, providing Serbia with medical supplies such as respirators, masks and protective clothing and dispatching medical teams to assist the country. At the same time, under the close coordination of the Chinese embassy in Serbia and the Serbian government, a batch of nucleic acid testing kits donated by Chinese enterprises have arrived in Belgrade, which became the first international aid received by Serbia since the outbreak of the epidemic. On March , the Chinese government aid and medical experts flew to Belgrade, President Vucic, welcomed the medical team at the airport in person and gave them elbow greetings. He kissed the national flags of the two countries, and delivered a warm speech, saying the arrival of the Chinese experts has raised the confidence and hope of the Serbian people that the outbreak can be quickly controlled, and that from generation to generation, they will remember the kindness of Chinese people and always stand with them. The Chinese team of experts started work immediately on arrival. They went to the front line, inspected the development of the epidemic situation on the spot, and shared Chinas experience of prevention and treatment with the Serbian experts. The Serbian side has attached great importance to the advice of these Chinese experts. The expert group was invited to attend the meeting of the prevention and control chaired by the president and the prime minister personally. Based on the suggestions of the expert group, Serbia decided to expand the scope of infection detection, curb the momentum of the virus spread and construct a cabin hospital for the treatment of patients with mild symptoms. During the cooperation on fighting the pandemic, the friendly interactions between the two peoples were even more touching. At the most severe moment of Chinas fight against the epidemic, the Serbian government held a concert to show support for China. When the situation in China improved, the Serbian people were as happy as we were. When we learned that the people of Serbia needed help, our people supported the government in providing aid, sending experts and in various ways supporting the Serbian people. The Serbian people praised China for offering unconditional help to other countries while its fight against the pandemic was still under way, which demonstrated Chinas responsibility as a major country and the noble sentiments of the Chinese people. The Serbian people also expressed their gratitude to China in many ways, such as holding a thankyou banner in the center of Belgrade. Netizens also expressed their gratitude to China, saying a friend in need is a friend indeed and friendship is stronger than gold. The ironclad friendship between China and Serbia is rooted in the decadeslong history of bilateral relations and the recognition by the two peoples of the approach to statetostate relations featuring mutual respect, mutual trust and mutual support. In the joint fight against the virus, the Chinese and Serbian people are taking their traditional friendship to new heights. After the outbreak, bilateral relations will surely embrace new development opportunities. The author is the Chinese ambassador to Serbia. The author contributed this article to China Watch, a think tank powered by China Daily. The views do not necessarily reflect those of China Daily.