Postponement of Olympics will affect other sports events
2020/4/9 7:10
A man wearing a protective face mask, following an outbreak of the coronavirus, stands in front of The Tokyo Olympic flag  at The Japan Olympics museum in Tokyo, Japan, Feb , .  The Tokyo  Olympic Games has been deferred to next year despite the International Olympic Committee President Thomas Bach and Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe previously stressing that the Summer Olympics would be held on schedule. The IOCs decision on March  to postpone the  Games was necessitated by the threat the novel coronavirus pandemic poses to the world at large. Although the IOC and the  Olympics organizers once considered holding the Games without spectators to reduce the risk of virus transmission, the Japanese government always insisted that the Tokyo Olympic Games would be held in stadiums full of spectators, because the absence of sports fans would significantly reduce the level of competition. While talking about the Games postponement, Bach admitted that cancellation had been on the table for some time, but said that it was not the choice favored by the IOC, because our mission is to hold the Olympic Games and realize the Olympic dream of the athletes. This is the first time the Olympic Games has been postponed in peacetime. The last time the Summer Games was canceled was in , and that was because of World War II. The Summer Games has been cancelled only three times and all because of world wars the Berlin Olympics in  due to World War I, and the Helsinki and London Games in  and  because of World War II. Yet the postponement of the Tokyo Olympicswhich will now start on July , , and conclude on Aug  but still be called the  Olympics Gameswill have a big impact on Japans economy. The postponement of the Tokyo Games will also require the Olympic Charter to be amended, which stipulates that the Olympics must be held in the first year of the fouryear Olympic cycle. And only after the Olympic Charter is revised can the delay of the Tokyo Games be justified. According to a sports economics professor at Kansai University, the direct economic loss caused by postponement of the Games could be about  billion, mainly because of the increased operating costs, including the cost of venue maintenance and repair. Small and mediumsized Japanese enterprises, including those in the tourism, hospitality and catering sectors, will incur the maximum losses. To make matters worse, these sectors are already reeling under the impact of the novel coronavirus pandemic, and labor costs comprise a big percentage of their overall expenses. The Tokyo Organizing Committee for the Olympic Games, which already has more than , staff, will have to hire more people on shortterm contracts as the rescheduled Games approaches, which will further increase the labor cost. Thankfully, the Games has not been canceled, otherwise the host country could have lost about  billion. The huge loss inflicted by the epidemic on the Tokyo Games organizing committee may also have a farreaching impact on the Olympic bids in the future. Bidding for the Games is not as popular as it used to be. As such, the epidemic outbreak could prompt more than one country to bid for a single Olympics in the future because of the rising risks of hosting the Games. The postponement of the Tokyo Games will also have a huge impact on global sport events. Over the years, international sports events have been following an Olympiccentric schedule, which ensures that no other global sports events are held during the Summer Olympics. But now that the Tokyo Games has been deferred to , it could clash with such major sports events as the World Aquatic Championships and the World Athletics Championships. Incomplete data suggest the deferring of the Tokyo Games will force at least  major sport events to be rescheduled. The postponement of the Olympics will also directly affect all kinds of largescale sports events scheduled to be held in China in  and . In other words, the postponement of the Tokyo Games, although necessary, does not augur well for other international and regional sports events. The author is director of the School of Economic and Management, Shanghai University of Sport. The views dont necessarily reflect those of China Daily.