Ronaldinho leaves jail for luxurious Paraguayan hotel
2020/4/9 0:00
A Paraguayan judge on Tuesday ordered the release of Brazilian soccer great Ronaldinho and his brother into house arrest while they await trial on charges of using counterfeit passports to enter the country. Judge Gustavo Amarilla told reporters that he had ordered the continuation of house arrest in a hotel for Ronaldinho and his brother. The pair were jailed one month ago to await trial, but their lawyers have posted bail of . million. Ronaldinho, considered one of the greatest players of all time, was a star of Brazils  World Cup win and played for European giants Barcelona, Paris SaintGermain and AC Milan, among others. The ruling means the brothers can swap their grim police cell blockwhich has also housed Paraguays former soccer federation chief and the exspeaker of the lower house of parliamentfor a plush colonialstyle hotel in downtown Asuncion. The brochure of the refurbished room Palmaroga Hotel, located in the capitals historic center, describes it as offering a seamless blend of early s Renaissance grace and modern comfort as well as luxury. I have the assurance of the hotel managers that they, at their own expense, can observe house arrest there, Amarilla told a news conference. Paraguays appeals court last month rejected a request to release the pair, meaning the twotime world player of the year spent his th birthday behind bars. With Paraguays capital on lockdown due to the coronavirus pandemic, the judge communicated his ruling in a cellphone call to the brothers, with prosecutors and defense lawyersand TV cameraspresent. The judge and many others wore face masks as a precaution against the virus. A beaming Ronaldinho, in a black Tshirt and matching headband, gave a thumbsup sign to show he understood the terms of his release. He and his brother, Roberto de Assis Moreirawho is also his business managerinitially encountered no problems after arriving in Asuncion from neighboring Brazil on March . However, shortly after their arrival, the brothers were taken into police custody when investigators raided their hotel following the discovery that their passports were fake. Ronaldinho, given a rock stars welcome to Asuncion by around , children and teenagers, said the passports had been given to him by sponsors of a charity working with disadvantaged kids. Fourteen other people have been charged in the case, which has expanded into an investigation into possible money laundering. An arrest warrant has been issued for the Paraguayan businesswoman in charge of the charity foundation that invited Ronaldinho. He proved a popular inmate of the police headquarters jail where he was held, donating a trophy to the winning team in a recent prisoners futsal tournament. Reuters Ronaldinho has been released from jail into house arrest following his arrest in Paraguay earlier this month. ? ?