Traffic out of Wuhan resumes
2020/4/9 0:00
After  days of lockdown, Wuhan, the capital of Hubei province, lifted outbound travel restrictions on Wednesday as the novel coronavirus outbreak has been effectively controlled in the city that was hit hardest on the Chinese mainland. The reopening of the city is considered to be proof of the monumental progress China has made in its fight against the contagion as the pandemic rages in other parts of the world. Barricades set up at highway entrances in Wuhan were removed at midnight. Cars lined up at expressway toll gates, and drivers honked their horns and left the city. Wuhan traffic police had forecast that expressways would see a peak of outbound vehicles on Wednesday. Guo Lei, who has a business in Wuhan, was driving with six others in his car for a trip home. I cant wait to return to my hometown, said Guo, a native of Shandong province. During the Spring Festival holiday, my relatives came to the city and helped me deliver goods. We were all stranded here due to the epidemic. Passengers boarded trains and planes to leave the city early on Wednesday morning. The railway and airport authorities required passengers to scan codes on their phones indicating their health status and have their temperature checked as they entered train stations and the airport. Passengers also were asked to wear masks to reduce the risk of infection. The first intercity train left Wuhan at  am and arrived at Jingzhou, Hubei province. The highspeed train then departed for Nanning, the capital of the Guangxi Zhuang autonomous region, at  am. It was the first highspeed train to leave Wuhan after the lockdown ended. Li Fei, the trains engineer, said he was happy to drive the first highspeed train after the lockdown was lifted. Wuhan is one of the countrys highspeed railway hubs, and it will see a lot of passengers in coming days, Li said. Im ready to work with my colleagues to provide safe service to passengers from around the country. Song Weixing, , who took the train to Nanning, where he works, said he had planned to stay in Wuhan with his family for a week during the Lunar New Year holiday, but was stranded in the city for more than  days because of the lockdown. They were really tough days, but we have finally emerged from the difficulties. I want to go back to work immediately, Song said. On Wednesday,  trains departed from Wuhan to cities including Shanghai Shenzhen, Guangdong province and Chengdu, Sichuan province, with more than , passengers on board. At  am, a China Eastern Airlines flight bound for Sanya, Hainan province, took off from Wuhan Tianhe International Airport, signaling the resumption of the citys regularly scheduled flights. More than  inbound and outbound domestic flights were scheduled for the day, the airport said. Liu Hanbai, who works at the Shanghai branch of Proswell Medical Co, a pharmaceutical services company, took the flight to Shanghai on Wednesday. He had been on a business trip to Wuhan and was stranded there for more than a month. The boarding process went very well. Passengers sit separately, and only onethird of the full seating capacity was sold. I didnt see anybody taking off their mask to drink or eat anything, he added. City officials have worked to make an event of the citys reopening, with a light show, social media campaigns led by media outlets and special events to mark the reopening of the airport and train stations. Skyscrapers in the city center were lit up with messages like Hello, Wuhan and Stay Strong, Wuhan. Netizens expressed their joy on social media platforms. Wuhan lockdown lifted. Seeing these words almost makes me shed tears, a netizen wrote on Weibo. After so much struggle, Wuhan has come back. Public transportation including buses, subways and ferries also resumed, further proof the city is reawakening from a standstill. On Jan , Wuhan declared unprecedented restrictions on movement, including suspending the citys public transportation and all outbound flights and trains, in an attempt to contain the disease. Since the risk of infection remains, authorities ask residents to limit their outings and not to attend large gatherings. Many residential compounds remain closed off, with strict epidemic prevention and control measures. A statement released by local authorities on Tuesday warned that zero cases of infection does not mean zero risks, and lifting travel restrictions does not mean lifting prevention and control measures. Shopping malls, supermarkets, parks and hospitals that have reopened should strictly control visitor numbers and check peoples temperature to avoid crossinfections. Schools in Hubei will continue to delay opening until further notice, the statement said. Wang Ying in Shanghai contributed to this story. Contact the writers at caodeshengchinadaily.com.cn ? Passengers wait to enter Wuhan Railway Station on Wednesday morning. Wuhan, the city in Hubei province that had been the epicenter of the coronavirus outbreak on the Chinese mainland, began lifting outbound travel restrictions on Wednesday after almost  weeks of lockdown. CAI YANGXINHUA ? ? People departing from Wuhan wave from a car near an expressway toll station in western Wuhan on Wednesday. KE HAOFOR CHINA DAILY ? ?