Food delivery services feel pinch
2020/4/9 0:00
After watching the number of coronavirus cases in the Los Angeles area escalate in the previous  hours and braving a few trips to grocery stores in person, Cindy Wu decided to schedule food delivery online, but that was no easy task. There was just no availability for food delivery on the websites of a lot of the major grocery outlets, said Wu, a resident of Alhambra, California. She is a member of Amazon Prime and has been trying for a week to book a delivery slot on Amazon Fresh. By the time she got a slot, half of the items in her online cart were no longer available. The demand for grocery delivery is facing a crunch as cities and states across the United States mandate or recommend people stay at home, and more consumers choose to have groceries delivered to their doorstep instead of risking exposure in public. A quick search recently on the grocery delivery service Instacart revealed no delivery options were available for the next three days for an address in Arcadia, California, near Alhambra. On the website of Vons, a Southern California supermarket chain with some locations in Nevada, delivery options for the next three days have all been unavailable. Amazon Fresh had this message displayed on its front page Inventory and delivery may be temporarily unavailable due to increased demand. New windows are released during the day. It feels like we are essential to so many Americansmillions and millions around the country who are depending on Amazon and other services like it to deliver things that they might otherwise have felt comfortable getting at a physical store, said Jay Carney, senior vicepresident of global corporate affairs at Amazon, to CNN in a recent interview. Amazon is temporarily prioritizing the shipment of medical supplies and household staples. Some Amazon warehouse workers in Staten Island, New York, staged a walkout Monday asking for better pay and safety protections after a worker there tested positive for COVID. A similar protest took place at an Amazon warehouse in Michigan, after an employee tested positive for the infectious virus. Workers at an Amazon facility in Chicago held demonstrations after one of their colleagues tested positive for the virus. Amazon said it plans to roll out temperature checks and face masks for employees at all locations. San Franciscobased Instacart said it has seen the highest customer demand in the history of the company. Order volumes jump In the last few weeks, the company has seen order volume grow by more than  percent yearoveryear, with average customer basket size also increasing by  percent, the company said in a statement. Instacart found itself in the spotlight recently when some of its workers organized a nationwide strike to demand better health protections and hazard pay of  per order. The company said Thursday it will supply its fullservice employees free health and safety kits containing reusable cloth face masks, hand sanitizer and thermometers beginning this week. On March , Instacart announced plans to hire , new fullservice employees over the next three months in response to increased demand. In the week since that announcement, , new people have signed up. A spokesman for the Boise, Idahobased Albertsons Co Inc, the parent company of Vons, said its delivery services have experienced higherthanusual demand. Open slots for pickup As we add open slots for delivery and pickup, they are being reserved quickly by customers, the spokesman said. The company is hiring , new employees, including delivery drivers and personal shoppers, to help meet the demand. On Tuesday, Albertsons and United Food and Commercial Workers International Union joined together in an effort to push for grocery workers to be classified as first responders, a designation that would ensure that they are prioritized for testing and provided personal protection equipment amid the public health crisis. A spokeswoman for Walmart, the worlds largest retailer, said the US multinational company is seeing an increase in the number of orders coming in for our pickup and delivery services along with customers in our stores. Were offering time slots to customers for as soon as the same day and up to one day in advance, rather than time frames further out, she added. On Friday, Walmart announced that starting Saturday, stores would allow no more than five customers for each , square feet at any given time. On Monday, two employees at a Walmart store in the Chicago area reportedly died from coronavirus. The family of one of the employees who died filed a wrongful death lawsuit against the retailer alleging the company failed to provide safety protections and failed to warn customers and workers that various individuals were experiencing symptoms at the store and may have been infected by COVID, according to the lawsuit. Walmart said it is taking the issue seriously. Minneapolis, Minnesotabased Target Corp, which owns Shipt, a grocery delivery service, said Thursday that it will limit customer traffic in all of its stores to promote social distancing, as of Saturday. A group of Shipt workers organized a walkout Tuesday to ask for better protection and benefits. The Birmingham, Alabamabased company offered two weeks of paid sick leave for employees who tested positive for COVID.It said Monday that it is providing employees with a set of gloves and masks within the next two weeks. According to the marketing research firm Nielsen, only  percent of grocery sales in the country came from online purchases last year. As of March , downloads of the Instacart app were up  percent over last year, and Walmarts grocery app was up  percent. Data shows that many new online subscribers are over the age of , researchers said. Consumers also are struggling to get their hands on personal protective equipment such as masks and gloves. Jackie Wei, CEO of Sanberd Inc, a company in Walnut, California, that focuses on international ecommerce and overseas warehousing and sources its materials from suppliers in China, said these products usually are sold out within two hours after appearing on shelves online. teresaliuchinadailyusa.com ?