Mongolian jerky expert gains a global audience with cultural broadcasts
2020/4/9 0:00
HOHHOTAltantuya spends about four hours every day livestreaming the processing craft of beef jerky and other Mongolian dishes in her factory in North Chinas Inner Mongolia autonomous region. After putting on her darkblue uniform, a disposable mask and gloves in a processing room, Altantuya picks up a chunk of beef and slaps it on a chopping board. I can tell if the beef quality is premium from the way it vibrates. The skill can only be obtained through practice, not words, Altantuya tells her audience. Altantuya developed a keen interest in the beef jerkymaking technique from an early age and became the fourthgeneration inheritor of her familys special recipe for traditional Mongolian airdried meat. In , she opened a processing facility in her hometown of Xilin Gol League, which is known for fine livestock and highquality dairy products. The factory, covering an area of nearly , square meters, produces about  metric tons of beef jerky per year. At the beginning, Altantuya sold her products at brickandmortar stores and supermarkets. In , she expanded her business by opening stores on ecommerce platforms. For her unique jerkymaking technique and successful startup experience, she was named a regionallevel inheritor of the intangible cultural heritage of the Mongolian airdried meat processing craft in . But the entrepreneurial journey just tells one part of her story. Altantuya has been searching for ways to publicize Mongolian ethnic culture. We are what we eat. As an inheritor of the intangible cultural heritage, I shoulder a responsibility to spread the Mongolian dietary culture to more people across the world, she said. In July, Altantuya turned her eyes to TikTok, a globally popular videosharing app. It has attracted more active users during the coronavirus epidemic as many people selfisolate at home. I have about  new followers every day. After the factory resumed production in late March, I employed some livestream hosts to introduce Mongolian cuisine and dietary culture on other videosharing platforms, Altantuya said. I hope more people can see them. Altantuya even built a yurt in the yard of her processing plant to film short videos. So far, she has uploaded more than  short videos featuring traditional Mongolian cuisine, etiquette and customs, and even her pet wolf cubs. She received more than , likes for one of her videos. The videos only display a bit of the Mongolian ethnic culture. Many followers say they want to see more, Altantuya said. I feel very proud of my culture. Xinhua ? ?