Seoul tops up funds, as Abe looks ahead
2020/4/9 0:00
SEOULSouth Korean President Moon Jaein said on Wednesday that his government will add about  billion to an economic stimulus package planned to help the country withstand the fallout from the coronavirus outbreak. Moon said the stimulus package was aimed at reinvigorating exports, bolstering domestic demand and supporting startups. South Korea reported  more cases on Wednesday, raising the total number of infections to ,. Prime Minister Chung Syekyun said the government will temporarily suspend visafree entry and visawaiver programs with  countries and expand entry restrictions on foreigners traveling for nonessential reasons. In Japan, Prime Minister Shinzo Abe said he believed the state of emergency could be lifted in a month with citizens cooperation as Tokyo and six other prefectures entered their first day of a soft lockdown. However, many have cast doubts on its effectiveness as there are no legal penalties for noncompliance on calls for people to stay home and businesses to shut. Japan had recorded , infections and  deaths as of Wednesday. Malaysia on Tuesday saw  newly confirmed cases, taking the total number to ,. Among those infected, , patients have been discharged from hospitals. Wearing masks In Israel, the health ministry said the country had signed a deal worth about . million with Chinese biotech giant BGI Genomics involving equipment and materials that can enable at least , coronavirus tests a day. The ministry also announced on Tuesday that all those aged above six will be required to wear face masks outside their homes from Sunday. Total infections in the country have risen to ,, with  deaths. In Iran, President Hassan Rouhani on Wednesday urged the International Monetary Fund to provide emergency funding, saying there should be no discrimination in giving loans. Irans central bank chief Abdolnaser Hemmati wrote last month to the IMF to request  billion from the funds Rapid Financing Initiative, an emergency program that aids countries faced with sudden shocks. An IMF official has said the fund is in talks with Iranian authorities over the request. The outbreak in Iran had killed , people and infected , by Wednesday. For Africa, the number of cases topped , on Tuesday, spread over  countries. Shortages of protective gear are acute in many countries that have some of the worlds most illequipped and poorly funded health systems. This is the case for South Sudan, which announced its second case on Tuesday. South Africas main health workers union planned to challenge the government in court on Tuesday over shortages of protective gear for frontline staff as the country braced for a surge in novel coronavirus cases. By Tuesday, the number had reached ,, the most in the continent. Wang Xu in Tokyo, Xinhua and agencies contributed to this story. ? Soldiers set up barbed wire in front of a buiding in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, on Tuesday, under an enhanced movement control order to fight COVID in the country. CHONG VOON CHUNGXINHUA ? ?