Flights resume in Wuhan after lockdown ends
2020/4/8 21:23
Passengers of China Eastern Airlines flight MU, the first domestic flight to leave Wuhan Tianhe International Airport as the city lifts its lockdown, receive a gift of Hubei snacks, on April , . Photo by Xu Weiweifor chinadaily.com.cn After a day lockdown in Wuhan, Central Chinas Hubei province, to contain the spread of the COVID epidemic, people who have been staying in the city since Jan  can travel freely, starting from Wednesday. At Shanghais Hongqiao International Airport, a woman surnamed Wu walked out of the exit entrance at about  pm with her husband and two children. They were in the first group of passengers on the WuhanShanghai flight. We went to our hometown, Wuhan, for Chinese New Year and planned to fly back to Shanghai on Jan , but the flight was canceled because of the unexpected lockdown, Wu said. According to Wu, they had to show their health QR codes to enter the Wuhan airport, and had their temperatures taken before boarding, as is the case across the country when people travel by public transportation. Liu Hanbai, who works for a Beijingbased medical technology companys Shanghai branch, took the same flight, China Eastern Airlines MU, as Wu on Wednesday. We sat by a seat interval to each other, and everybody was wearing a mask throughout the flight. We did not talk to each other, having no food or drink onboard, said Liu, who is going to be on a day quarantine by himself. Wu said after completing quarantine at home, she plans to take her son and daughter outside for some time.?The kids have been kept at home for more than  days I will take them to the parks. MU was one of three flights by China Eastern Airlines between Wuhan and Shanghai on Wednesday. About  passengers take the MU flight, and we estimate the passenger load factor at  percent for the three flights from Wuhan to Shanghai today, which is lower than our nationwide average of between  percent and  percent for the moment, said He Jiankai, a deputy general manager of China Eastern. The carrier operated about  flights from and to Wuhan Tianhe International Airport on the first day the city terminated its lockdown. It is estimated that more than , passenger trips would be made by China Eastern leaving Wuhan on Wednesday. China Eastern launched preparation work for the resumption of flights in Wuhan in late March, and all  aircraft for the relaunched flights were thoroughly disinfected, with new air filters installed before the relaunch. About  flights between Wuhan and  Chinese cities are scheduled to be operated by China Eastern between Wednesday and May .