Efficient measures key to containment
2020/4/8 14:14
An employee works at Yutong Logistics in Jiangsu Hongze Ecommerce Industrial Park on July , .  China will establish  pilot zones for crossborder ecommerce to promote stable development of foreign trade, Sina reported on Wednesday. As an emerging business form, crossborder ecommerce has been surging rapidly in recently years. From experiences in the previous  crossborder ecommerce pilot zones, preferential policies including tax exemption can effectively promote crossborder ecommerce development. The expansion of crossborder ecommerce pilot zones aims to allow more areas to benefit from the profits and effectively hedge against the downward pressure of foreign trade growth, said Zhao Ping, director of the international trade research department at the China Council for the Promotion of International Trade Academy. Largescale expansion of pilot zones can also help further their role as a new growth engine for foreign trade, Zhao added. Meanwhile, the th session of the China Import and Export Fair, or the Canton Fair, will be held online in June, as one of the slew of measures to tackle challenges brought by the novel coronavrius pneumonia. The fair was previously scheduled between April  and May . International businesses are invited to showcase their products online with the aid of cuttingedge technologies. Allday services including online promotion, matchmaking on supply and purchase sides, and online negotiation are provided to allow the business platform to facilitate online orders for international businesses. Online business will be the trend of future economic development and with the trade liberalization and digitalization of society, more business will be conducted online. The outbreak of COVID also provided an opportunity and a forced mechanism to speed up online business development and digitalization of the Canton Fair, Zhao said. Chinas foreign trade has been impacted by the ongoing epidemic and the countrys imports and exports totaled . trillion yuan  billion in the first two months of this year, down by . percent yearonyear, according to statistics from the General Administration of Customs. Currently, the impact of net exports on Chinas economy is very small, probably accounting for only  to  percent of the GDP, and the negative impact on Chinas economy may be limited, said Li Gang, researcher for the Institute of Industry and Commerce at the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences. Moreover, the epidemic has brought new economic growth points including demand for masks, so the novel coronavirus pneumonia has limited impact on Chinas foreign trade and economic development, Li said. To stabilize foreign trade and investment, the country has launched a slew of measures, including optimizing export tax rebate exemption services, increasing credit support, issuing force majeure factual certificates, and implementing more favorable import taxation polices.