China Railway Corp sends st medical teams to Nigeria
2020/4/8 10:07
Passengers wait to enter Wuhan Railway Station in Wuhan on the morning of April , . Photo by Ke Haofor chinadaily.com.cn Cars queued up at expressway toll gates and passengers prepared to board trains and planes to leave Wuhan, Hubei province at midnight. The city, the hardesthit area by the COVID outbreak on the Chinese mainland, reopened on Wednesday after a day lockdown. At Fuhe toll gate in nothern Wuhan, cars honked horns and passed through after barricades were removed at midnight. The first intercity train left Wuhan at  am for Jingzhou city in Hubei province. The highspeed train G departed for Nanning, capital of South Chinas Guangxi Zhuang autonomous region, at  am. It was the first highspeed train to depart from Wuhan since the citys lockdown was lifted. A total of  trains will depart from Wuhan on Wednesday to cities including Shanghai, Shenzhen in South Chinas Guangdong province and Chengdu in Southwest Chinas Sichuan province, carrying more than , passengers. China Eastern Airlines flight MU from Wuhan becomes the first domestic flight to leave Wuhan Tianhe International Airport as the city lifts its lockdown on April , . Photo by Zhang Zhengfor chinadaily.com.cn The railway authorities are requiring passengers to scan health codes and have their temperatures checked when entering the stations, and the wearing of masks is mandatory to reduce risk of infection. At , the flight MU bound for Sanya, Hainan province, took off from Wuhan Tianhe International Airport, signaling the resumption of air traffic in Wuhan. The airport is expected to see more than  inbound and outbound domestic flights on the day, according to the airport authority. Big data from Wuhan traffic police forecasted expressways would see a peak of outbound vehicles on Wednesday. On Jan , Wuhan declared unprecedented traffic restrictions, including suspending the citys public transport and all outbound flights and trains, in an attempt to contain the epidemic. Workers at Wuhan Tianhe International Airport wave goodbye to passengers on April , . Photo by Zhang Zhengfor chinadaily.com.cn China Eastern Airlines flight MU from Wuhan becomes the first domestic flight to leave Wuhan Tianhe International Airport as the city lifts its lockdown on April , . Photo by Zhang Zhengfor chinadaily.com.cn All the passengers of China Eastern Airlines flight MU, the first domestic flight to leave Wuhan Tianhe International Airport as the city lifts its lockdown, receive a gift of Hubei snacks, April , . Photo by Xu Weiweifor chinadaily.com.cn China Eastern Airlines flight MU, the first domestic flight from Wuhan Tianhe International Airport after Wuhans lockdown has lifted, arrives at Sanya Phoenix International Airport on the morning of April , . Photo by Sha Xiaofengfor chinadaily.com.cn An airport worker checks the temperature of a passenger at Sanya Phoenix International Airport on the morning of April , . Photo by Sha Xiaofengfor chinadaily.com.cn Passengers wait to enter Wuhan Railway Station in Wuhan on the morning of April , . Photo by Ke Haofor chinadaily.com.cn Passengers check in at Wuhan Railway Station on April , . Photo by Gu Weifor chinadaily.com.cn Passengers check in at Wuhan Railway Station on April , . Photo by Gu Weifor chinadaily.com.cn A view of railway staff in masks in Wuhan Railway Station in Wuhan on the morning of April , . Photo by Ke Haofor chinadaily.com.cn An aerial photo shows vehicles waiting to leave Wuhan on April , . Photo by Ke Haofor chinadaily.com.cn An aerial photo shows vehicles lined up to leave Wuhan on April , . Photo by Ke Haofor chinadaily.com.cn A photo shows a view of Wuhan West Toll Station before midnight on April , . Photo by Li Ziyunfor chinadaily.com.cn A smiling passenger waves from a car leaving Wuhan on April , . Photo by Ke Haofor chinadaily.com.cn Passengers at Wuchang Railway Station enter the station in Wuhan, Central Chinas Hubei province, on April , . Photo by Zhang Zhengfor chinadaily.com.cn A railway police officer guides passengers to enter Wuchang Railway Station in Wuhan on the morning of April , . Photo by Zhang Zhengfor chinadaily.com.cn Passengers wait in an orderly fashion to board a train at Wuchang Railway Station in Wuhan on the morning of April , . Photo by Zhang Zhengfor chinadaily.com.cn Passengers are seen on the K train at Wuchang Railway Station in Wuhan, Central Chinas Hubei province, on April , . Photo by Cheng Yingfor chinadaily.com.cn Passengers wave goodbye to their family at Wuhan Tianhe International Airport on April , . Photo by Wang Jingchinadaily.com.cn