CRCC signs contract for two office buildings in central Moscow
2020/4/8 9:38
? A pedestrian wearing a face mask walks past a shop window with the stayhome slogan as the spread of the coronavirus disease COVID continues in Dresden, Germany, March , .  Europe is being hit with a onetwo punch as forecasters paint a picture of economies sliding into recession on the novel coronavirusravaged continent. The eurozone and the European Union will likely see contractions of between  and  percent in gross domestic product in , and global GDP will slump by between . and  percent, the Federation of German Industries predicted on Monday. The novel coronavirus is raging across Europe, which has reported , infections and , as of Tuesday, the European Center for Disease Prevention and Control said. On Monday, German Chancellor Angela Merkel warned that the EU is facing the biggest test since its foundation and that all countries are equally affected. The German government approved more financial support for small and mediumsized enterprises, or SMEs, and introduced comprehensive immediate loans in response to the crisis, the Federal Ministry for Economic Affairs and Energy announced on Monday. SMEs could obtain loans of up to , euros , without risk assessment and with a  percent state guarantee. Germanys confirmed number of coronavirus infections on Tuesday rose by , over the previous day to ,, snapping a run of four consecutive days of declines, data from the Robert Koch Institute for infectious diseases showed. The reported death toll increased by  to ,. In Italy, the worsthit country, the coronavirus has claimed , lives and infected , people, according to data from the countrys Civil Protection Department on Monday. Italys government approved on Monday an emergency decree that will offer more than  billion euros worth of liquidity and bank loans to companies hit by the pandemic. This is real firepower. I cannot remember such powerful measures being introduced in the history of our republic to help with the financing of our businesses, Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte said after a Cabinet meeting. France on Monday reported  more coronavirus deaths, bringing the total to ,, while infectionsboth confirmed in hospitals and confirmed or possible cases from nursing homesjumped to ,, Health Minister Olivier Veran said. Veran warned that the epidemic is not over. In Russia, clinical trials of medicines to treat the coronavirus began on Monday, said Veronika Skvortsova, chief of the Federal Medical Biological Agency. That day the country granted registration to the first express test for coronavirus infection. It was developed by a Russian company and is said to give results within an hour. Chen Yingqun in Beijing, Ren Qi in Moscow, Xinhua and agencies contributed to this story.