Travel industry starting to show signs of recovery
2020/4/8 8:57
British government admits . million antibody tests it ordered unreliable Britains Prime Minister Boris Johnson is seen in a screen grab from his Twitter video update, amid the coronavirus disease COVID outbreak in London, Britain April , . British Prime Minister Boris Johnson is breathing without a ventilator and has not been diagnosed with pneumonia, Downing Street has said. Dominic Raab, the foreign secretary, took the nations reins on Monday evening after Johnsons COVID symptoms worsened and he was taken to an intensive care unit. The Times newspaper said one unnamed government minister described Johnsons rapid deterioration as truly shocking. Downing Street said Raab, as first secretary of state, would stand in where necessary. In Tuesdays news briefing, Raab said the prime ministers illness has been a shock to those in Cabinet, adding, He is not just a prime minister, not just our boss, but also a colleague and also our friend. He added Im confident hell pull through because if theres one thing I know about this prime minister, hes a fighter. Secretary of State for Foreign affairs Dominic Raab on Downing Street after British Prime Minister Boris Johnson was moved to intensive care after his coronavirus COVID symptoms worsened and Raab was asked to deputise, London, Britain, April , .  He said Johnson is receiving the very best care from the excellent medical team and remained stable overnight. He added that the Cabinet will not blink or flinch from the task at hand. The yearold Johnson received messages of support from world leaders, including United States President Donald Trump and French President Emmanuel Macron. Trump, who described Johnson as a good friend, said people in the US are all praying for his recovery. Macron said he and his nation are sending their support to Boris Johnson, to his family and to the British people at this difficult moment. Doctors in the United Kingdom continue to voice serious concerns about a lack of personal protective equipment, or PPE, with some calling the current provision useless, the British Medical Association has warned. In a BMA survey of almost , health workers, more than two thirds of doctors percentsaid they did not feel protected from novel coronavirus. One hospital doctor said The quality of our eye protection and apron is useless. Some of the PPE provided feels like a tickbox exercise just for psychological reassurance. The total number of people in UK hospitals who have died with coronavirus has now reached ,, with  new fatalities recorded overnight, its largest daily death toll increase. The Financial Times has seen a leaked memo that indicates London hospitals are now also running short of vital equipment in intensive care wards, including blood dialysis machines needed to treat patients suffering from novel coronavirusrelated kidney failure. The shortages, in addition to concerns about the lack of ventilators, emerged from a conference call of some  senior National Health Service doctors. Police officers patrol outside St Thomas Hospital in London on Tuesday after British Prime Minister Boris Johnson was moved to its intensive care unit due to his worsening COVID symptoms. HENRY NICHOLLSREUTERS Despite this, the UK is studying the experience of China and Italy as it considers how the nation could emerge from its coronavirus lockdown situation, the Financial Times reported. The newspaper quoted a government official who said Well be looking out for a possible second wave of the virus, but if Italy and China can do it, it will help us find a way out of the lockdown. It is believed a mixture of technology and testing could allow for a phased lifting of the restrictions over the summer. The leaders of Norway, Denmark, The Czech Republic and Austria have already announced plans to relax coronavirus lockdown restrictions. Schools are set to reopen in Denmark on April  in what will be the first steps the country is taking to ease its quarantine rules, while Norway will do so five days later. Raab has declined to outline the UKs lockdown exit strategy, saying the priority remained on bringing down the number of infections and getting past the peak. But any new policy would depend on the availability of quality testing, and the UK government has admitted it will not be able to use any of the . million antibody tests it ordered, after researchers deemed them unreliable. Multiple tests have not performed well, said John Bell, a professor of medicine at Oxford University and adviser to the government on life sciences. Bell said that the antibody tests are not reliable when used on any patients who do not qualify as severely ill, which is most people being tested. We see many false negatives tests where no antibody is detected despite the fact we know it is there and we also see false positives. None of the tests we have validated would meet the criteria for a good test as agreed with the Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency, he said. British officials said on March  that they had ordered more than four million of these tests, which they said could have been made available online and at pharmacies. A provisional order of the kits was placed with nine companies, including some in the UK, the Daily Telegraph said. But Bell said none were reliable enough to roll out. We clearly want to avoid telling people they are immune when they are not, and we want all people who are immune to know accurately so they can get back to work, Bell said. UK officials were hoping to quickly increase testing, which lags behind other countries in Europe. Spain, the Czech Republic and Slovakia have reported similar failures with rapidtests. The UK will cancel orders and recover the costs where possible, said a spokesman for the prime ministers office. The governments chief medical adviser, Chris Whitty, said on Monday he is confident that a successful test would eventually be developed. British pharmaceutical giant GlaxoSmithKline said it has teamed up with a biotech company in the US to develop potential vaccines and treatments for the virus. Glaxo said it would collaborate with San Franciscobased Vir Biotechnology and invest more than  million pounds  million in the US company. The pair said they would initially focus on speeding up development of Virs two antibody drugs, which could be used to treat patients with COVID. It is hoped clinical trials could begin within three to five months. Meanwhile, in France, the Paris authorities have banned daytime jogging in a bid to reduce contact between people and help slow the spread of the virus. Paris has seen a surge of cases of the virus in the last week, with no sign yet of the wave having peaked. A number of French cities, including Nice, have announced they plan to make face masks mandatory for those who go out. Italy remains the worst affected country, with , deaths so far, followed by Spain, where the death toll is ,. Deaths in Spain increased slightly on Tuesday for the first time in five days, with  people succumbing overnight. Elsewhere, WhatsApp has put heavy restrictions on forwarded messages to try to stop the spread of novel coronavirus misinformation. From Tuesday, messages that WhatsApp thinks are frequently forwarded can only be forwarded to one chat at a time.