Small enterprises eye big steps for smooth business operations
2020/4/8 7:04
Highspeed trains await the resumption of operations in Wuhan, Hubei province, on Monday. The day lockdown of the city ends on Wednesday. ZHAO JUNFOR CHINA DAILY Peoples lives, safety, health prioritized in war on COVID Ending the lockdown of Wuhan, Hubei province, on Wednesday will become a milestone for China in securing final victory in the peoples war against the COVID outbreak under the command of President Xi Jinping, observers said. The decisive measures that the Communist Party of China Central Committeewith Xi as its general secretaryhave taken to help Wuhan fight the epidemic held the key to curbing the spread of the novel coronavirus in what was the hardesthit city, as well as in the province and in the entire country, they said. A constant theme has been people first in the fight against the contagion as Xi has stressed putting peoples lives, safety and health as the top priority and placing the peoples interests above everything else. In his meeting with World Health Organization DirectorGeneral Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus on Jan  in Beijing, Xi said peoples safety and their health always come first. Recounting his experience of leading World Health Organization experts on a nineday joint mission investigating COVID in China, Canadian epidemiologist Bruce Aylward commended Chinas approaches in responding to the disease. If I had COVID, Id want to be treated in China, he said. They know and they care about keeping people alive, and they do it successfully. While masterminding the epidemic prevention and control efforts, Xi gave Hubei, particularly Wuhan, the provincial capital, priority. He said that when Wuhan wins, Hubei wins when Hubei wins, China wins. Therefore, since the start of the outbreak, the CPC Central Committee has taken the most comprehensive, thorough and rigorous measures to resolutely curb the spread of the virus in Wuhan and Hubei. As experts recommended quarantine measures to help reduce population movement, which in turn helped to stem the spread of the virus, the CPC Central Committee made the decision on Jan  to ask Hubei to stop outbound travel to prevent the disease from spreading in other regions. Xi said at a meeting in February that making such a decision demands tremendous political courage, but time calls for resolute action, otherwise, we would be in trouble. On Jan , the authorities in Wuhan announced the lockdown of the city. All public transportation and businesses were suspended, and residents were required to stay indoors to cut transmission in neighborhoods. Putting such a huge city with over  million residents under quarantine was unprecedented but has proved to be effective. During his visit to Wuhan on March , Xi said all prevention and control measures adopted by the CPC Central Committee focus on preventing more people from being infected and are aimed at saving more patients lives. An employee instructs vehicles to leave Wuhan on April , . Photo by Chen LiangChinadaily.com.cn Under Xis command, a central leading group on epidemic response headed by Premier Li Keqiang was established on Jan . Two days later, a central group led by VicePremier Sun Chunlan was sent to oversee work in Hubei and has been stationed there ever since. In early February, the Party secretaries of Hubei and Wuhan were replaced in light of the problems exposed in the initial response to the outbreak. Epidemic response was on the agenda of a series of Party leadership meetings Xi has presided over since early January, including eight meetings of the Standing Committee of the Political Bureau of the CPC Central Committee. At the meetings, he frequently underlined the importance of adopting the approach of early detection, reporting, isolation and treatment in epidemic control, and urged redoubled efforts to improve the admission and recovery rates and to reduce the infection and mortality rates. Helal Helal, deputy general secretary of the Arab Baath Socialist Party of Syria, said that the great achievements China has made in the fight against the outbreak speak volumes about the peoplecentered philosophy embedded in traditional Chinese culture. In a message to the recent Asian Political Parties Online Conference, the Syrian party official said what China has done constitutes a great contribution to maintaining a life with dignity for all humanity. To leave no COVID patient unattended, Wuhan built two hospitalsHuoshenshan and Leishenshanliterally from scratch in about two weeks. Each had more than , beds. It also established  makeshift hospitals converted from sports stadiums and exhibition halls. A man stands at the Hankou Railway Station in Wuhan on April , .?Photo by Chen ZhuoChinadaily.com.cn Chen Weiguo, president of the Stateowned China Construction Third Engineering Bureau Co, said building the hospitals in such a short time sounded like a mission impossible, but his company created a miracle. More than , employees from around China worked around the clock, and they raced against time to build the hospitals in order to get more patients treated, Chen said. Over  medical teams consisting of over , medical workers from across the country, rushed to the hardesthit city at the call of the central government. That number included at least , medical staff from the Peoples Liberation Army. Wang Xinghuan, president of Leishenshan Hospital, said , medical workers from  hospitals from across the country gathered in the medical facility to help treat the critically ill patients. We all have the same goal, saving more lives and helping more patients recover from the illness, Wang said, adding more than , volunteers and a great number of Stateowned and private companies offered their services to ensure the hospital operated well. Nineteen provinces formed partnerships with  cities and counties in Hubei to help them where medical resources were overstretched, a usual practice China follows in mobilizing nationwide resources for disaster relief. When Xi flew to Wuhan on an inspection tour on March , he expressed his respect for medical workers, military officers and soldiers, community workers, police officers, officials, volunteers and people from all walks of life who have been fighting the epidemic on the front line. He expressed sympathy to patients and their relatives, as well as the families of those who died of the disease and those who died on duty. While stressing that medical treatment should be given the top priority to improve the recovery rate and reduce mortality to the greatest extent through scientific and targeted treatment, he demanded more understanding and tolerance for people in Hubei and Wuhan if some vented their frustrations after being under selfquarantine for a long time, as well as efforts to ensure the supply of their life necessities. Chen Feng, a yearold resident of Songtaoyuan community in Wuhans Wuchang district, said he appreciated Xis personal care for peoples sufferings as well as his strong leadership in the peoples war on the epidemic. President Xis visit to Wuhan took place at a critical time in the fight against the virus. His visit boosted our confidence in securing victory, Chen said. Thanks to the stringent prevention and control measures, the situation in Wuhan keeps improving. Ma Xiaowei, minister of the National Health Commission, said at a news conference on March  that the domestic spread of the virus, with Wuhan being the main battlefield, has been basically blocked and epidemic control efforts have produced significant results. Zhang Wenhong, director of the infectious disease department of Shanghai Huashan Hospital, told China Central Television that it is an unprecedented, remarkable achievement that a country can contain the pandemic in around two to four months. All the nation, people and medical workers have done their utmost to curb the epidemic, Zhang said. The risk of imported infections remains high, so vigilance is still highly needed to prevent the disease from going viral again, he said, adding that he is confident the country will fully win the battle against the virus. Vehicles leave Wuhan in order at Gongjialing Toll Station on April , .?Photo by Chen LiangChinadaily.com.cn Passengers wait in a queue to enter Hankou Railway Station in Wuhan on April , .?Photo by Chen ZhuoChinadaily.com.cn Railway police officers are seen at the Hankou Railway Station in Wuhan on April , .?Photo by Chen ZhuoChinadaily.com.cn A view of railway staff in masks in Wuhan Railway Station in Wuhan on the morning of April , . Photo by Ke Haofor chinadaily.com.cn An aerial photo shows vehicles waiting to leave Wuhan on April , . Photo by Ke Haofor chinadaily.com.cn Passengers wait to enter Wuhan Railway Station in Wuhan on the morning of April , . Photo by Ke Haofor chinadaily.com.cn On the morning of April , passengers at Wuhan Railway Station enter the station after their temperature is taken. Photo by Ke Haofor chinadaily.com.cn A smiling passenger waves from a car leaving Wuhan on April , . Photo by Ke Haofor chinadaily.com.cn Passengers at Wuchang Railway Station enter the station in Wuhan, Central Chinas Hubei province, on April , . Photo by Zhang Zhengfor chinadaily.com.cn A passenger waves goodbye to people on the platform at Wuchang Railway Station in Wuhan, Central Chinas Hubei province, on April , . Photo by Zhang Zhengfor chinadaily.com.cn ?