After the storm comes sunshine
2020/4/8 6:00
The city of Wuhan in Hubei province, Chinas core battlefield against the novel coronavirus, officially lifts its travel restrictions today. Here, we present to you some moments of medics and average citizens that have moved people greatly in the fight against this pathogen. Renowned virologist Zhong Nanshan, , rests during a highspeed rail journey to Wuhan, the hardhit city of novel coronavirus outbreak, Central Chinas Hubei province, on Jan , . Su YuemingFor China Daily A medical worker from the Army Medical University based in Chongqing says goodbye to her family, Jan , , before heading to Wuhan to fight the pneumonia caused by the new coronavirus there. The first batch of military medics left for Wuhan on the eve of Chinese Spring Festival. Photo provided to chinadaily.com.cn Zhong Hao left works at the construction site of Huoshenshan Hospital in Wuhan, Hubei province. The Huoshenshan Hospital, specializing in novel coronavirus treatment, completes construction within merely  days in Wuhan on Feb . His wife, Hu Jie, worked at the construction site for Leishenshan Hospital, another instant infirmary in the city.  DAILY Medical workers gesture to each other through the window in Zhangzhou Municipal Hospital in Zhangzhou, Fujian province, on Feb , .  Chen Ying, a nurse at the Forth Affiliated Hospital of Zhejiang University School of Medicine, kissed her boyfriend between a window after working consecutive  days, on Feb , . She finally married her fianc Huang Qianrui, in Yiwu, East Chinas Zhejiang province, on March , .  News A picture on Feb , , showing a young man reading Francis Fukuyamas The Origins of Political Order while resting at the Jianghan cabin hospital received widespread praise on social media platforms, with netizens nicknaming him calm man and reading man. Photo by Yuan Zhengfor chinadaily.com.cn Temporary mothers Zhang Xiaoyan L and Wang Simei feed the monthold child Zhao Rui pseudonym, a patient of novel coronavirus, at an isolation area in Yingjiang district of Anqing city, Anhui province, on Feb , .  Medical worker Cao Shan takes off her mask after a days work on Feb , . Photo by Chen Zhuochinadaily.com.cn Medical worker Yi Qin teaches as patients follow during a traditional Chinese physical exercises session at a temporary hospital in Jiangxia district in Wuhan, Hubei province on Feb , .  Feng Feng, a service worker at a residential community in Wuhan, Hubei province, carries bags of medicine he bought for residents at the front of a drugstore, on Feb , . As a service worker of Huiminyuan community, Feng took the responsibility of buying medicine necessary for those with chronic diseases in the community starting from February. The photo has gone viral online. Photo by Zhu Xingxinchinadaily.com.cn Yu Haijing, right, proposes to Zhou Lingyi, left, at the Leishenshan Hospital in Wuhan on Feb , . Photo by Zhu Xingxinchinadaily.com.cn Ni Xiaohui overlooks the makeshift hospital he and  colleagues from Nantong, Jiangsu province, work at in Wuhan, Hubei province, on March , . Photo by WANG JINGCHINA DAILY An yearold COVID patient and his doctor, Liu Kai, watch the sunset on their way back from a CT scan on March , , at Renmin Hospital of Wuhan University in Hubei province. GAN JUNCHAO  FOR CHINA DAILY A screenshot of the official Weibo account of Argentinas national football team on March , , shows that After hearing your wish, we are going to send you a No  Messi jersey. Our staff will try to get in touch with you and we hope your son can have a brighter future after wearing his idols shirt! Wu Yu, a nurse from Xiangya Hospital in Central Chinas Hunan province who has been working in Wuhan, made a special wish on Womens Dayshe hoped Argentine soccer superstar Lionel Messi would send her son a jersey to encourage the boy to become a member of the national youth training team. Screenshot A ceremony is held to celebrate the closing of Wuchang makeshift hospital on March , . Photo by Wang Jingchinadaily.com.cn Medical workers dance together to celebrate the closing of the Jianghan Makeshift Hospital in Central Chinas Wuhan on March , . Photo by Chen Liangchinadaily.com.cn A yearold woman is discharged from the hospital in Wuhan,?Hubei?province on March , , to mark the oldest cured novel coronavirus patient in the province that has been the epicenter of the outbreak in China.  TV Medical workers are the frontline heroes of the countrys battle against the novel coronavirus outbreak in Wuhan, Hubei province. In the isolation wards, doctors and nurses not only treated, but also forged strong bonds with their patients. Photographer Li Ge asked medical workers from around the country who were in Wuhan to show images on their mobile phones of some of the patients they cared for, which he captured in this series. Photo by Li Gechinadaily.com.cn A member of the national emergency medical rescue team from Tianjin gestures before leaving Wuhan, Hubei province, on March , . Over , medical workers from around China are leaving Hubei after the epidemic was basically brought under control in the province.  Medical experts to Italy prepare to board a plane in Fuzhou, Fujian province on March , . A team of  medical experts from eastern Chinas Fujian province departed on a chartered flight to Italy to aid the European countrys fight against the COVID outbreak. Previously, China had sent two medical groups with a total of  people along with more than  tonnes of medical supplies to support Italys epidemic fight. 