China and Pakistan to tackle terrorism
2021/7/28 12:07
People wear masks around Times Square, as cases of the infectious coronavirus Delta variant continue to rise in New York City, New York, US, July , .  How are you doing, America? According to a recent national poll, not that good, as  percent in the survey said they were pessimistic over where the country is headed. The response is a nearly point decline in optimism from late April, the last time the question was asked, when  percent reported feeling positive. The rise in pessimism is occurring across all age groups, income and educational levels, and political party affiliation, according to the ABC NewsIpsos poll, whose findings were released on Sunday. Americans also have mixed feelings about how President Joe Biden is handling major issues, the poll found. They are positive about his response to the COVID pandemic  percent  percent approve of the presidents handling of the troop withdrawal in Afghanistan and  percent are upbeat on the economic recovery. Biden, a Democrat, fares less well on immigration, gun violence and crime. On those issues, fewer than half of independents approve of the job hes doing, but his approval among Democrats also has slipped. Bidens positive numbers on some issues were driven by strong support among Democrats  percent or more and support among half or more of independents. Still, the presidents approval rating on handling the pandemic is now nine percentage points lower than at the end of March his standing on the economic recovery is seven points lower over the same period. On the pandemic, as of Friday, according to US Health and Human Services data obtained by ABC News, the daily coronavirus newinfection rate was  percent compared with the prior week, and on July , the nation recorded its highest daily number of new cases since April, with ,. Slightly more than a third of Americans approve of the way the president is handling crime  percent, immigration and the situation at the USMexico border  percent, and gun violence  percent. Unauthorized crossings are up across the Southwest border, from California to Texas. The US Border Patrol reported more than  million apprehensions or encounters in the first nine months of fiscal , compared with , during the same period in . Between July  and , there were at least  shootings across the US, in which at least  people were killed and more than , injured, according to an ABC News analysis of data from the Gun Violence Archive. Last week, someone was shot at every  minutes. In , there were more than , gunrelated deaths, from all causes, including suicides, accidents and selfdefense. So far this year, there have been , gunrelated deaths as of Tuesday, according to the Gun Violence Archive. In a CBS News study of  major cities, homicides rose by  percent in the first quarter of  over  and by  percent from that time in . Through June this year, homicides were up  percent in Los Angeles, nearly  percent in New York, and  percent in Washington DC. While Democrats approve of Bidens handling of crime, immigration and the border, their approval is more muted compared with COVID, the economy and Afghanistan. For example,  percent of Democrats approve of Bidens handling of the pandemic, compared with  percent who rate him positively on immigrationthe border situation. On crime, immigration and the border, just above  in  independents approve of the job Biden is doing, while he receives positive marks from around  in . Though most Democrats  percent still feel optimistic about the year to come, fewer are feeling positive than they did in late April  percent. Optimism among independents has declined by  percentage points now  percent, from  percent. At the same time, there is a nearly even split on whether Biden is doing a good job keeping his campaign promises  percent excellentgood, or not  percent not so goodpoor. The split contains a wide partisan gap  percent of Democrats say Biden is doing an excellent or good job keeping his promises just as many Republicans  percent say he is not. The online poll of  people age  and older was conducted July . The margin of sampling error is plus or minus five percentage points. In another poll, by Gallup, released Friday, Biden had an approval rating of  percent, down from  percent in June and  percent in April. The poll was conducted July  with a sample size of , adults. The margin of error was plus or minus  percentage points. The poll found  percent of Republicans,  percent of Democrats and  percent of independents approved of how Biden was doing, showing extreme party polarization, Gallup researchers wrote. Bidens approval rating is showing the first signs of meaningful decline, the Gallup report said. If the lower ratings persist, it could indicate his honeymoon period is over. Because Republicans have been unlikely to support him from the beginning of his presidency, changes in his approval are likely to come from Democrats and independents evaluations of him. It comes at a time when US progress in fighting the coronavirus has stalled, with vaccination rates slowing and case levels now rising. The economic recovery continues, with unemployment declining and stock market values near record highs. But consumers are paying higher prices for gas and other goods, pollsters wrote. By comparison, in the second quarter of the first year of former president Donald Trumps presidency, his approval rating was . percent, according to Gallup. The highest number since the start of the poll? President John F. Kennedy, with . percent in the second quarter of .