Shenyang launches spring tourism activities
2020/4/7 17:23
Shenyang, capital of Northeast Chinas Liaoning province, has launched a raft of exciting  spring tourism activities, which started on April , according to local reports. They have been jointly organized by the Shenyang culture, tourism, radio and television bureau and the cultural and tourism centers of the capitals districts and counties, officials said. Officials said that due to the outbreak of novel coronavirus epidemic, the culture and tourism sector in Shenyang has been faced with unprecedented challenges and this years spring tourism activities are designed to promote the recovery of growth in the sector. The activities are being promoted online  including guidelines for spring tourism in Shenyang, the most beautiful cycling routes, most beautiful walking routes, most beautiful selfdrive routes and recommended places to enjoy the citys flowers now in bloom. Spring tourism video shorts, photography and other contests will be held during spring, as well as online museum visits and cultural and creative product promotions. In addition, more than  promotional activities for spring tourism in Shenyang are being organized in schools, companies, communities, government bodies and medical institutions, to drive development of the tourism sector. The city also issued the following guide to tourists . Tourists must wear face masks throughout the trip to protect themselves and others. . Each scenic spot in Shenyang has set rules for entering. Visitors to the scenic spot must abide by the rules and scan the QR code for registration before entrance. . Protect the environment when you are in the scenic areas. Do not climb branches, throw away garbage, step on the lawns, or paint on the buildings. . Please queue up when buying tickets and going to the toilet. When playing in the scenic area, keep a distance of . meters from others. . Make reservations in advance to visit cultural venues. . Pay attention to fire prevention and disaster prevention during outdoor activities.