Chinas antivirus measures effective in curbing imported cases official
2020/4/7 14:04
Here are some of the most striking images taken from around the world over the past week. A guard stands at the entrance to the Bronx Zoo on April ,  in New York City. A tiger at the zoo has tested positive for COVID, the Wildlife Conservation Society said in a statement Sunday. The tiger, a yearold named Nadia, had developed a dry cough and a decrease in appetite. Results from a test, which were confirmed by the USDAs National Veterinary Services Laboratory, showed that she had contracted the virus, most likely from a zoo worker.? A worker wearing protective garments sanitizes the Duomo Square, during the coronavirus disease COVID outbreak in central Milan, Italy, March , .  An aerial view shows a construction site of a new infectious hospital as an additional measure to prevent the spread of coronavirus disease COVID on the outskirts of Moscow, Russia, April , .  A firefighter rests outside a temporary hospital in IFEMA conference center, amid the coronavirus disease COVID outbreak, in Madrid, Spain, April , .  The USNS Comfort navy hospital ship is docked at Pier  in New York City as seen from West New York, New Jersey, on April , . According to reports, the military hospital ships , beds, expected to help overcrowded hospitals dealing with the citys COVID outbreak, remain mostly unused.  Police wearing protective face masks are seen in Bangkok, Thailand, April , , as Thailand imposes a nationwide night curfew from April , to try to curb the spread of the coronavirus disease COVID.  A civilian receives relief food during a government distribution exercise to civilians affected by the lockdown, as part of measures to prevent the potential spread of coronavirus disease COVID, in Kampala, Uganda, April , .  Healthcare workers wheel the bodies of deceased people from the Wyckoff Heights Medical Center during the outbreak of the coronavirus disease COVID in the Brooklyn borough of New York City, New York, April , .  A Buckingham Palace handout image of Britains Queen Elizabeth during her address to the nation and the Commonwealth in relation to the coronavirus epidemic COVID, recorded at Windsor Castle, Britain, April , .  The pyramid of Khufu, the largest of the Giza pyramid complex, is illuminated with text encouraging people to stay home, as Egypt ramps up its efforts to slow down the spread of coronavirus disease COVID outbreak, in Giza, on the outskirts of Cairo, Egypt, March , . 