China stands by Iran in difficult days
2020/4/7 11:11
Five experts from the Red Cross Society of China arrives in Teheran, Iran with Chinaaided medical supplies on Feb.  to help the Islamic republic fight against the novel coronavirus epidemic. Photo provided by the Chinese Embassy in Iran The current coronavirus pandemic has been the biggest challenge for the world since WWII. Now we have witnessed an unprecedented and invisible enemy which has locked people down in their homes, and tipped the global and regional economy into recession. It is cause for great concern, particularly for countries with weak health systems in the worlds conflicttorn states and under unilateral sanctions, which would hinder them to fight this pandemic. What is obvious is that global challenges like the coronavirus pandemic require a global response. In this vein, China has taken a giant step to control the outbreak of the virus and collaborate with scientists and research institutions all over the world, and at the same time has donated medical equipment and humanitarian aid to several countries like Iran which are suffering from this pandemic. All countries like Iran realize that the Chinese experience can help fight against the pandemic, so they are looking to China to learn how to cope with this situation. Currently the death toll in Iran stands at more than , people including a number of top government officials. The head of the parliament Ali Larijani and more than  percent of the members of parliament tested positive for COVID. In the Middle East, Iran has become the epicenter of the outbreak, and home to one of the highest mortality rates worldwide. The coronavirus is already reshaping socioeconomic life in Iran. Like other countries in the world, Iran follows in Chinas footsteps to deal with this situation  the Chinese model of quarantine. Limiting public gatherings, closing universities and schools, restricting travel and shutting down nonessential businesses are some measures that have been taken by the Iranian government. But some limitations such as unilateral sanctions by the US and scarcity of resources have prevented Iran from effectively dealing with this pandemic. Despite these problems, China has not left the Iranians alone in this time of difficulty, once again proving that Iran and China have an eternal friendship and spirit of cooperation that remains strong. Since the emergence of COVID in Iran, China immediately expressed its solidarity with Iran by offering various medical donations. The Chinese president and government sent several messages of sympathy to the Iranian people. Up until now more than  special planes from China have carried humanitarian aid and medical supplies to help Iranians contain the transmission of COVID, which has spread across all provinces of Iran. The Chinese assistance to Iran so far includes packages of coronavirus diagnostic test kits, oxygen generators and medical ventilators, body temperature monitors, hospital disinfectant machines, face masks, gowns and detergent. Moreover, China sent a team of Chinese medical experts to Tehran to share their experience and assist Iran in battling against the coronavirus outbreak. The fight against the virus amid international isolation and economic difficulties would not prevent Iranians from combating the pandemic. Iran seeks to mobilize all existing capacities in the country to pass through the current situation. Thanks to the determined efforts and the great dedication of Iranian medical staff and doctors who are called in Iran defenders of health, Iran can contain the coronavirus outbreak. At this critical time, all countries should get together and take stringent measures to tackle COVID. Now all the people in the world seek to create a healthy community which could not be achieved without joint efforts and collaboration. This spirit of cooperation is also echoed in President Xis previous historic speech, that all countries should work together to build a community of shared future for humankind. The Iranian people and government are deeply grateful to President Xi Jinping, the government of China and people of China for their unflagging and generous support. Their assistance at this crucial moment means a lot to Iran. Behzad Abdollahpour is a freelance writer from Iran. He is a postgraduate student in the Faculty of World Studies, University of Tehran. The opinions expressed here are those of the writer and do not represent the views of China Daily and China Daily website.