London plans to target COVID conspiracies
2020/4/7 10:20
A bus driver wears a face mask, as the spread of the coronavirus disease COVID continues, in London, Britain, April , .  The United Kingdoms digital secretary will hold a meeting with the heads of major technology companies this week to combat misinformation surrounding novel coronavirus, after unfounded claims spread by conspiracy theorists resulted in attacks on G towers. Oliver Dowden, who is secretary of state for digital, culture, media and sport, will encourage the companies to take measures to prevent false and potentially dangerous information spreading online, according to a report published in The Telegraph newspaper. UK mobile operator Vodafone has confirmed that there were attacks on four G towers in Britain over the weekend. The vandalism is linked to unsubstantiated claims that radio waves emitted by G infrastructure can suppress the immune system and that the technology is therefore compounding the COVID outbreak. We are aware of inaccurate information being shared online about G, the Department for Digital, Culture, Media and Sport wrote on Twitter. There is absolutely no credible evidence of a link between G and coronavirus. Vodafone Chief Executive Nick Jeffrey told The Telegraph that the police and counterterrorism authorities have launched an investigation into the attacks. In an opinion piece published in The Times newspaper last week, Dowden warned of the spread of fake news, hoax theories and pseudoscience online. Our counterdisinformation unit has seen completely unfounded posts shared on social media, Dowden said. Were working around the clock with Whitehall departments, the social media platforms, and disinformation specialists in academia to build up a full picture of inaccurate news stories and posts circulating online. Some media outlets in the UK have quoted Tanja Rebel, an activist who has led antiG protests in Britain, claiming that electromagnetic radiation from G suppresses the immune system and helps viruses and bacteria thrive. Rebel recently shared an online petition to suspend G in the UK, which has gathered more than , signatures. Kate Lewis of Full Fact, a UK factchecking charity, said a second theorythat viruses communicate via radio waveshas also been widely shared. Neither of these theories is backedup by evidence, Lewis said. The new coronavirus is also affecting countries and regions where no G is present. Like the previous generations of wireless network technology, including G, G, and G, G mobile data is transmitted over radio waves, Lewis explained. To improve speed and capacity, G uses a higher frequency of radio waves compared to older generations. The frequency of this new wireless technology remains very low, said Lewis. The maximum levels of electromagnetic radiation measured by UK communications regulator Ofcom were about  times smaller than the safety limits set by international guidelines. Public Health England stated in October that there should be no consequences for public health associated with G.