Community linked by rivers and mountains
2020/4/7 8:27
LI MINCHINA DAILY Chinese and Lao people are helping each other in their race against time with the virus On March , a member team of Chinese antiepidemic medical experts arrived in Vientiane, capital of Laos, on a chartered China Eastern Airlines flight from Kunming, Yunnan province, along with . million yuan , worth of medical supplies. It had been less than five days after Laos announced the first confirmed COVID case and asked for Chinas assistance. The Chinese speed set a record. It fully implemented the requirement of President Xi Jinping to race against time and battle against the virus and fully represented the spirit of community with a shared future for mankind. A friend in need is a friend indeed. We will never forget that after the outbreak in China, President Boungnang Vorachith immediately sent a message of condolence to President Xi, and Premier Thongloun Sisoulith sent a message of condolence to Premier Li Keqiang. They spoke highly of Chinas comprehensive and timely prevention and control of the epidemic, which has protected the lives of the Chinese people and people around the world. They said the Lao people are ready to support each other and overcome difficulties together with the Chinese people. We firmly believe that the Chinese people will surely overcome the epidemic and achieve the first centenary goal of realizing a moderately prosperous society in all aspects on schedule. The strong wind tests the vitality of the grass. We will never forget that at the height of Chinas struggle against the epidemic, Laos, a country with a population of less than  million and an economy of less than  billion, donated , in cash and several batches of epidemic prevention supplies. At the Vientiane fundraising gathering, the Lao people from all walks of life, as well as overseas Chinese, raised their arms and shouted Go China! Come on, Wuhan! A young Laotian singers rendition of I Believe Love Will Win once topped the hit list of antiepidemic charity songs, with Chinese netizens saying I must go to this beautiful and kind country after the epidemic. Fire is the best judge of gold. We will never forget that in just over  days, Laos actively responded to Chinas initiative, made every effort to prepare for and successfully hosted the ChinaASEAN Special Foreign Ministers Meeting on COVID and the LancangMekong Cooperation Foreign Ministers Meeting, which sent the most powerful message for regional countries to join hands in fighting the epidemic and demonstrated Laos commitment to regional cooperation. It is this responsibility that embodies the vision of a LancangMekong community with a shared future and sets a benchmark for countries in the region to deepen mutually beneficial cooperation and safeguard peoples health. When the heart is in harmony, even the mountain can be moved. We are heartened that, in China important progress has been made in the prevention and control of the epidemic, and economic and social order is being restored at a faster pace. But worryingly, the epidemic outside China is spreading at an accelerating pace. The number of confirmed cases in many countries continues to rise, so does it in Laos. As a community with a shared future, people in China and Laos have worked hand in hand to tide over the difficulties. We are demonstrating the ChinaLaos spirit of community with a shared future in the fight against the epidemic. Before the arrival of the expert group, the Chinese government had aided Laos with , sets of protective clothing, , N masks, , general surgical masks and , testing kits. The Jack Ma Foundation provided , detection reagent kits. Local governments such as the Yunnan and Hunan provinces, together with ChinaAsia Economic Development Association, the alliance of Chinese and foreign entrepreneurs and other social groups donated enthusiastically. Now the expert group is not only bringing another batch of relief goods, but also injecting Chinese experience and expertise into the prevention and control of the epidemic in Laos. We firmly believe that the building of a ChinaLaos community with a shared future will be more solid after this public health crisis. The strengths of the socialist system have been demonstrated in the epidemic prevention and control in China. Under the leadership of President Xi, the CPC Central Committee directed the country in its prevention and control efforts, and Party organizations at all levels gave full play to their role as battlingbastions. Under the leadership of the Central Committee of the Lao Peoples Revolutionary Party headed by General Secretary Boungnang, the Lao people have started their fight against the epidemic. We firmly believe that Laos will interpret the peoplecentered governance concept and fully demonstrate the huge advantages of the socialist system in the struggle against the virus. We will steadily advance bilateral cooperation while strengthening epidemic prevention and control. About  percent of the work on constructing the ChinaLaos railway has been completed, and the track is now being laid. More than half of the VientianeVangvieng expressway has been built, the Saysettha comprehensive development zone is expected to realize an output value of . billion by the end of this year, and the MohanBoten Economic Cooperation Zone will create , jobs. We firmly believe that under the guidance of the Action Plan on Building a Community of Shared Future between China and Laos, our cooperation in various fields will surely overcome the impact of the epidemic and achieve greater development after the storm. Only two days after China informed Laos of the decision to send a team of experts, the team was formed, and the medical materials were collected and sent to Vientiane. Although the virus is heartless, we are linked by mountains and rivers so we can help each other. This is a true portrayal of the ChinaLaos community with a shared future. The author is the Chinese ambassador to Laos. The author contributed this article to China Watch, a think tank powered by China Daily. The views do not necessarily reflect those of China Daily. ?