Chinas medical supplies exports top  bln yuan
2020/4/7 7:47
A medical worker checks a drivers temperature, amid the novel coronavirus outbreak, in Harbin, Northeast Chinas Heilongjiang province, Feb , .  Heilongjiang province reported  new imported confirmed cases of the novel coronavirus on Saturday and Sunday, according to the provincial health commission. All the new imported cases, including four in serious condition, were Chinese citizens returning from Russia. After flying from Moscow to Vladivostok, one of the largest cities in Russias Far East, they entered the Chinese mainland via the highway in the provinces Suifenhe, about  kilometers from Vladivostok. The patients are being treated in a local hospital, and all the passengers on the same flights have been sent to designated quarantine sites. The provincial health commission reported no local residents had close contact with the infected returnees. The province also reported  new imported asymptomatic cases over the weekend. By Sunday, the province had a total of  imported confirmed cases and  imported asymptomatic cases. No new local cases have been reported. Thirtynine of the imported confirmed cases entered Heilongjiang via the highway in Suifenhe. Due to a sudden influx of passengers, the citys capacity for testing and quarantine has been challenged, according to a statement on the city government website. Because of those challenges, a government statement said, the highway port would be closed from Tuesday until April . Suifenhe is a countylevel city with a population of less than ,, an anonymous local official was quoted by China Business Network as saying. We dont have enough hotels to provide for the passengers quarantine. Medical aid teams from nearby regions have been organized, and some have arrived in the city, according to Suifenhe Daily on Sunday. A member team from Mudanjiang Hongqi Hospital arrived at Suifenhe Peoples Hospital on Sunday evening. Without having a rest, the medical workers immediately began familiarizing themselves with the hospital and the work flow. The hospital sent experts from the departments of pneumology, ICU infections and pediatrics, Sun Tao, director of Hongqi Hospitals executive office, told Suifenhe Daily. We also brought medical supplies valued at , yuan ,, including protective suits, N masks and sterilizing equipment.