imported cases reported in Heilongjiang
2020/4/7 2:18
 The World Health Organization, or WHO, on Monday warned that medical masks should be prioritized for health workers as countries consider measures to protect their mass population from COVID. The United States Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, or CDC, revised its guidance last week, saying that it recommends wearing cloth face covering in public settings where other social distancing measures are difficult to maintain, especially in areas of significant communitybased COVID transmission. The US is the latest epicenter of the novel coronavirus outbreak. By pm CEST Monday there were , confirmed cases in the US, according to the John Hopkins University Coronavirus Resource Center. Austria, the Czech Republic and several other countries have made wearing a mask compulsory in supermarkets and some other public places. WHO DirectorGeneral Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said he understands that some countries have recommended or are considering the use of both medical and nonmedical masks in the general population to prevent the spread of COVID. First and foremost, medical masks should be prioritized for health workers on the front lines of the response, he told a virtual media conference from Geneva. We know medical masks can help to protect health workers, but theyre in short supply globally. Tedros expressed concern that the mass use of medical masks by the general population could exacerbate the shortage of specialized masks for those who need them most. In some places, these shortages are putting health workers in real danger, he said. The WHO continues to recommend the use of medical masks, respirators and other personal protective equipment for health workers in medical facilities as well as the use of medical masks by people who are sick, and those who are caring for a sick person at home. Tedros said that the WHO has been evaluating the wider use of medical and nonmedical masks for COVID, adding that there is limited research in this area. On Monday, the WHO issued guidance and criteria to support countries in making that decision. Tedros cautioned that masks should only ever be used as part of a comprehensive package of interventions. Masks alone cannot stop the pandemic, he said. Countries must continue to find, test, isolate and treat every case and trace every contact. On Monday, the European Union announced that a Chinese plane had arrived in Rome with a donation of  million surgical masks, , N masks and , testing kits for Italy. We are grateful for Chinas support and, as President von der Leyen stated, we need each others support in times of need, said Janez Lenarcic, European Commissioner for Crisis Management. The EU and China have been working together since the beginning of the coronavirus outbreak. In February, the EU donated  tons of medical supplies to China when the country was at the height of the COVID outbreak. China is one of the worlds leading medical protective equipment manufacturers. According to Chinese customs official on Sunday, the country has exported . billion masks, . million pieces of protective clothing, , ventilators and . million COVID testing kits to more than  countries since March . Tedros revealed on Monday that more than  countries have joined WHOs solidarity trial, to accelerate the search for an effective treatment, and that around  institutions and companies are racing to develop a vaccine. WHO is committed to ensuring that as medicines and vaccines are developed, they are shared equitably with all countries and people, he added.