Iran watches economy in virus battle
2020/4/7 0:00
TEHERANIranian President Hassan Rouhani said late on Sunday that public health is the first priority of the country, but employment, production and business should also be taken into account. And he said that the existing restrictions to curb the COVID spread would be eased gradually in the weeks to come. Iranian Foreign Ministry spokesman Abbas Mousavi on Sunday hailed Chinas efforts to help Iran and other countries, and said Chinas bravery, dedication and professionalism in COVID containment deserve acknowledgment. China has so far sent  planeloads of aid to Iran, said Irans Ambassador to China Mohammad Keshavarzzadeh. As of Monday, the death toll in Iran was ,, and the country had a total of , infections. In Lebanon, President Michel Aoun has appealed for the international community to help the country as it endures its worst economic and financial crisis in decades, made worse in recent weeks by the novel coronavirus. Aoun said in a speech on Monday in front of ambassadors of the International Support Group for Lebanon which includes the UN, US, China, France, Germany, Italy, Russia, UK, EU and the Arab League, that Beirut was getting ready to launch work to revive the economy when coronavirus hit the world. Lebanon had reported  cases and  deaths by Monday. Turkey said on Sunday that it would minimize its troop movements in operation zones in neighboring Syria as the Turkish death toll rose to  and infections to ,, making it the second hardesthit country in the Middle East. Separately, Israel launched a  million grant program for  coronavirus research teams, with the aim of slowing down the pandemic and generating a better understanding of the disease, as the tally of infections in the country rose to ,, with  deaths, on Sunday. Israels Ministry of Defense and the Israeli airline El Al announced a joint operation to fly medical equipment, including surgical masks, medical staff protective suits and respirators, from China. Toughened penalties South Korea reported fewer than  new cases for the first time since its peak at the end of February. There were  new infections on Sunday, taking its total to ,. Also, the government on Saturday extended its intensive social distancing campaign by two weeks. Starting on Sunday, the government toughened penalties for those who violate selfquarantine rules, with fines up to , or one year in prison. In Australia, Carnival Corps troubled Ruby Princess cruise liner, the biggest single source of coronavirus infections in the country, docked south of Sydney on Monday to get help for sick crew members requiring urgent medical treatment. The cruise ship has more than , crew still on board after passengers disembarked in midMarch without health checks. In Africa, South Sudan announced its first case, making it the st of Africas  countries to report the disease. As a result, President Salva Kiir imposed a curfew for six weeks and closed borders, airports, schools, churches and mosques. Algeria on Sunday received its first order of medical equipment worth . million from China to combat COVID, which has killed  and infected ,. Algerian Prime Minister Abdelaziz Djerad said the second order will be delivered by China in the coming weeks, adding that Algeria will make every effort to stop this pandemic. In South Africa, the authorities rolled out massive community testing, which covered over , people as of Sunday. Total infections in the country were up to , and the death toll was . Xinhua  Agencies A passenger who was stuck in Saudi Arabia waves from a bus after arriving at Rafik Hariri Airport in Beirut, Lebanon, on Sunday. Passengers from abroad are being transferred by buses to hotels where they will be tested for the novel coronavirus. HUSSEIN MALLAASSOCIATED PRESS