Africa takes strict steps to contain COVID
2020/4/7 0:00
In an effort to control the spread of coronavirus that has so far infected , and killed  across Africa, countries have continued to put in place strict measures and policies. South Africa, the hardest hit on the continent with , infected cases and  deaths, has teamed up with Samsung and Telkom South Africa to develop a track and trace database to identify the whereabouts of those who may have contracted the virus. Telkom, in partnership with Samsung, will distribute , handsets to people who have been hired to undertake the track and trace exercise in the provinces hardest hit by the coronavirus, as reported by Reuters. The phones come with a free connection for six months. Telkom has developed the trackandtrace system together with the countrys National Institute for Communicable Diseases and the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research. Stella NdabeniAbrahams, minister of communications, assured the citizens at a news briefing on Thursday that the government respected peoples privacy and that the database will not be used to spy on them. Similar apps have been used in Germany, South Korea, Singapore and Russia. Recently, President Cyril Ramaphosa announced that around , field workers will be visiting homes in villages, towns and cities to screen residents for coronavirus symptoms. The country is on a day nationwide lockdown effective March . Algeria, the second hardest hit country in the continent with , confirmed cases and  deaths, has extended curfew from  pm to  am in the capital Algiers and eight other provinces, and  pm to  am in other places. The country released , prisoners who had  months or less to serve in their sentences, in response to the coronavirus outbreak, an initiative that has also been taken by Kenya, Ethiopia and Morocco. On March , China, through the Stateowned China State Construction Engineering Corporation, donated medical equipment to Algeria worth around , to help fight coronavirus. The first consignment of the donation included , surgical masks, , N masks, , sets of protective clothing as well as other medical supplies and equipment. Algeria has also placed orders with China for  million face masks, , test kits and protective medical clothing, as reported by Middle East Eye, an online news outlet. China is expected to build a small hospital in the country to provide preventive care for about , Algerians and , Chinese employees. Egypt, with , confirmed cases, recently ordered manufacturers to channel protective medical equipment to public hospitals and announced  million in additional funding for its battle against the coronavirus, as reported by Arabic newspaper Asharq AlAwasat. Kenya, which has reported  confirmed cases and four deaths, on Saturday said that people should wear masks in public places, including markets and supermarkets, to combat the spread of coronavirus. Betty Maina, cabinet secretary for trade and industry, on Friday said the country has the capacity to produce  million face masks. Mutahi Kagwe, cabinet secretary for health, called on the youth to help in enforcing social distancing measures put in place by the government. The measures imposed earlier, including curfew, suspension of public gatherings, ban on public meetings, and halting of international flights, are still in place. On March , Nigeria, the largest economy in Africa, announced a day lockdown of Lagos, Ogun and Abuja cities to control spread of the virus. The country, which has so far reported  cases and four deaths, announced a . million relief package to help mobilize public service to prevent spread of the disease in areas with poor living conditions. Ghana, which has  confirmed cases and five deaths, has imposed a lockdown on Accra and Kumasi cities. Lesotho, Comoros, Sao Tome and Principe, are the only African countries yet to report confirmed cases of coronavirus. edithmutethyachinadaily.com.cn ? Staff members of a supermarket wear protective covers at work in Johannesburg, South Africa, on Sunday, as the total number of COVID cases in the country rose to ,. CHEN CHENGXINHUA