Mutual respect foundation of cooperation in antivirus fight China Daily editorial
2020/4/6 21:51
 ? Not all apparently wellintentioned moves are free of prejudices, preconceived notions and oversights, as the joint statement of some US scholars and former government officials released on Friday revealed. ? The statement, jointly issued by Asia Societys Center on USChina Relations and the st Century China Center at UC San Diegos School of Global Policy and Strategy, calls upon China and the United States to join hands to fight the novel coronavirus pandemic, yet it echoes neither the spirit nor the sincerity of the open letter  Chinese scholars wrote to the US people a day earlier giving the same call. ? This shows the two sides still have some distance to cover before accepting each other as a reliable partner in the fight against the virus, let alone jointly meeting the other global challenges in the fast changing world. ? Despite Chinas readiness to help the US contain the virus, which President Xi Jinping reiterated during a conversation with his US counterpart on the phone on March , some US officials seem determined to badmouth China. ? A similar trait can be seen in the joint statement of the socalled Chinafriendly US scholars and former officials, as they have urged the US administration to ignore Chinas initial coverup, lack of transparency and failure to cooperate in order to launch joint research on a vaccine, and get personal protective gear, medicines and clinical experience from China to save lives in the US and beyond. ? Worse, the statement compares the scenario to the US cooperation with the Soviet Union to develop a vaccine for smallpox. ? By doing so, the signatories of the statement too are trying to cover up the US administrations belated and ineffective response to the outbreak in the country, which many say is worse than the Pearl Harbor and Sept , , attacks at least in terms of deaths. ? The truth, no matter how bitter the US may find it, is that after largely containing the virus at home, China diverted its attention to reviving the economy by increasing the outputs of medical products and dispatching them to other countries, and thus helping the world fight the outbreak. ? As of last weekend, China had donated medical supplies to more than  countries, and exported more than  billion surgical masks and , ventilators, and shared its experience of fighting the outbreak with the world. ? By contrast, the US is recalling its supplies and hijacking those meant for its allies, while continuously trying to occupy the high moral ground. ? As Chinese ambassador to the US Cui Tiankai said, this is a time for solidarity, collaboration and mutual support, especially as more American cities reach the community transmission stage, the next two weeks will be critical for the US, when it has to make real efforts, not play blame games, to combat the situation. ? But whether the US administration will put peoples lives above politics remains to be seen. ?