Allergy woes nothing to sneeze at
2020/4/6 10:26
A visitor takes selfies under a flowering magnolia tree at the National Grand Theater in Beijing on March . Photo by Zeng JiaFor China Daily Sufferers regular springtime symptoms worry colleagues amid novel coronavirus outbreak. With flulike symptomssneezing, coughing and a runny noseyearold Liu Yang went to hospital two times for a series of checks, only to be told she was allergic to pollen. While that comforted Liu and her parents, who were concerned about novel coronavirus pneumonia, the results did not convince her colleagues, who kept urging her to have another checkup. Warmer spring weather brings misery to some people. As plants begin to blossom and germinate, people allergic to pollen and willow catkins exhibit symptoms including coughing, sneezing and breathing difficulties. The symptoms can make other people nervous, worrying that the allergy sufferer could be infected with the novel coronavirus. According to data issued by the nations health authorities, more patients infected with novel coronavirus have recovered and been discharged from hospital, with newly diagnosed infections on the Chinese mainland mainly imported from overseas. Work and production is gradually resuming in an orderly manner in various regions and industries, with more people appearing on the streets and commuting to work. But while Chinas epidemic prevention and control work is bearing fruit, even the slightest symptoms of a respiratory ailment can worry some people. The cherry blossoms attract visitors to the Yuyuantan Park in Beijing, on March . Photo by Liu XianguoXinhua Inner turmoil Liu, from Zhengzhou, Henan province, has been working as an accountant for a startup company in Beijings Chaoyang district for about two years. She returned to Beijing following the Spring Festival holiday in late January. After spending  days in quarantine, Liu has always worn a surgical mask whenever she leaves her rented apartment. One reason is that the health authorities have repeatedly asked the public to wear masks to prevent transmission of the virus, the other is to protect herself from the pollens she is allergic to. Her company began asking some employees to work in the office early last month. Since then, she has donned a face mask, goggles and a hat whenever she ventures outdoors, but the protection they offer from pollens is not perfect. One morning, about two weeks ago, Liu started to sneeze and cough while on her way to work. She wasnt sure whether her flulike symptoms were caused by her pollen allergy or something else. I couldnt focus on my work that day and thought many times about where I had been and whether I was likely to have been in contact with anyone related to a novel coronavirus patient since returning to Beijing, she said. Liu said she tested her temperature every three hours that day and all of the readings were within the healthy range during the day time, but with a rising trend. That night it was . C, which worried her so much that she couldnt face eating dinner. I called my parents and told them I might have a fever, which also made them extremely anxious, as we know that fever is one of the key features of novel coronavirus infection, she said. Then my parents calmed me down and asked me to take some drugs for seasonal flu and have a good rest. However, the medicine didnt alleviate her symptoms and her eyes started to itch that night. She sent a text message to her boss, reported her situation and asked for a day off to have a medical checkup. I thought about a lot that night, Liu said. If I got infected, what should I do? Who was I going to call? Who would take care of my parents? Whether my boss would deduct my salary or even fire me because I couldnt work  a picture of an infected patient lying on a bed with a pipe connected to a ventilator even appeared in my mind. She finally fell asleep, suspecting afterward that the medicine might have helped. The first thing she did after waking up was to test her temperature again. The result, . C, made her feel much better as it was well under the . C signifying a mild fever. Anyone would be nervous in this special period if they had such symptoms because novel coronavirus pneumonia can be fatal and anyone infected could be in big trouble, Liu said. All wearing face masks, tourists flock to the Summer Palace in Beijing to enjoy the flowers on March . Photo by Zou HongChina Daily Office pressure When she went to the hospitals clinic, the doctor told her she was just allergic to pollen after taking her temperature, checking her symptoms and asking her multiple questions. The doctor said more time would be needed to figure out exactly what she was allergic to. Liu told her parents about the consultation later that day after her symptoms were relieved by medicine prescribed by the doctor, but they asked her to have another checkup the next day to make sure she had no symptoms related to novel coronavirus infection. My parents request may sound like an overreaction, but it was out of their concern, so I did go to the hospital to check again, she said. The next day, on her second visit to the hospital, a doctor calmed Liu down and said her symptoms were quite common among allergic patients and were not necessarily related to flu or pneumonia, adding that the most important thing was to figure out the source of the allergy. It was last year, during her first spring in Beijing, that Liu discovered she had allergies. She began coughing and sneezing and thought she had a cold or flu, two common illnesses at that time of the year. Her symptoms were relieved after a doctor prescribed some medicine. But the doctor didnt find the source of the allergic reaction and asked her to take daily notes and watch out for any change in her physical health. I didnt have contact with so many kinds of pollen when I was in my hometown, Liu said. Last year was my first time to have such symptoms, so I had no idea what caused it. Her time in quarantine meant she had less exposure to pollen early on and her allergy symptoms appeared later this year. But even though she got the allergy diagnosis confirmed at two checkups, her colleagues were still concerned. I told my boss that I had been checked twice and was just allergic to pollen, but she still politely asked me to work at home for a week and then get one more check, which made me quite embarrassed, Liu said. Some of my colleagues also texted me to comfort me and inquire about my symptoms. Then they implied that one more check would be good for everyone. Liang Yan, who works as a computer support technician for a visual effects company in Beijing, was also asked by his employer to have a medical checkup because he was coughing, had a runny nose and was exhibiting other cold symptoms. Liang, , first noticed the symptoms after his return to the office. At first his eyes itched, and then he began coughing and feeling tired. I have an allergic history, so I told myself it must be the same pollen allergy as before, but the continuous coughing made me nervous, he said. I didnt know whether it was caused by the allergy or a cold, or the ongoing novel coronavirus pneumonia. Liang started to have allergy symptoms, usually in springtime, when he was in high school in his hometown in Anhui province. They affected him a lot, but his parents thought he was just unwilling to focus on his studies and didnt pay too much attention to his sneezing, coughing and tirednesssymptoms that usually disappeared in two or three weeks. He received his first medical treatment for his allergies after entering university in Beijing about eight years ago, when his condition was quite severe. He later discovered he was allergic to willow catkins and certain kinds of pollen. At that time, I was dizzy and had chest tightness and difficulty breathing, Liang said. Since then, Ive been very careful when Im outdoors in the spring, as Beijing has many willows and different kinds of flowers. There were more than , female willow trees growing within Beijings fifth ring road last year, according to the citys Gardening and Greening Bureau, which is the main reason why catkins fly all over the capital each spring. Pollen concentration monitoring by the Beijing Meteorological Service showed levels in the capital were extremely high last month, and people with pollen allergies were urged to avoid going out. Liang went to the emergency treatment center at a hospital in Changping district because he thought the normal clinic might have been crowded and he wanted to avoid contact with too many people. The medical staff asked him a series of questions, such as whether hed had any contact with confirmed or suspected novel coronavirus patients or whether he had traveled abroad and to other highrisk places during the previous two weeks. They also checked his temperature twice. I passed a series of medical checks and the doctor finally diagnosed that I was allergic to pollen, which was accompanied by a common cold that may have been caused by the changeable weather, Liang said. The diagnosis calmed his nerves and his allergic symptoms subsided after medication, although he still has a cold. Colorful blossoms in the Beijing Botanical Garden on March . Photo by Liu XianguoXinhua No need to panic At home, Liangs roommate kept the windows and doors open for good ventilation after noticing him coughing and sneezing, but the opened windows also bothered Liang, since willow catkins and pollen could get into the room and settle on clothes, causing his symptoms to recur. I can understand his concerns during this special period, and the health authorities have also recommended the public open windows and doors to get more fresh air, Liang said. But these tiny things exist everywhere. Ive discussed shortening the time the windows are open with my roommate, and I now wear a mask when theyre open. Chen Hao, a yearold real estate agent in Beijings Haidian district, said his two roommates had reacted in a similar fashion. Chen has been allergic to pollen since high school, and started to cough, sneeze and scratch his arms frequently early last month. Chen explained his allergy history to his roommates, but they still often keep their door open for ventilation. Like Liu and Liang, he struggled with whether to go to hospital, worrying about the risk of novel coronavirus infection but also concerned he could suffer from his allergies for weeks. On my way to the hospital, the taxi driver opened all the windows when he found I had a cough and was sneezing, even though we both wore masks, Chen said. We didnt say anything during  minutes of depressing travel. The moment I got out of the car, I told him I was just allergic and he didnt need to worry. After his visit to the hospital, Chen thought about why the public is so afraid of the virus. I was afraid of crossinfection, and so was the driver, he said. But we dont have to be, as long as everyone takes proper protective measures such as wearing masks and paying attention to personal hygiene. There is no need to overreact or panic, since the fight against the epidemic is being won.