Indian expats in Shanghai hail Chinas epidemic response
2020/4/6 1:19
Medical staff members at St Thomas Hospital in London wear protective clothing as the fight against the novel coronavirus outbreak continues.? Unions call on government to take positive steps to ensure staff safety Medical staff in the United Kingdom continue to raise concerns over a lack of personal protective equipment, or PPE, despite government assurances of more supplies and new guidance on usage by frontline staff. One National Health Service community nurse in London, who asked to remain anonymous, told China Daily about her worries over a lack of PPE when she visits vulnerable and elderly patients. Patients who have received the letter asking them to selfisolate for  weeks are feeling at risk because community nurses are not wearing PPE, as we are only given it for suspected or positive patients, she said. She said hospitals are currently releasing patients without telling community nurses their medical history. Nurses have been advised to wear full PPE for all discharged hospital patients, the London nurse said. We have the right to ask the patient before a visit if they have a temperature or cough. If they dont then we dont wear PPE and if they do have symptoms, we have to go back to the office and pick up a mask. That, she said, is not enough, and that they should be allowed PPE for every patient they visit. Some patients might have COVID and are not showing symptoms, and if Im infected without knowing it, Im seeing other patients the same day. In a statement issued on Friday, the British Medical Association, the Royal College of Nursing, and unions Unite and Unison all called for the government to coordinate effort to produce protective equipment that millions of key workers desperately need to keep safe during the health crisis. Joined by industry federations including the ADS Group and the British Printing Industries Federation, the unions said manufacturing capacity currently furloughed or underutilized should be repurposed amongst the UKs world leading manufacturers to produce the PPE kit desperately needed by our NHS, social care providers and other frontline workers across UK industry. David Wrigley, BMA deputy chair, said Doctors, healthcare workers and carers are risking their lives daytoday in the battle against COVID. They must be protected with proper PPE so they can stay healthy to care for patients safely and stop the spread of this deadly virus. He urged the government to spearhead a national drive and support UK manufacturers to make the PPE equipment healthcare workers need. With the UKs health workers enduring severe shortages and suffering a postcode lottery in the supply of vital protective equipment, the government has a moral duty to do everything in its power now, to protect doctors and protect patients, Wrigley said. Let us now unleash the brilliance of the UKs manufacturing workers to alleviate the critical shortage of PPE and protect doctors so that they can help you, he added. Donna Kinnair, Royal College of Nursing chief executive and general secretary, said it is completely unacceptable that nursing staff have not been provided with PPE. We will not accept anything less than aprons, gloves and masks for all staff, in all settings. But this is a minimum  and that is why we are so disappointed even that level of protection has yet to be provided. Every minute we wait is a minute too long, Kinnair said. UNISON General Secretary Dave Prentis said There must be a nationwide effort with government and manufacturers all doing their bit so public service workers can get the equipment they need. As they are protecting and looking after us, so we must protect and look after them. This sensible proposal could go a long way towards solving the current problems. ADS chief executive, Paul Everitt, said Manufacturers have the capabilities needed to help the government and the NHS address the challenges they are facing and we are working with them to help make sure they can access the equipment they require. On Thursday, the NHS announced that more than five million aprons, one million FFP face masks, six million surgical masks and  million gloves were delivered to medical staff. In total, more than . million units of PPE were delivered to  trusts and providers, the health service said.