Europe extends social distancing duration
2020/4/6 0:00
MADRIDAs European nations see the benefits of social distancing, many have decided to extend the duration of such measures as the continent continues to see an increase in the number of COVID infections. Spanish Prime Minister Pedro Sanchez said on Saturday he would ask parliament to extend lockdown measures until April , as Spain has the most number of confirmed cases in Europe. In a televised address, Sanchez said the current lockdown was beginning to show results, but he warned that Saturdays extension of the countrys state of emergency would not be the last. Although the rate of new coronavirus infections and deaths slowed again, Spains confirmed coronavirus case tally reached , on Saturday, surpassing Italys ,, according to the latest figures. The tally placed Spain first in Europe and second only to the United States worldwide in terms of confirmed cases. In Italy, the virusravaged Lombardy region now requires residents to wear a protective mask when they go outside in a bid to further trim infections. The ordinance from Lombardy Governor Attilio Fontana goes into effect on Sunday and lasts through April . It mirrors similar ordinances in recent days from two other hardhit regions Veneto and Alto Adige, which require protective masks for residents particularly if shopping in stores and markets. Lombardy has passed particularly tight restrictions on movement and business operations in an effort to curb infections in the epicenter of Europes outbreak. The new ordinance extends those tight restrictions to midApril but makes a new exception to the shutdown for stationery stores to reopen to let students buy school supplies. Field hospital opened In Britain, Londons new emergency field hospital opened its doors on Friday as the novel coronavirus crisis continues to escalate in the country. The Nightingale Hospital is able to hold as many as , patients and is the first of several such facilities planned across the country. A further two hospitals will be built in Bristol and Harrogate, along with others in Manchester and Birmingham, to provide hundreds of extra beds, the National Health Service announced. Meanwhile, Minister for the Cabinet Office Michael Gove said hundreds of new ventilators are being manufactured daily in Britain and  arrived from China on Saturday. Gove also said the increasing death toll from COVID shows more than ever that Britons must stick to the governments lockdown measures. NHS England Medical Director Stephen Powis said it would take a week or two before Britains social distancing measures started to translate into lower hospitalization rates, but there was a bit of a plateauing in London in recent days. According to the official data, the total number of infections increased to , on Saturday. The death toll stands at ,. Meanwhile, when asked about the so called theory that G telecommunications masts could play a role in the spread of the disease, Gove said the it is just nonsense, dangerous nonsense as well. The G story is the worst kind of fake news, Powis said. The reality is that the mobile phone networks are absolutely critical to all of us. Mobile phone masts have in recent days been vandalized and telecoms staff abused in Birmingham in central England and Merseyside in northern England. Separately, the European Union announced on Friday plans to temporarily waive customs duties and valueadded tax on the import of medical devices and protective equipment from nonEU countries to help the fight against coronavirus. The measure will be effective until July , with a possibility for further extension. Xinhua  Agencies Iacopo Mastrangelo plays his guitar while looking over Piazza Navona on Saturday, as Italians remain under lockdown to prevent the spread of the novel coronavirus. ALBERTO LINGRIAREUTERS