Medical support on its way to the Philippines
2020/4/5 14:05
At the invitation of the Philippine government, a group of  Fujian medical experts set off to the southeastern country on April ,  from Fuzhou, capital of Chinas Fujian province, to aid the countrys campaign to fight against on the ongoing COVID pandemic. Provided to China Daily At the invitation of the Philippine government, a group of  medical experts set off to the southeast Asian country on Sunday from Fuzhou, capital of East Chinas Fujian province, to aid the countrys campaign in the fight against on the ongoing COVID pandemic. The team is composed of seasoned experts from Fujian Provincial Hospital, Fujian Provincial Center for Disease Control and Prevention, the First Affiliated Hospital of Fujian Medical University and Peoples Hospital affiliated to Fujian University of Traditional Chinese Medicine. They are experts in respiratory disease, intensive?care units, traditional Chinese medicine, Chinese and Western Integrative Medicine, infectious epidemic control, microbiological testing and medical care. They also brought urgent medical materials and equipment, including  ventilators, , sets of medical protective suits, , N facial masks, , medical facial masks and , medical facial shields, which were donated by the Fujian provincial government. In addition, some organizations, like the Overseas Chinese Charity Foundation of China and the Association of Fujian Overseas Friendship Association, as well as some local enterprises, donated up to  tons of medical materials, equipment and traditional Chinese medicines to the Philippine government. At the invitation of the Philippine government, a group of  Fujian medical experts set off to the southeastern country on April ,  from Fuzhou, capital of Chinas Fujian province, to aid the countrys campaign to fight against on the ongoing COVID pandemic. Provided to China Daily The Fujian team is composed of  experts majoring in respiratory disease, intensive?care units, traditional Chinese medicine, Chinese and Western Integrative Medicine, infectious epidemic control, microbiological testing and medical care from leading Fujian hospitals and disease control and prevention authority, April , . Provided to China Daily A Fujian doctor who is member of the medical aid team and about to set off to the Philippines, on April , , was given a fudai,or an auspicious bag, by local citizens to bless their success in their aid to fight against the pandemic in the Philippines. Provided to China Daily Fujian medical experts are bringing urgent medical materials and equipment, including  ventilators, , N facial masks, , medical facial masks and , medical facial shields, to the Philippines, on April , . Photo provided to China Daily Fujian medical experts are bringing urgent medical materials and equipment, including  ventilators, , N facial masks, , medical facial masks and , medical facial shields, to the Philippines, on April , . Photo provided to China Daily ?