Spain overtakes Italy in cases, European countries adhere to COVID measures
2020/4/5 9:11
A man waves a Spanish flag from his home in support of healthcare workers, during the coronavirus disease COVID outbreak, in Ronda, southern Spain, April , .  BRUSSELS  Spains confirmed coronavirus case tally reached , on Saturday, surpassing Italys ,, according to the latest figures from the two countries. The tally placed Spain first in Europe and second only to the United States worldwide in terms of confirmed cases. According to the Center for Systems Science and Engineering at Johns Hopkins University, the United States has confirmed more than , infections by Saturday afternoon. Spain plus Italy have formed the bulk of the coronavirus cases on the European continent, being the two hardesthit European countries. A woman looks out of an apartment window as Italians remain under lockdown to prevent the spread of the coronavirus disease COVID in Venice, Italy April , .  A GLIMMER OF HOPE Despite the saddened figures, a glimmer of hope seems to appear in Europeans battle against the virus, with some positive changes occurring. Spain reported  new deaths between Friday and Saturday,  fewer than the  deaths registered between Thursday and Friday. The singleday increase of , new cases on Saturday was also down from the , recorded on Friday. Italy also reported its first decline in the number of patients in intensive care units. The number of patients in intensive care has decreased by  individuals, Civil Protection Department Chief Angelo Borrelli said on Saturday. It is the first negative number since we began managing the emergency, he added. Saturdays death toll of  also continued the declining trend these days. The number of daily fatalities has constantly been decreasing from a high of  deaths on March , Borrelli pointed out. France, despite a spike in death toll because of the inclusion of the deaths linked to COVID in nursing homes, started to see a slowdown of growth in the number of patients requiring life support. It dropped to . percent on Saturday from  percent on Friday. This permanent need to find beds in intensive care units increases less quickly, said Director General of Health Jerome Salomon. The number of cured people is also increasing very quickly. COVID cases in Portugal on Saturday passed the , mark, reaching ,. But the number of infected people appears to be decreasing in recent days, according to the countrys public health experts. Similar positive changes are also being observed in other European countries. The number of COVID patients hospitalized in the Netherlands is growing at a slower pace. We have seen the number of admissions increases less rapidly in recent days than last week, said Ernst Kuipers, chairman of the Dutch National Coordination Center for Patient Distribution on Saturday. The social distancing seems to work. It is therefore very important to continue this, Kuipers stated. A staff member of a medical center, wearing a protective face mask and gloves, checks the temperature of a patient at a testing site for coronavirus disease COVID in Paris as the spread of the coronavirus disease continues in France March , .  ANTIVIRUS MEASURES TO STAY More and more European nations have realized the effects of social distancing and decided to extend related measures. Spanish Prime Minister Pedro Sanchez confirmed Saturday that he would ask for an extension of the State of Alarm to contain the spread of the coronavirus. The three weeks of lockdown in Spain to date have slowed the spread of the virus they have slowed the number of people going to hospitals, and they have allowed the number of people leaving hospitals to increase, he said. Greece joined a slew of European countries, which have extended their COVID measures, to announce on Saturday that it is extending its nationwide lockdown to April . With a singleday increase of , Switzerlands total number of confirmed coronavirus cases has surged to , as of Saturday morning, the Swiss Federal Office of Public Health FOPH reported on its website. Noting a constant growth of confirmed cases, roughly , per day, Daniel Koch, a top official from FOPH, said Switzerland has definitely not reached a peak where easing lockdown measures could be taken into account. In Italy, which has extended the nationwide lockdown till April , Health Minister Roberto Speranza reiterated the importance of respecting social distancing. Right now, the path of social distancing is the true weapon we have at our disposal, Speranza said in an interview with RAI News . He was echoed by Extraordinary Commissioner for the Coronavirus Emergency Domenico Arcuri, who warned citizens in a press conference to abstain from thinking that the time has already come to ... go back to normal behavior. For now, nothing has changed, he emphasized.