The Basic Law  best safeguard for HKs prosperity and stability
2020/4/4 6:54
On April , , the Basic Law of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the Peoples Republic of China was adopted by the Seventh National Peoples Congress of the Peoples Republic of China. The Basic Law enshrines the basic policies of the PRC regarding the HKSAR and provides a solid constitutional basis for the implementation of one country, two systems. Looking back, we must not forget the purpose and mission of the Basic Law. The Basic Law clearly states that Hong Kong has been part of the territory of China since ancient times and is an inalienable part of the PRC. It is a special administrative region enjoying a high degree of autonomy under the Central Peoples Government. Upholding national unity and territorial integrity, maintaining the prosperity and stability of Hong Kong, and taking account of history and realities, the one country, two systems principle was put forth by Mr Deng Xiaoping as a way to preserve the characteristics and strengths of Hong Kong as much as possible and to enable Hong Kong citizens to maintain their way of life. In the  years since its return to the motherland, Hong Kong has weathered different challenges and, on the whole, the implementation of one country, two systems has been successful. Leveraging on our strengths in free market economy, rule of law, independent judiciary and the free flow of information and with our countrys strong support, Hong Kong has developed into an international financial, trade and transportation center and attracted more than , overseas and mainland companies to establish offices here, with many of them making Hong Kong as their regional headquarters in AsiaPacific. International financial center Article  of the Basic Law confirms Hong Kongs status as an international financial center and stipulates that the government of the HKSAR shall provide an appropriate economic and legal environment for the maintenance of such status. Specifically, under the Basic Law The Hong Kong dollar is the legal tender of the HKSAR and the linked exchange rate system has been maintained. With the strong support of the central government, Hong Kong has been able to maintain financial stability even during turbulent times. Riding on our countrys reform and openingup, Hong Kong has also developed into the worlds largest offshore renminbi center. The free flow of capital is protected and has attracted a large number of foreign direct investment and companies using Hong Kong as an ideal platform for IPOs and fundraising. Over the past  years, Hong Kong has topped the annual global IPO rankings six times. Hong Kong maintains a simple and low tax system, which is key to Hong Kongs success as an international financial, trading and business center. The HKSAR government is free to implement tax measures according to policy needs under its independent tax system. Since I took office, I have put in place initiatives such as the twotier profits tax system and tax deduction for research and development expenditure to enhance Hong Kongs competitiveness. Rule of law and independent judiciary The Basic Law preserves and guarantees Hong Kongs longestablished and trusted common law system and allows the HKSAR to enjoy independent judicial power, including that of final adjudication. The rule of law and an independent judiciary, which are held dearly by Hong Kong people, are constitutionally protected. The Basic Law stipulates that judges shall be appointed by the chief executive on the recommendation of an independent commission for the appointment of judges of the Court of Final Appeal and the chief judge of the High Court, the chief executive shall obtain the endorsement of the Legislative Council and report such appointment to the Standing Committee of the NPC for the record. Last month, I accepted the recommendation of the Judicial Officers Recommendation Commission to appoint the Honourable Mr Justice Andrew Cheung Kuinung, permanent judge of the CFA, to succeed the Honourable Chief Justice Geoffrey Ma Taoli who will retire next year. The Basic Law also allows the CFA to draw on the experience of judges from other common law jurisdictions. Currently,  eminent judges from the United Kingdom, Australia and Canada are sitting on the CFA as nonpermanent judges. Their participation shows that our rule of law and independent judiciary are well recognized. Rights and freedoms of residents The fundamental rights and freedoms of Hong Kong residents are fully protected by the Basic Law. Under Chapter , Hong Kong residents shall have freedom of speech, of the press and of publication freedom of association, of assembly, of procession and of demonstration freedom of the person freedom of communication freedom of religious belief freedom of choice of occupation freedom to engage in academic research, literary and artistic creation, and other cultural activities freedom of marriage, etc. However, as pointed out by our courts in their judgments, freedom is not absolute one should respect the rights and freedoms of other people and be subject to law when exercising such freedoms. Developing external affairs Hong Kong has always been a bridge between the East and the West. The Basic Law allows the HKSAR to maintain and develop relations with foreign states and regions and relevant international organizations in the appropriate fields, including economic, trade, financial and monetary, shipping, communications, tourism, cultural and sports fields on its own, using the name Hong Kong, China. The HKSAR has participated in the World Trade Organization, the World Meteorological Organization, the AsiaPacific Economic Cooperation and many others in the name Hong Kong, China and has entered into hundreds of bilateral agreements with other countries, including Free Trade Agreements, Investment Promotion and Protection Agreements and Comprehensive Double Taxation Agreements. Hong Kong athletes can also represent Hong Kong in international competitions. The implementation of one country, two systems fully demonstrates that it is the best institutional arrangement to maintain Hong Kongs longterm prosperity and stability. As a pioneering initiative, its application entails an evolving process and we have to effectively and fully apply this principle in order to maintain the prosperity and stability of Hong Kong, to meet the aspirations of our citizens and to meet the fundamental interests of our country. I encourage all Hong Kong citizens to learn more about the Basic Law, including the institutional safeguards, and the rights and duties of Hong Kong residents. In so doing, we should consider how best we can continue to leverage on Hong Kongs advantages, allowing Hong Kong to advance with the country and enabling every Hong Kong resident to realize their goals. ? The nationalConstitution is the foundation of the Basic Law and the one country, two systems principle. To better implement the Basic Law and the principle, we must strengthen education about the Constitution and the Basic Law. We need to make sure all of society, especially civil servants and young people, have a solid understanding of the relationship between the Constitution and the Basic Law and grasp the essence of one country, two systems. So they can actively participate in the countrys economic, social and cultural development, and help Hong Kong play its unique role in national strategies such as the Belt and Road Initiative and the development of the GuangdongHong KongMacao Greater Bay Area. Let us seize the fresh opportunities, and forge a better future through the proper implementation of the Basic Law and the one country, two systems principle. Teresa Cheng Yeukwah, secretary for justice of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region The Basic Law ensured the smooth transfer of Hong Kong before and after its unification with the motherland. It has also ensured the sound implementation of one country, two systems since , and guaranteed the principle is not distorted. The one country, two systems principle has proved to be the best solution to the question of Hong Kong, and the best institutional arrangement for maintaining the citys longterm prosperity and stability. Hong Kong was able to leverage on the advantages provided by one country, two systems as the principle is enshrined in the Basic Law, and emerged as Asias World City. Maria Tam Waichu, deputy director of the Basic Law Committee The opposition camp has long been talking about their rights under the Basic Law, while avoiding mentioning their responsibilities. For example, they ask for universal suffrage, which is stipulated in the Basic Law, but ignore the . decision made by the Standing Committee of the National Peoples Congress in . They emphasize freedoms and rights enshrined in the Basic Law, but disregard the cardinal principles of national integrity and national security. It is very important for the SAR government to refute those onesided statements. Otherwise, it will only deepen the publics misunderstanding of the Basic Law. The government, especially the chief executive and principal officials, must proactively counter the biased views of the opposition camp and let the right voice be heard. Lau Siukai, vicepresident of the Chinese Association of Hong Kong and Macao Studies Foreign forces have been using Hong Kong as a base for subversion in their attempt to launch a color revolution. Separatism has emerged in the city in the course of the implementation of the Basic Law. To solve the problems in Hong Kong, we must have laws. But the laws alone are not enough. We also need promotion and education on social ideology. Education will bring back peoples hearts, and the law is the last line of defense. Lawrence MaYankwok, barrister and chairman of the Hong Kong Legal Exchange Foundation The drafting of the Basic Law took five years in the s, with extensive public consultations to broadly represent the interests of different sectors of Hong Kong society. It went through a number of drafts. The Basic Law is accepted and respected by society in general. Though legal systems vary, it is agreed by all that compliance with the law is fundamental to the rule of law. The legal system loses its supremacy if people do not observe or respect the law. Any claim against the law is a challenge to the rule of law. They should not be glorified as disobedience to uphold the rule of law. Those with a mob mentality hide their political agendas and selfish ideas behind the mask of justice. If we wish to uphold the fine tradition of the rule of law in Hong Kong, we must abide by the law and express our views and aspirations within the legal framework. Simon Lee Hoey, member of the Basic Law Promotion Steering Committee When drafting the Basic Law, the Hong KongBasic Law Drafting Committeedecided that Article  was necessary because the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region, an international city, enjoys a high degree of autonomy under the one country, two systems principle. So there has to be legal guarantee for one country that prevents foreign forces from using Hong Kong to subvert the central government, split the country, incite rebellion, steal national secrets, and so on. Article  aims to safeguard national sovereignty and territorial integrity. In implementing the one country, two systems principle, we need to make the people of Hong Kong understand that the central government has been sincerely wishing for the success of one country, two systems. Apart from acting in strict accordance with the Constitution and the Basic Law, Hong Kong should also make use of one country, two systems to play to its strengths and seize opportunities in national development plans such as the GuangdongHong KongMacao Greater Bay Area. We should not impose limits on ourselves. Tam Yiuchung, member of the NationalPeoplesCongress Standing Committee and former member of the Hong KongBasic Law DraftingCommittee The Extradition Bill Incident, which continues until this day, has had profound impact on the implementation of the one country, two systems principle. Hong Kong is now filled with disoriented ideologies, while its political landscape is experiencingprofound changes. It is time for all stakeholders  including the central government, the HKSAR government, the Hong Kong community and the people of the Chinese mainland  to review the practice of the one country, two systems principle over the past  years. We need to search for a solution that breaks the deadlock and reaches consensus. The HKSAR government and all sectors of the community must waste no time in strengthening peoples understanding of the Constitution and the Basic Law, and fostering national identity, especially among public servants and young people. We must face up to Hong Kongs longstanding deficiencies in national education, and step up patriotic education. The oversimplified idea that Hong Kongs governance is a high degree of autonomyand Hong Kong people governing Hong Kong has misinterpreted the original intent of the Basic Law. Hong Kongs unprecedented, high degree of autonomy is defined on the premise of adhering to one country and the countrys constitutional order. Hong Kongs high degree of autonomy is a fantasy if divorced from China and Chinas constitutional order and the Basic Law. The Basic Law stipulates that the HKSAR shall enjoy the highest degree of autonomy within a country, only because the Constitution established the principle of one country, two systems on account of the history and situation of Hong Kong. Theone country, two systems principle, Hong Kong peoplegoverningHong Kongand a high degreeofautonomy, the highlights of the Basic Law, make Hong Kong even more outstanding in the world. Rao Geping, law professor atPekingUniversity,and former member oftheBasic Law Committee ?