UN warns hunger in West Africa bound to worsen amid outbreak
2020/4/3 20:41
Sheikh, from the Village Pilote association wears a protective face mask during a food distribution to street children amid an outbreak of the coronavirus disease COVID, in Dakar, Senegal April , .  The United Nations, via the World Food Program, has projected a  percent increase in the number of people who will face hunger during the upcoming dry season between June and September in West Africa. WFP has also warned the situation is likely to be complicated further by the coronavirus pandemic. According to a WFP food assessment of  West African countries released on April , the food insecure number inBurkina Faso is expected to be more than . million people in June, up from over , at the same time last year. This is a crisis layered on top of a crisis, and the situation risks getting out of hand, said Chris Nikoi, WFPs Regional Director for West Africa. People are on the brink and we must step up now to save lives. Our message to the world is clear  look away now and the consequences will be no less than catastrophic. According to WFPs assessment, the situation across Africas Central Sahel region, which encompasses Burkina Faso, Mali and Niger, is extremely worrying, with the number of hungry rising steadily as the pandemic deepens. This has pushed . million people in Mali and  million people in Niger into severe food insecurity. WFP assisted . million people in Burkina Faso and Mali in February, but more support is needed to tackle the crisis, especially as the threat of the coronavirus puts lifesaving humanitarian work on the line. WFP urgently requires  million through August  to carry out its lifesaving operations in this region, the assessment by WFP states. WFP says it is using lessons and resources established during the  West Africa Ebola outbreak, which showed food assistance can play a vital role in containing disease spread. In addition, food security reduces vulnerabilities to infection through nutrition programs that target vulnerable communities with compromised immune systems, like the chronically ill and the elderly. As it did in response to the Ebola outbreak in  and again in , WFP will continue to leverage its unmatched logistical expertise and field presence to closely monitor food supplies, preposition food stocks to priority operations and support the WHO and governments with supply chain expertise, the statement read. WFP further states the number of internally displaced people has increased fourfold across the Central Sahel, with numbers spiking in Burkina Faso to , up from half a million at the start of the year. Most of the refugee populations live in close proximity and lack adequate medical facilities, putting them at elevated risk of contracting the coronavirus.