African countries tighten restrictions as COVID infections surge
2021/7/27 17:15
Following surging cases of COVID infections across Africa fueled by the spread of the more contagious Delta variant that has left hospitals overwhelmed, countries are now tightening restrictions to contain the virus. According to data from the Africa Centers for Disease Control and Prevention,  African Union member states are now reporting the Delta variant, first reported in India. The variant has been reported by a majority of the  countries that are currently experiencing a more severe third wave. Algeria, one of the two African countries experiencing the fourth wave, reimposed day restrictions to contain the spread of the COVID Delta variant, effective Monday. The measures announced on Sunday target  of  provinces, and they include a ban on public gatherings, a night curfew from  pm to  am, take away services by restaurants and cafes, and mandatory wearing of face masks while in public places. International passengers also will be required to present a negative COVID test result, taken within  hours before traveling to the country. As of Monday, Algeria had reported , COVID infection cases and , deaths. The country has so far vaccinated  million people. On Monday, Rwanda, which is experiencing a third wave of COVID, extended lockdown for the capital, Kigali, and eight other provinces for five days. In a communique issued on Sunday by the office of the prime minister, the lockdown extension is meant to consolidate the gains in decreasing the number of COVID cases and related deaths. The measures include a ban on movements and visits outside the home, recreational activities, outdoor sports and public transport. Schools and learning institutions will remain closed. Rwanda has so far reported more than , COVID infection cases and slightly over  deaths. The country has vaccinated . percent of its population against COVID. Unlike Algeria and Rwanda, South Africa eased its restrictions on Sunday, following a  percent drop of new infections compared with the previous week. The measures that we put in place for the past  days, alongside the continued adherence of South Africans to basic health precautions, have been effective in reducing the rate of infection, President Cyril Ramaphosa said in his address to the nation on Sunday. Ramaphosa announced the opening of restaurants, bars, taverns, and fitness centers. Religious services, political events and social gatherings will be limited to a maximum of  people indoors and  people outdoors. Attendance at funerals and cremations will be limited to  people. However, night vigils and afterfuneral gatherings will not be allowed. Schools were reopened on Monday, with strict health protocols and other measures announced by the Minister of Basic Education. Ramaphosa urged South Africans to continue wearing face masks when in public, keeping distance and always ensuring that windows are open to allow the flow of fresh air. As we ease restrictions, we must remember that infections remain high and that we need to continue to exercise caution, Ramaphosa said. Noting that vaccination is the most effective weapon in the fight against COVID, Ramaphosa said the country will increase the rate of vaccination in the coming weeks, as well as increasing vaccination capacity on weekends. We will now allow people between the ages of  and  to be vaccinated from Sept , he said. So far, South Africa, which is the most affected country in the continent in terms of Covid infections and deaths, has reported over . million infection cases and almost , deaths. To date, the country has vaccinated . percent of its population.