Two more beauticians among  new COVID cases in HK
2020/4/3 13:46
A woman wears a facemask as a precautionary measure against the coronavirus as she walks past the departure turnstiles at Hong Kongs international airport on March , , ANTHONY WALLACE  AFP HONG KONG  Two more beauticians are among another  people in Hong Kong found to be infected with COVID caused by a novel coronavirus on Thursday, bringing the citys tally to . The infections came to the fore a day after the government ordered a day closure of three more types of leisure venues. However, beauty parlors  also regarded as places with a somewhathigh infection risk  were not included in the ban. On Wednesday, an employee of a beauty parlor in Tsim Sha Tsui was confirmed to be infected, bringing the number of infected beauty parlor employees to three. Of the two newly indentified patients, one took part in outdoor activities with a beautician confirmed to be infected Wednesday. They worked in different parlors. The other newly infected beautician is a yearold woman who worked in Causeway Bay. She wore a face mask during work. Her source of infection is still being investigated. As for other fresh cases,  people have history of recent travel, including  students returning from overseas, and a yearold whose parents brought the child back from Sweden. In addition, a nurse in Tuen Mun Hospital has preliminarily tested positive for the virus. She was not caring for COVID patients, though. She went on leave on March  and stayed in London from March  to . Her deep throat saliva specimens tested positive for COVID during her home quarantine in Hong Kong. A total of  confirmed patients are being treated in  public hospitals, eight of them in a critical condition, while another seven have been discharged, bringing the number of recovered people in HK to . Public hospital slots remained tight as  percent of the citys , isolation beds had been occupied, with  percent of its  isolation wards in use. The Hospital Authority said four infected people were still waiting to be admitted as of Thursday afternoon.