NYC to mandate vaccines or tests for its workers
2021/7/27 10:40
A health center advertises for the Covid vaccine in a neighborhood near Brighton Beach on July ,  in the Brooklyn borough of New York City.  The mayor of New York City announced Monday that teachers, police officers and the rest of the citys , employees must be vaccinated by midSeptember or face weekly coronavirus testing, while California announced a vaccineverification program for all state and healthcare employees, and the federal Veterans Administration issued a vaccine mandate for healthcare workers. This is about our recovery. This is about what we need to do to bring back New York City, Mayor Bill de Blasio said. This is about keeping people safe. Renee Campion, commissioner at the New York City Office of Labor Relations, said if employees refuse to comply, they will be put on leave without pay. Mondays decision makes New York City one of the largest employers in the US to take such action. The mayor said the announcement was part of what will be an intense vaccination effort leading up to the start of the school year. The New York City mandate begins after Labor Day. September is when many employers are bringing back a lot of their employees, he said. September is when school starts full strength. September is when people come back from the summer. Hours after New York Citys announcement, officials in California announced that state employees and all healthcare workers will be required to show proof of COVID vaccination or get tested weekly. Starting in August, approximately , state employees in California, along with healthcare workers, must show proof of their vaccination status or be tested regularly, Governor Gavin Newsom said Monday. Those who cant verify they are fully vaccinated must wear masks in the office and be tested for the virus weekly, state health officials said. Too many people have chosen to live with this virus, Newsom said at a news conference Monday. Were at a point in this pandemic where individuals choice not to get vaccinated is now impacting the rest of us, and in a profound and devastating and deadly way. Newsom and de Blasio, both Democrats, also urged private employers to implement similar vaccination mandates. The Veterans Affairs Department on Monday became the first federal agency to issue a vaccine mandate, requiring all of its medical employees to get a jab within eight weeks. It said that four of its employees, all of whom were unvaccinated, had died from COVID in recent weeks. Whenever a veteran or VA employee sets foot in a VA facility, they deserve to know that we have done everything in our power to protect them from COVID, Veterans Affairs Secretary Denis McDonough said in a statement. Meanwhile, medical groups representing millions of doctors, nurses, pharmacists and other health workers on Monday called for mandatory vaccinations of all US health personnel against the coronavirus. We call for all healthcare and longterm care employers to require their employees to be vaccinated against COVID, the American Medical Association, the American Nurses Association and  other groups wrote in a joint statement, The Washington Post reported. The health and safety of US workers, families, communities, and the nation depends on it. It was the first time the groups issued a statement to urge a mandate, representing an increasing tough stance by the medical and public health establishment amid the sluggish pace of national vaccinations. At the same time, federal regulators have requested vaccine companies Pfizer and Moderna to expand the size of their clinical trials for children ages  to , which began in late March. The move is to assess whether a rare inflammation of the heart muscle that has been seen in young adults shortly after vaccination is more common in younger age groups. The New York Times reported Monday that the FDA asked both Moderna and Pfizer to include , children in the  to yearold trials, citing anonymous sources. The changes could delay the availability of the vaccines to children between the ages of  and , which was scheduled for early fall, The Washington Post reported. The FDA is likely to require two months of followup data for the to age group, as it did for adults and adolescents. For children under , the agency may require four to six months of followup data, meaning vaccines are unlikely to be available for several months for infants and young children, according to the Post. Meanwhile, several cities, including Savannah, Georgia St. Louis, Missouri and Provincetown, Massachusetts, reinstated indoor mask mandates to stop the spread of COVID. St. Louis will require those age  and older to wear masks in indoor public spaces and on public transportation. Mayor Tishaura Jones said the city is still at a dangerous point with the virus, facing infection numbers not seen since December. State Attorney General Eric Schmitt, a Republican who is also running for US Senate, threatened to file a lawsuit to prevent the mandate. In a tweet, he referred to the measure as insane and positioned the lawsuit as an effort to protect freedom.