Tough decisions are now needed to stop an escalation of cases
2020/4/3 9:41
With the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region in the midst of a second onslaught of infection from the COVID virus, surely it is not too much to expect the government to follow the examples of best practice employed by our neighbors, or seek their advice as to how best to deal with some of the problems we face. Decisive, accountable and courageous actions seem to be the most effective way of limiting the spread and maintaining order within the necessary supply chains to keep the economy functioning. Unfortunately, as we continue to teeter on the cliff edge, anything other than robust, decisive and meaningful actions does little but prolong the anxiety and misery. Undoubtedly, the result will be an increased number of tragic and unnecessary deaths with those on the front line exposed even further. The eventual cost as an economic free fall gathers pace is indeterminable, and our reputation as an international city diminishing. We dont have to look far afield for examples of best practice. The central government has been exemplary in reducing and stopping the spread of COVID. At the outset, it chose to implement very tough measures and to take strong action with robust enforcement. As recently as a month ago, many in the West regarded some of these measures as draconian and unnecessary. But within weeks or in some cases even days, as the escalation in the numbers of cases increased dramatically in their own countries, many quickly realized that tight control must be enforced. It cannot be left to the discretion of the public to choose to follow advice or not. In most cases, people are desperate for clear direction, with sufficient checks and controls deployed to keep them safe. Testing is deemed to be one of the highest priorities in order to establish the extent of the problem, followed by controlled isolation and the deployment of sufficient quantities of medical and other personal protective equipment, alongside other necessary resources to combat the spread of the virus. In the case of the Hong Kong SAR, the vast majority of the local residents have been behaving in an exemplary manner for almost two months and implementing personal measures to limit or avoid an escalation. For many, the memory of SARS remains very real as do some of the lessons learned. Unfortunately, there is a small number that still do not feel the need to follow socially acceptable norms, even under present circumstances. They pay little heed to recommended guidelines, medical or official advice. These people are indiscriminately putting the lives of others at risk and this is simply not acceptable. The concept of selfisolation or selftesting is a difficult one to seriously rely upon, although it no doubt ticks a few boxes on a checklist somewhere. Unfortunately, human nature being what it is means that there will always be those who try to circumvent the restrictions or guidelines. It is still far too common to walk through parts of Central or Discovery Bay and see people not wearing face masks. While they are rapidly reducing in numbers, the face mask debate continues. But surely it is not too much to expect people to observe the wearing of masks even if only as a matter of common courtesy to fellow Hong Kong citizens and in an effort to increase overall levels of hygiene. However, it remains the responsibility of the government to put in place strict measures that protect the community, are sufficiently robust, and are properly enforced to be genuinely effective in combating the pandemic. Anything less simply prolongs the agony and distress throughout the community, increases distrust in the authorities, and exacerbates the economic turmoil. The idea of instructing people entering Hong Kong to selfisolate or selftest without effective checks and measures in place is unacceptable and simply prolongs an inevitable rise in the numbers of cases. If these people are considered highrisk for whatever reason, they should be treated accordingly upon arrival or detection. The concept of selfisolation carries too high a level of risk unless it is accurately monitored and strictly enforced. Many residents are very concerned that people arriving in Hong Kong can happily jump into a taxi or take some other form of public transport en route to their homes or places of selfisolation. Why this is allowed and deemed acceptable is alarming. There are a plethora of buildings across the public and private sectors that could be utilized and rapidly mobilized for the purpose of strict quarantine protocols. Law enforcement in relation to COVID also appears to be pretty light. More recent measures to curb bars and restaurants from selling alcohol are yet another halfmeasure. This is a perfect example of where these outlets should be closed for the required  days and financial support deployed to compensate the most vulnerable. Thankfully, a number have taken it upon themselves in the interests of public health and safety to selfregulate and close. We need to look no further than our close neighbor, the Macao SAR, which has implemented much stricter measurement and control adhering to painful shortterm protocols to ensure longterm health and stability. In the eyes of many across the international community, the swift, courageous and decisive policies supported by lockdowns implemented by the Chinese mainland and the Macao SAR are being heralded as examples of best practice to combat the COVID pandemic and underpin a solid platform for recovery. In the meantime, despite numerous warnings, many experts believe the destiny of Hong Kong and her people hang precariously in the balance. Concerns are growing that COVID will be the final act in a process that will derail the city from its oncecoveted position. No doubt the support of our close neighbors will minimize the pain, but the responsibility rests within the Hong Kong SAR to rectify the matter without further delay. The views do not necessarily reflect those of China Daily. ?