Unmasking the resilience of nations manufacturers
2020/4/3 9:40
The speed of Chinas manufacturing industry has again amazed the world, as automobilemakers, smartphone assemblers and electronicitem producers quickly changed tack to churn out medical masks. Theyve successfully assembled highend engineers and technicians to develop maskmaking machines in a couple of days, reflecting the adaptability of Chinese manufacturers. In Shenzhens Longgang district, where more than half a million mobile phones used to roll out each day, the scenario has changed, with a workshop set up a month ago to produce specifically what virtually every country is clamoring for nowadays  face masks. The facility has now emerged as one of the worlds biggest mask producers, with a daily production capacity of  million masks as well as  bottles of hydroalcoholic gel. Vehicles to face masks The company behind it is BYD  a Chinese automaker and one of the nations largest manufacturers of electronics products. It switched to producing medical protection gear in late January as the novel coronavirus outbreak began sweeping across China. But its plans clashed with the start of the annual Spring Festival holiday, making it difficult to obtain maskmaking equipment, and forcing BYD to manufacture its own machines. Chairman and President Wang Chuanfu led a dedicated team of directors from different business divisions and more than , engineers to get the ball rolling in research and development, design and processing. It took the company just seven days to complete the research and development on the maskproduction equipment and manufacturing processes. The workshop used for assembling mobile phones was converted into a purifying room for mask production. And more than  percent of the ,odd components along the assemble line were produced by BYD itself. The highend mobile phones we produce have strict quality and waterproofing requirements. It also comes with our high standards for molds, automated equipment and manufacturing processes, said Zhao Jianping, general manager of BYDs Quality Division. In other words, the equipment we already have offers precision and quality thats much higher than what is commonly required to produce masks, he said. According to quality inspection authorities, the quality of BYDs masks is significantly higher than that of other similar products in the industry. Another manufacturer, bellwether Gree Electric Appliances  one of Chinas largest makers of air conditioners  said it took the company about  days to develop maskmaking machines and put out its first batch of products in the market. Gree Electric Chairperson Dong Mingzhu said the company had set up a subsidiary in February to produce antiepidemic supplies with highstandard purifying rooms and related checking facilities. A building that was used to make electronics components was converted into a face mask factory with an extremely high level of cleanliness. According to Dong, the company had initially planned to make face mask machines instead of masks. During the trial production, we realized the acute shortage of masks in the market, so we immediately turned to producing masks as well. She said the factory could produce about , masks daily, with capacity set to reach  million by the end of March. Extended adaptivity In addition to masks, Gree produces antivirus purifiers specially designed to cope with the coronavirus outbreak, and other medical gear such as protective goggles and infrared radiation thermometers. Weve been developing the technology on antivirus purifiers for a decade, and this time, it took us about two months to finally put the technology to use. The purifier can eliminate the virus in isolation rooms, testing laboratories and offices of medical staff in one hour. Since the Spring Festival holiday, Gree has made about  purifiers that have been used in hospitals in Hubei provinces capital, Wuhan  one of the hardesthit cities in the pandemic  and more are expected to be delivered to schools and nursing homes. In the Guangxi Zhuang autonomous region, it took SGMW  a joint venture between General Motors and Liuzhou Wuling Motors  just one day to complete the structural design of a maskmaking machine and  hours to produce the first one through the joint efforts of  experts and elite technicians. Since late February,  production lines have gone into operation, with a daily output of more than . million pieces. The swift transformation ability of Chinese manufacturers has demonstrated the advanced state of the nations overall manufacturing prowess over the years, said Danny Mu, a principal analyst at Forrester. Although medicalmask production isnt complicated, Mu said hes glad to see the transformation, which showed the importance of adaptability. He believes the industrys integrity and a strong supply chain have played instrumental roles in the process as most of the components in the supply chain can be obtained domestically. gracechinadailyhk.com Left Workers spare no effort to produce face masks at a workshop of BYDs factory in Shenzhen. Right A box of N face masks produced by BYD, a Chinese automaker and one of the nations largest manufacturers of electronics products, is displayed. photos provided to china daily ?