Upheaval leaves sports federations fretting over financial futures
2020/4/3 9:33
? A woman wearing a protective face mask, following an outbreak of the coronavirus disease COVID, walks past the Olympic rings in front of the Japan Olympics Museum, in Tokyo, March , .  The postponement of the Tokyo Olympics and the shutdown of the sporting calendar because of the coronavirus pandemic are going to hit international sports federations hard financially. Many sports that are part of the Games depend heavily on the payouts every four years from the International Olympic Committee IOC. The situation is tense and very gloomy. An assessment will be made, but clearly some posts are under threat, said an official of a major international federation, who asked to remain anonymous. The  international federations IF of the sports that were due to be present at the Tokyo Olympics, would have received substantial sums from the IOC. However, the postponement of the Games until  could lead to a freeze of their payment. We have a lot of IF with substantial reserves, but others work on a different business model, they have income from major events which are suspended, which can be a problem for the cashflow if they dont have enough reserves, said Andrew Ryan, director general of the Association of International Olympic Summer Sports Federations ASOIF, which is responsible for distributing this money. The five additions to the Tokyo Games programkarate, surfing, skateboarding, climbing and baseballsoftballare not eligible. The Olympic payout totaled  million after the Rio Games, four years ago. The Olympic money could be less than for Rio , Ryan warned before addingMy advice is to budget the same as in Rio. The federations receive money on a sliding scale determined by their audience and size. The three largest athletics, swimming and gymnastics can expect approximately  million. For the second tier, which is made up of cycling, basketball, volleyball, soccer and tennis, the sum is  million. For group three, which contains eight sports, including boxing, rowing, judo and table tennis, it is  million. The nine sports in the next level including sailing, canoeing and fencing receive  million. For the three in the last category rugby, golf and modern pentathlon the payout is  million. For the largest associations, such as soccers FIFA which has a . billion nest egg, or basketball body FIBA which has . million Swiss francs  million euros in reserves, IOC aid represents a small proportion of their income. For others, it is vital. Some IF probably dont have the cashflow to survive one year, said Ryan. For most federations, the postponement of the Olympic Games has a domino effect, forcing them to reschedule their own revenuegenerating competitions. The revenues from these events will eventually come in, said Ryan. But this impacts the cashflow. World Athletics has already postponed its  world championships in Eugene, Oregon, to . The International Swimming Federation FINA will have to do the same for its worlds, scheduled for next summer in Fukuoka, Japan, when they would probably clash with the Tokyo Games. One edition of the world championships means for us  million in revenues, said one sports federation official, speaking on condition of anonymity. If this income is postponed, totally or partially, for a year, we will face major problems, especially if the IOC money, originally expected in September, is not paid out. The Singaporebased International Table Tennis Federation has already taken steps, with the executive committee agreeing to reduce their expenses and senior staff offering to take a salary reduction, said marketing director Matt Pound, who nonetheless added Further cuts will take place if needed. Significant loss The ITTF has suspended all its competitions until June and that is costly. Kim Andersen, the Danish president of Londonbased World Sailing, said commercial revenues are not immune. The IOC will eventually pay out its aid, but what weighs most heavily is the uncertainty about whether our competitions will be held and whether our sponsors will be maintained, he said. The IOC is not prepared to go into details of what it plans. It is not possible at this stage to assess the overall impact of the postponement of the Tokyo Olympics, an official told AFP. It all depends on a number of variables that are currently being studied. According to an official of one federation, the IOC will discuss on a casebycase basis, sport by sport. Another option is for the federations to ask for a share of the public aid set up to deal with the coronavirus crisis, in Switzerland, where  ASOIF members are based and also in the United Kingdom, home of World Sailing. Can sports federations benefit from federal aid? The answer is yes, in principle, Philippe Leuba, state councillor of the canton of Vaud, in charge of the economy and sport, told AFP. Agence FrancePresse