UK lockdown could have saved more
2020/4/3 9:04
? A UK government warning is seen at a bus stop as the spread of the coronavirus disease COVID continues in London, Britain, April , .  Spains virus woes added to by major rise in unemployment of , A scientist at the Sanger Institute of genomic health research in Cambridge has said the introduction of an earlier lockdown could have led to a significantly reduced novel coronavirus epidemic in the United Kingdom. Figures released on Thursday revealed that the death toll in Britain had reached ,, an increase of  people on the figure from  hours earlier. In a thread of tweets, research group leader Inigo Martincorena said a simplistic analysis of data he had seen highlighted the importance of lockdown and how much difference could have been made if Prime Minister Boris Johnson had introduced it earlier than he did, on March , two weeks after similar measures were imposed in Italy, Europes worsthit country. The data, he said, suggests that a lockdown one week earlier could have led to an epidemic around three times smaller likely translating into many thousands fewer deaths and the need for a shorter and less disruptive lockdown. Johnson himself remains in selfisolation six days after being diagnosed, as he continues to show symptoms. At the daily Downing Street media briefing, Health Secretary Matt Hancock said . billion pounds . billion of historic National Health Service debts will be written off to enable it to fight the virus better. He said the governments action plan would slow down the spread of the virus, and that it was committed to reaching its midApril target of , tests, and also set a fresh target of , for the end of the month. Pharmacists across the UK could be permitted to hand out controlled drugs without prescription in a bid to ease stress on the NHS. Home Secretary Priti Patel is seeking advice on the risks of lifting restrictions imposed by the Misuse of Drugs Act, although should the rules be changed, they would only apply to people who are already receiving the medication as part of existing treatment. A survey carried out by the British Chambers of Commerce, or BCC, has revealed that almost half of businesses expect to furlough around  percent of their workforce in the next week, which could leave the Treasury with a huge wages bill to pick up. Furloughing is a temporary unpaid leave of absence from work, where workers are not paid by their employers, but their position is kept open for them to return. Under Chancellor Rishi Sunaks job retention scheme, the government will pick up the bill for  percent of wages, up to , pounds per month. In the survey of  companies,  percent said they thought it likely they would be furloughing more than half of their staff in the next week. The crisis has also highlighted how many companies do not have significant financial reserves to call upon, and BCC director general, Adam Marshall, said while he welcomed the governments actions, they needed to happen faster. The coronavirus pandemic has taken a heavy toll on business and economic activity across the UK, he said. While businesses have welcomed the unprecedented size and scope of the government support packages, our findings highlight the urgent need for that support to reach businesses on the ground as soon as possible. The majority of firms cannot wait weeks or months for help to arrive. The countrys feepaying private school sector is also feeling the financial strain, as parents who have lost income cancel their direct debits and parents of overseas pupils reconsider sending their children back to the UK. Some are even offering up to  percent discounts on fees for the summer term, The Guardian reported, as they will only be able to offer distance learning, amid fears that some of the smaller schools may be driven out of business altogether. According to the Independent Schools Council, its member schools have around , overseas pupils, with around , of those being from China. We dont know how many of the children want to come back, and even if they do want to come back, whether they will be able to leave their country, or whether their country is still going to be in lockdown, said Neil Roskilly, chief executive of the Independent Schools Association. The vast majority are saying they want to come back if they can. They just dont know what the situations going to be. Elsewhere, an infectious disease specialist has told a London discussion group that new research from Hong Kong may result in the World Health Organization reappraising its guidelines on the wearing of face masks, as they could be more useful in fighting the spread of the virus than previously believed. Currently, the official policy is that their main benefit is to healthcare workers, to protect them from contracting infections from patients, as many members of the public use them incorrectly. But as the evidence becomes available, it seems there will be a debate trying to decide whether masks play a role at some point in the outbreak, said David Heymann, a WHO advisor. And believe me, if they do, there is a private sector healthy enough to begin producing those masks in quantities necessary. The death toll in Spain has now passed ,, at the same time as newly released figures revealed that March saw Spains highestever monthly rise in unemployment, with almost , people having lost their jobs since the lockdown began. Belgiums death toll has passed ,, and the situation in Italy is even worse. In addition to the death toll as of Thursday having reached nearly ,, Italys main business association has warned that industrial output, which in the first quarter of  suffered its biggest drop in  years, could fall by up to  percent in the second quarter.