Companies making every effort to ensure safety of clients and workers
2020/4/3 8:49
A caregiver of Yijia Shanghai Elderly Service Co visits a senior citizen. Photo provided to chinadaily.com.cn Some  percent of senior citizens who rely on caregivers visiting their homes each day are still using such services during the viral outbreak, according to industry insiders. The remainder, who are largely independent or supported by family members, have stopped doing so. Companies providing such services are working hard to ensure the safety of both the elderly and caregivers. Jiang Yichen, deputy general manager of Yijia Shanghai Elderly Service Co, said Elderly clients relying heavily on our services during the outbreak are usually more vulnerable. Many of them live alone or have chronic diseases or bone fractures, making it difficult for family members to care for them. Before the outbreak emerged, Jiangs company was caring for more than , seniors in Shanghai every day. The number has since fallen to about ,. It ensures that all its caregivers follow strict personal safety protection measures, provide hand sanitizers and dispose of medical waste, both in their own homes and those of the clients they visit. No cases of infection have been reported among Jiangs carers and clients. Caregivers have to go to a district work station every day to collect new supplies of face masks, disposable gloves and detergent. They also have their temperature taken and obtain a sticker, showing that they are healthy and can carry out their duties. Jiang said, Caregivers take the temperatures of all the seniors they work for, and before entering the next clients home, they note the details of both their own temperature and those of the elderly they have visited. With all residential neighborhoods subject to restrictions during the outbreak, caregivers have been given special entry permits. Clients receive instructions on washing their hands thoroughly and on wearing face masks properly, Jiang said. They are also provided with a pack of products, including alcohol swabs and detergent, and shown how to sterilize their home and store such supplies correctly. Jiang cited the case of a senior client, who is more than  years old and had a stroke in midFebruary. The caregiver called an ambulance immediately and offered to accompany the man during the  hours he was hospitalized. After Spring Festival, when employees returned to Shanghai for work service providers ensured that they complied with the  days home isolation measures. Workers at Xiaobo Homecare said they had to report their location twice a day through GPS on their phone. If clients asked them to start working before the isolation period was completed, they had to tell them they could not return to their duties. Sheng Qinqin, head of training at Shanghai Joyway Senior Care Service, said her employees were only allowed to resume work after obtaining a certificate from the local residential community stating they had complied with the day home isolation measures. The company also doublechecks their health status, ensuring they are not running a fever or showing any symptoms of respiratory diseases. As many caregivers have returned to Shanghai, but the number of clients has fallen sharply, Yijia Shanghai Elderly Service Co has launched an employeesharing program with other companies in the industry. As a result, some of these workers are now delivering food or disinfecting workplaces.