Frustrated Fauci warns of pandemic wrong direction
2021/7/27 0:00
WILMINGTON, DelawareThe United States is in an unnecessary predicament of soaring COVID cases fueled by unvaccinated people and the virulent Delta variant, the nations top infectious diseases expert said on Sunday. Were going in the wrong direction, said Anthony Fauci, describing himself as very frustrated. He said recommending that the vaccinated wear masks is under active consideration by the governments leading public health officials. Also, booster shots may be suggested for vaccinated people with suppressed immune systems. Fauci, who also serves as President Joe Bidens chief medical adviser, told CNNs State of the Union that he has taken part in conversations about altering mask guidelines. He noted that some local jurisdictions such as Los Angeles County where infection rates are surging, are already calling on individuals to wear masks in indoor public spaces regardless of vaccination status. Fauci said those local rules are compatible with the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommendation. More than  million people, or  percent of the total US population, are fully vaccinated, according to data from the CDC. Of those eligible for the vaccine, aged  and over, the figure rises to  percent. This is an issue predominantly among the unvaccinated, which is the reason why were out there, practically pleading with the unvaccinated people to go out and get vaccinated, Fauci said. He said government experts are reviewing early data as they consider whether to recommend vaccinated individuals to get booster shots. He suggested that some of the most vulnerable, such as organ transplant and cancer patients, are likely to be recommended for booster shots. COVID cases, deaths and hospitalizations continue to increase among the unvaccinated across the US. As of Monday, the country had more than . million confirmed cases with more than , deaths, according to data from the World Health Organization. Health experts have blamed the recent surges on low vaccination rates and the accelerating Delta variant transmission. The CDC on Sunday reported an uptick in the number of vaccine doses administered in the latest hour period,, the highest number given in a hour period since the US reported giving . million doses on July . However, that number is far below the peak of . million doses reported on April , and the pace of vaccinations is still generally declining. Pfizer and BioNTech said on Friday that the US had purchased  million more doses of their vaccine to help with pediatric vaccinations as well as possible booster shots. Agencies  Xinhua A man receives a COVID test at a mobile testing site in Times Square, New York, on July . WANG YINGXINHUA