People, countries must come together to fight virus
2020/4/2 10:25
Photo by Song ChenChina Daily The world is facing its toughest time in decades. In early January, when China was affected by coronavirus, some countries were so focused on China they forgot to take preventive measures themselves. We know prevention is better than cure. China is now almost recovered, and has started helping other countries with medical equipment and expertise. All suffering countries are looking to China to learn how to deal with this situation. Like China, all people of all countries should do what they can to handle this tough time, in most cases simply by staying home. This virus is so contagious that even one infected person in any corner of the world could cause another spread. So now is the time for all countries of the world to come forward and work together. You can see what happens when people and countries are forced to fend for themselves people hoard necessary goods and create a shortage in supermarkets. In the present situation, many people are losing their jobs and living in uncertainty. So even though governments are requesting people to stay home, some cannot do it. They must go out and earn to get essentials for their loved ones, which is counterproductive in containing this outbreak. So, if the welltodo people come forward and take necessary steps to provide food and other necessities to those in need, it may do a lot to help control the situation. At an earlier time when China was in need of masks, Mohammad Arman Hossain donated  masks to?Chongqing Medical University. Photo provided to chinadaily.com.cn There is a lack of medical equipment and other necessary items in hospitals. This can be sorted out if all come together to help out. Effort from everyone can make a big difference. Along with medical workers and authorities, if everyone can do something to help affected people, things will be easier. More volunteers are needed in some countries, and the young generations here can join and become role models. Last but not least, thanks to the honorable President Xi Jinping, government of Peoples Republic of China, and the people of China for their kindness, unconditional love and effort for the rest of the world, without which the situation would become more dangerous. Mohammad Arman Hossain?is a masters student in urology at Chongqing Medical University. The opinions expressed here are those of the writer and do not represent the views of China Daily and China Daily website.