iFlytek uses AI to assist S. Koreas coronavirus fight
2020/4/2 10:18
The booth of Huawei Technologies Co at the th World Internet Conference  The Light of Internet Expo in Wuzhen, Zhejiang province, on Oct , . Photo by?Zhu XingxinChina Daily Domestic companies expertise in artificial intelligence, G and cloud computing strengthens many nations efforts to save lives As the novel coronavirus outbreak affects peoples lives and work around the world, a post by Otto Sonnenholzner, vicepresident of Ecuador, recently caught the attention of many. Sonnenholzner said in a Twitter post that Ecuador became the first country in Latin America to have an artificialintelligenceenabled auxiliary diagnostic system in two local hospitals. The move is significant, because AI diagnostic systems can help doctors make faster, more accurate decisions on whether patients are infected by deadly viruses, thus reducing the heavy burden on frontline healthcare workers. The AIsystem is offered by Huawei Cloud, the cloud computing unit of Chinese tech giant Huawei Technologies Co, and its partnerBeijingbased AI company Huiying Medical Technology Co Ltd. Zheng Yelai, president of Huawei Cloud, said it took only  hours for Huawei and Huiying to connect the AIenabled system to a hospital in Ecuador. Hospitals in dozens of countries are also contacting Huawei Cloud for possible cooperation. The move is part of broader efforts by Chinese companies to leverage their technological prowess to help foreign nations in the global battle against the pandemic, as confirmed cases of the deadly virus surge overseas. From AI and G to cloud computing, Chinese companieswhich have just emerged from the most difficult period in their own battle against the contagionhave been standing with the world at a time when the pandemic is rapidly spreading worldwide. They are sharing the experience they gathered when helping first contain the epidemic in China, and helping people better study and work at home during selfquarantine periods. The AImedical imaging evaluation system, for instance, has played an active part in Chinas efforts to control the outbreak. Shi Yuxin, deputy head of the Shanghai Public Health Clinical Center, said in an earlier interview that computerized tomography imaging is an important tool in the diagnosis and treatment of the novel coronavirus. AIenabled systems can help classify pneumonia caused by the virus according to its severity, and calculate its burden on peoples lungs. Traditional quantitative analysis performed without AI usually requires up to six hours. But AI systems are able to perform the same task within a minute, Shi said. Huawei Pakistan has also donated a video conference system worth about , to the Ministry of National Health Services, Regulations and Coordination of Pakistan to help the country fight the contagion. Chinese tech giant Lenovo Group Ltd is also scrambling to do what it can to help countries combat the virus. Yang Yuanqing, chairman and CEO of Lenovo, said the company has donated computers to lowincome families and local schools in countries such as India, Brazil and the United States, and Lenovo has provided solutions to support remote healthcare and online learning. In Italy, the hardesthit country in Europe, Lenovo made a charitable donation to the Luigi Sacco Hospital of Milan. The company aims to help treat the more critical among the COVID patients, both on site and at other hospitals. In particular, this means acquiring resuscitation apparatus as well as ambulances and stretchers, setting up pediatric departments to treat children and enhancing emergency rooms. Lenovo and Shenzhen, Guangdong provincebased BGI Genomics are also collaborating with US chip giant Intel Corp to accelerate the analysis of genomic characteristics of the novel coronavirus. Technology and life science healthcare experts from Intel and Lenovo are working together to support BGI researchers with the latest big data analytical technologies and computing resources so as to further advance the capabilities of its sequencing tools, and more effectively analyze the genomic characteristics of the virus. Tong Fuyao, senior vicepresident of Lenovo, said the struggle against the coronavirus outbreak has touched the hearts of the entire world. As the worlds leading PC maker, Lenovo is committed to providing computing support for life science research. Experts in big data analytics and life sciences from Intel and Lenovo will integrate our resources and expertise to help address the critical challenges and drive the development of health and life sciences, Tong said. Chinese doctors provide free consulting service to Chinese and foreign patients through WeDoctors online platform in Hangzhou, capital of Zhejiang province, on March . Photo by?Long WeiFor China Daily In Europefrom the Meuse River and the Dinaric Alps, to Piraeusincreasing numbers of Chinese enterprises and Chinese nationals are standing with local authorities and frontline healthcare workers, mainly by providing muchneeded medical protective gear to help their second homeland, now a new epicenter of the pandemic. Jack Ma, founder of Chinese ecommerce heavyweight Alibaba Group Holding Ltd, said, At such a moment, only by sharing resources and experiences can we overcome the disaster. The Jack Ma Foundation and the Alibaba Foundation have increased efforts to provide support and supplies to affected countries, especially Italy, Belgium, Spain, Slovenia, France, Austria, Denmark, Germany, Ireland and the Netherlands. Africas response to the coronavirus disease outbreak has also received a major boost with the donation of medical equipment, including over . million diagnostic test kits and over  metric tons of infection prevention and control goods by the Jack Ma Foundation and the Alibaba Foundation. The shipment arrived in Addis Ababa, Ethiopiahome to the African Union headquarterson March . A string of Chinese tech companies have also launched platforms where Chinese doctors can offer online medical advice to people overseas. Hangzhou, Zhejiang provincebased digital health company WeDoctor has launched a ChineseEnglish platform, the Global Consultation and Prevention Center, in a bid to integrate medical resources from home and abroad to offer assistance to both Chinese and foreigners. Liao Jieyuan, founder and CEO of WeDoctor, said for the current first phase, the platform has invited nearly , medical professionals from across China. Among them are physicians of respiratory medicine, infectious diseases and general medicine from Agrade hospitals. They are also experienced veterans in Chinas fight against the novel coronavirus outbreak, Liao said. Baidu Health, a direct aid service platform integrating massive professional medical care institutions in China, has also invited over , doctors to its platform to provide hour services for people, including overseas Chinese in hardhit countries. Another internet platform, JD Health, has also launched a global free health consultation platform, bringing together a number of experts and doctors who have rich antiepidemic experience, including  experts of traditional Chinese medicine. JD Health also offers consultation services in English to provide medical help for foreigners. Lu Chuanying, director of the research center for global cyberspace governance, which is part of the Shanghai Institutes for International Studies, said Chinese tech players have showcased their prowess amid the contagion. Chinese tech companies remarkable speed in tweaking existing technologies for application in the virus battle and their ability to devise practical solutions to new problems reflect their desire to shoulder responsibility toward the world, Lu said. Leading Chinese construction machinery manufacturer Sany Group also contributed its part. The company has donated , medical masks to Bedburg, Germany. Written on the boxes was a German proverb, which translates as Mountains and valleys dont come together, but humans do. The masks are destined for hospitals in Bedburg and Essen, both in North RhineWestphalia, one of the German states with the largest number of confirmed coronavirus cases. Martin Knoetgen, CEO of Sany Europe, said During the most difficult time of the COVID outbreak in China, Sany Europes partners and friends in Europe provided great support to the Chinese people. So, with a grateful heart, the Sany Group quickly put together the first batch of , protective masks in China to support the prevention and control of the COVID pandemic in Germany.