The world in photos July
2021/7/26 13:58
Here are some of the most striking images taken from around the world over the past week. A woman wearing a face mask walks past a COVID safety sign in London on July , . As England moved to the final stage of lifting COVID restrictions on Monday, in what has been dubbed Freedom Day, medical experts were reminding the public to exercise caution. Almost all legal restrictions on social contact were removed, and there are now no limits on how many people can meet or attend events, nightclubs have reopened and face coverings will be recommended in some spaces but not required by law.  A military band plays the national anthem in front of the Statue of Air Heroes, built to honor Romanias military aviation heroes, during Aviation Day celebrations in Bucharest, Romania on July , .  Staff members perform an ultrasound scan of female giant panda Huan Huan at the Beauval Zoo in SaintAignansurCher, central France, on July , . Huan Huan, a giant panda at Beauval Zoo, is expecting twins and the birth of the cubs is scheduled for late July or early August, the zoo announced on Friday.  A prototype of the fifthgeneration fighter jet Checkmate on display in a Moscow suburb, on July , . Russia displayed a prototype of its fifthgeneration lightweight singleengine fighter jet Checkmate at the International Aviation and Space Salon  that kicked off here on Tuesday.  Security forces inspect a damaged vehicle from which rockets were fired in Kabul, Afghanistan on July , . Several rockets were fired on Tuesday at the presidential palace in Kabul, but failed to hit the target, officials and media reports said.  A man takes a photo of the Manhattan skyline in a thick haze in New York on July , . Smoke from wildfires in the western US has contributed to the haze, according to local weather services.  Pedro Castillo waves to his supporters in Lima, Peru on July , . The National Jury of Elections of Peru on Monday night officially declared Pedro Castillo presidentelect a month and a half after the June  presidential runoff.  A resident is seen through a damaged house in Pepinster, Belgium on July , . Belgium is affected by floods, and cleanup is under way to help the hardhit regions recover from the destruction.  A photo taken on July ,  shows a wild Sumatran tiger rescued by the West Sumatra Natural Resources Conservation Agency at a palm plantation in the Pasaman Barat region of West Sumatra, Indonesia on July , .  A staff member sprays disinfectant in a community implementing enhanced control orders in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia on July , . Malaysia reported another , new COVID infections, the Health Ministry said on July , bringing the national total to ,.  A man cycles through a flood brought by heavy monsoon rains in Manila, the Philippines on July , .  Japanese tennis player Naomi Osaka poses after lighting the Olympic Cauldron with the Olympic flame during the opening ceremony of the Tokyo  Olympic Games, at the Olympic Stadium in Tokyo on July , . 