Artificial intelligence pioneer leverages tech to raise efficiency
2020/4/2 9:53
? A health worker wearing a protective gear swabs the mouth of a woman as the spread of coronavirus disease COVID continues, in Rome, Italy, April , .  Health chief says nation nears plateau in infections, but deaths spike in region The head of a top health agency in Italy said on Tuesday that the country is nearing a plateau in its coronavirus infection rate and should start to see a decline in new cases. The tinge of optimism came as several other European countries have seen spikes in their COVID death tolls. Europe reported , cases of infection and , deaths as of Tuesday, according to the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control. Italy remains the worst hit country. On Tuesday, Italians observed a minutes silence for the victims of the novel coronavirus pandemic. The number of infections climbed to ,, including , fatalities, as of Tuesday. National Institute of Health President Silvio Brusaferro said at a news conference on Tuesday that the upward curve in the rate of the virus spread seems to be leveling off. It appears we are reaching a kind of plateau, which means our isolation and containment measures are working, Brusaferro said in reference to a national lockdown and strict quarantine measures. Reaching the plateau does not mean weve conquered the peak and the fight is over, but that we must begin the descent. And the descent can begin if we continue paying maximum attention to how we behave and what we do on a daily basis. Even as Italian officials see a glimmer of hope, the United Kingdom suffered its deadliest  hours yet in the outbreak. Figures released on Tuesday revealed that  people had died in the period, taking the total loss of life to ,. Speaking at the daily Downing Street media briefing, Stephen Powis, the national medical director for National Health Service England, said social distancing and reduced public transport use were having a positive effect but the country is not out of the woods yet. Senior cabinet minister Michael Gove added that thousands of ventilators would be rolling off the production lines this weekend and be distributed to the neediest places. As British National Health Service staff continue to battle with the outbreak, Home Secretary Priti Patel said that all overseas NHS workers whose visas are due to expire before Oct  will be given an automatic month extension to enable them to focus fully on combating coronavirus and saving lives. The measure affects around , staff and their families. In France, the cumulative number of infections reached , by Tuesday, with the death tally at ,. Over the  hours reported on, the virus claimed  lives and forced  patients into intensive care units. French President Emmanuel Macron said on Tuesday a consortium of four French industrial groups announced that it will produce , ventilators by midMay to support French hospitals in their fight against the virus. In Germany, confirmed cases on Tuesday increased by , in a single day to ,, while the number of deaths rose to , from  a day earlier, according to the Robert Koch Institute. Institute President Lothar Wieler warned that the mortality rate will increase. Wearing masks The city of Jena in eastern Germany has decided to make people wear face masks when shopping or traveling on public transport, becoming the first city in the country to introduce the measure. Jena has  coronavirus infections and an overall population of about ,. In a weeks time, wearing mouth and nose protection in shops in Jena, on public transport and buildings with public traffic will be compulsory, Jena City Hall said. In Russia, the chief physician of the Kommunarka clinic for coronavirus patients in Moscow, Denis Protsenko, who recently met President Vladimir Putin, has been diagnosed with the virus, the Rossiya news channel reported on Tuesday. Last week, the president visited the medical facility accompanied by Protsenko and Moscow Mayor Sergei Sobyanin. Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said in a statement that Putin is being tested for the coronavirus on a regular basis, and everything is okay. Chen Yingqun in Beijing, Xinhua and agencies contributed to this story. ?