iFlytek banking on thirdparty developers for platform growth
2020/4/2 9:40
A mahjong parlor in Mong Kok shuts down on Wednesday, following the order from the Hong Kong government to close down karaoke lounges, mahjong parlors and nightclubs in the city for two weeks to contain the coronavirus pandemic. PARKER ZHENG  CHINA DAILY The Hong Kong Special Administrative Region government on Wednesday ordered three more types of entertainment venues to close for  days while reporting  new cases of the novel coronavirus, with the youngest patient an infant only  days old. Starting from  pm on Wednesday, Hong Kongs karaoke lounges, mahjong parlors and nightclubs were required to shut down for  days to contain the pandemic. The government also regulated the citys beauty parlors, massage parlors and clubhouses to strengthen COVID prevention measures. People have to wear face masks in these premises, and get their temperatures checked at entrances. The places were also ordered to offer hand sanitizer. Offenders of the two regulations face a maximum penalty of six months imprisonment and a fine of HK, US,. The regulations came after all seven patrons at a karaoke gathering, and an employee at a beauty parlor, were confirmed to be infected with the virus. In addition to five cases confirmed earlier, two more people who had visited a karaoke lounge in Tsim Sha Tsui on March  were also confirmed on Wednesday. The same day, a practitioner at a beauty parlor in Tsim Sha Tsui was found with the virus. The beautician served a customer who later was also confirmed to be infected. The beautician wore a face mask but the customer did not. Talking to the press on Wednesday evening, Secretary for Food and Health Sophia Chan Siuchee said the regulation has been put into effect as those places are infection risks. She explained that it might be hard for customers to wear face masks all the time in beauty parlors. Yet the service providers must do so to minimize the risk of infection, she stressed. The regulation was announced just minutes before it took effect, giving little time for practitioners to make adjustments. Chan defended the decision to issue the new measures so quickly. She said this was common practice when handling public health problems. To allow business operators to adapt to the new regulation, violators will be warned during the initial period of implementation, Chan said. Earlier in the day, all six types of venues were added to the Prevention and Control of Disease Requirements and Directions Business and Premises Regulation. Under the regulation, the government can close listed venues or restrict their operations. The government had earlier ordered closures of leisure venues including gyms, cinemas, game centers, party rooms, bathhouses and playgrounds, starting from Saturday. Public gatherings of more than four people were also banned, restaurants were required to ensure at least . meters of distance between tables. The city recorded  new COVID cases on Wednesday, including a dayold boy, who was hospitalized after getting a fever. The baby is in stable condition. The infants parents have tested negative for the virus, but a female friend of his parents who was later confirmed to be infected had hugged the baby on March . A total of  of the newly confirmed patients had recently traveled outside Hong Kong, including  students returning from overseas, a flight attendant and a pilot.