Latest on the novel coronavirus outbreak
2020/4/2 9:34
Andrey Kravchenko Editors note In this series, we share stories and experiences showing how expats are dealing with the novel coronavirus pneumonia outbreak. Andrey Kravchenko, a Russian who has been living in China for nine years, said that the country impressed him greatly with the strong action taken to protect its people and help prevent the virus from spreading during the coronavirus outbreak. Kravchenko, a former vicemayor of the Russian city of Stavropol and former vicepresident of Energomera Group, has been living in Changzhou, Jiangsu province, with his family since . He said that the city is his second hometown. Kravchenko now works as the general manager of Monocrystal, a photovoltaic technology company. During the novel coronavirus outbreak, he offered advice on the resumption of production to the local government and donated , yuan , to the Changzhou Red Cross. To help employees during the COVID outbreak, the company offered them interestfree loans of , yuan and paid their salaries in advance. An additional subsidy was also allocated to employees who were on duty during the outbreak. Monocrystal resumed production on Feb , and it was among the first companies in the city to do so after the start of the outbreak. The company provided its employees a large amount of disinfectant, goggles and masks to help protect them during the outbreak. It also maintained close contact with suppliers and ensured that sufficient materials could be transported in time to guarantee production. I believe that China contained the coronavirus in relatively a short time, which helped prevent the virus from spreading, said Kravchenko. I also believe that China frankly reported to the world the epidemic situation within the country and has shared its experience to help other countries fight the virus. Kravchenko said that Chinas fight against the virus impressed him greatly and gave him a better understanding of the country and the Chinese people. China is not what it was  years ago, he said. We had many difficulties in establishing the company in China, which has a different language and different laws. Ive received help from many people before and during the outbreak of the coronavirus. Now our life has become normal after the coronavirus was contained effectively in the country, but the virus made me realize deeply that life is short and I should try my best to help others. Kravchenko made a video to encourage the Chinese people when the coronavirus outbreak was at its peak in the nation, in which he said that the key to winning the battle was to maintain order, patience and personal hygiene. If we stand united we can overcome the difficulties, he added. Guo Jun contributed to this story.