Global testing kit shortages open new growth doors for Chinese companies
2020/4/2 7:15
A patient is taken to a hospital in New York on Sunday.  More than , people in the United States have tested positive for the coronavirus as of Wednesday, doubling the number of cases from just five days ago, according to health officials. Most of the cases are in New York, where more than , people have tested positive, including more than , in New York City, according to the state health department. The New York Times reported on Wednesday that a senior Trump administration official said the federal government has nearly emptied its emergency stockpile of protective medical supplies like masks, gowns and gloves, as state governors continue to plea for protective gear for desperate hospital workers. The senior official C who was not identified by name  said the administration still has more than , ventilators ready to be deployed. The official said the Federal Emergency Management Agency has delivered more than . million N masks, . million face shields,  million gloves and , ventilators, exhausting the emergency stockpile. New York states death toll from the coronavirus continued to increase, with  people dying in the latest hour period, Governor Andrew Cuomo said. The virus has killed nearly , people in the state, almost half the US total. That number will continue to go up, Cuomo said at his daily news conference on Wednesday. Cuomo also said that there were , confirmed cases as of Wednesday afternoon, an increase of ,. Models indicate the apex of the coronavirus outbreak in the state will hit roughly at the end of April, which means another month of this, Cuomo said. He said that the model could change over time. Cuomo said projection from the Gates Foundation estimated , US deaths, including , in New York state. What that does say to the rest of the nation is that this is not just New York, Cuomo said. On Wall Street, stocks opened the second quarter of  with a selloff on Wednesday, with investors fearing the impact of the coronavirus on the US economy. The Dow Jones Industrial Average dropped . points, or . percent, to ., marking its worst first day of a quarter. The SP  fell ., or . percent, to close at .. The Nasdaq Composite slid ., or . percent, to close at .. All three indexes have lost at least onequarter of their value since closing at record highs in February.