NEW YORK ROBBED OF ITS HUSTLE AND BUSTLE
2020/4/2 0:00
The city that never sleeps is not only asleep, it is at a standstillrobbed of its hustle and bustle as its estimated . million residents are told to stay indoors to stop the spread of the novel coronavirus. The neversaydie spirit of New Yorkers still exists, but much of what has made the city a place where people want to live and visit has, for now, evaporated. A stayathome mandate has brought it to a halt. On Tuesday, New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio said the death toll from the virus in the city stood at . Hours later, officials reported that , people had died from it. New York state Governor Andrew Cuomo said at a news conference on Tuesday that  people had died in the state since Monday morning, bringing the statewide death toll to ,. He also said the number of cases in the state had risen by  percent overnight to ,, with , in its biggest cityincluding his yearold brother. The new cases in the state make it the global coronavirus epicenter, surpassing Hubei province, which has reported , confirmed cases since December. The number of patients hospitalized in New York City passed , on Tuesday, up  percent from Monday. Of those, , were on ventilators in intensive care. On Monday, the citys ambulances responded to , emergency calls. More than  paramedic and emergency medical technicians, , nurses and  ambulances were heading to the city from across the US to help support a healthcare system that was being buried under an avalanche of coronavirus patients, De Blasio said on Tuesday. The virus is taking a heavy toll on the citys police department, the nations biggest. Nearly , officers, more than  percent of the force, have tested positive, Commissioner Dermot F. Shea said on Tuesday. He added that about  percent of officers were on sick leave, at least four times the normal proportion. Five police department employees have died in the past week. With the exception of ambulances and police cars, vehicles have largely deserted the streets of all five boroughs in the city, especially Manhattan. Normallycrowded subway cars are empty some of them occupied only by the homeless, stretched out asleep. All museums and  Broadway shows have closed, while the annual Easter display of millions of flowers at Macys flagship department store on nowdeserted th Street has been canceled for the first time in  years. The annual auto show at Javits Convention Centernow a field hospital with , beds for patients with noncoronavirus issueshas been called off for the first time since World War II. All the citys restaurants and bars are closed, with many displaying Takeout Only signs. About , people work in bars, restaurants, cafes and on food trucks, earning a total of . billion annually, according to a study last year by the citys comptrollers office. Grocery stores are open. Signs stating No hoarding, Only two to a customer and Use plastic gloves to touch produce remain on empty shelves. Masks on the streets In Manhattan, which reported , confirmed cases on Monday, there are few Uber or Lyft ridehailing vehicles available, and fewer taxis. On the streets, nearly everyone, including a reduced number of joggers, is wearing a face mask. Those with or without masks shooed this reporter away as he approached for interviews. Daffodils are blooming in Manhattans Central Park, but the vendors selling ice cream, hot dogs and pretzels have vanished, along with tourists, horsedrawn carriages and pedicabs. People are scared to come outside, Justin Rahim, a Central Park tour guide, told Fox News. He said several of his pedicab driverswho rely on tourists for a livinghad quit to drive for Ubers food delivery service, adding Its crazy. How am I going to survive this? On the west side of the park, across the street from Strawberry Fieldsdedicated to the memory of John Lennonthere are few lights on at night in the landmark Dakota apartment building where the former Beatle lived, was shot and killed. They residents have fled to the Hamptons or elsewhere, said a doorman, who declined to give his name. One man, who also spoke anonymously, said he had been due to move into the building shortly. He paid  million for an apartment at the rear, but is now going elsewhere. Our apartment isnt ready, so Im taking my family and heading for a rental house in the Catskills, he said, referring to an area nearly  kilometers north of The Dakota. In Central Parks East Meadow, a field hospital opened on Tuesday. A team of  doctors, nurses and other healthcare workers from Samaritans Purse, an evangelical Christian disaster relief organization, erected the facility, where they will work and which is equipped with  ventilators. It will treat patients from Mount Sinai Health System hospitals in Brooklyn and Queens who are not infected with the virus. On Monday, a few blocks north of the Javits Center on the West Side of Manhattan, the Navy hospital ship USNS Comfort docked, dispatched by US President Donald Trump. Like the makeshift hospital, its , beds are also for patients who dont have the virus. The vessel is equipped with surgical rooms, a CAT scan unit, Xray machines, a dental suite and two oxygenproducing plantsmanned by , medical workers. All  medical schools in the city, Long Island and Westchester County will allow their students to graduate early so they can help at inundated hospitals. Only essential workers are allowed to go to their jobs in New York state. All others must remain indoors to curb the spread of the virus and to avoid hospitals becoming overwhelmed. New Yorks political leaders have warned Trump and the public that the situation in the city will worsen this week, with mounting deaths. The virus continues its march across the state, Cuomo said at a news conference on Sunday. I dont see how you look at those numbers and conclude anything less than thousands of people will pass away. On Tuesday, a grimmer Cuomo said Im tired of being behind this virus. Weve been behind this virus since day one. Weve been playing catch up, you dont win playing catch up. We have to get ahead of it. Cuomo reiterated that the state needs many more ventilators. He said it placed an order for , from China for , each, but only expects to receive ,, because California, Illinois and the Italian government also ordered the same ventilators. De Blasio said he has requested , nurses,  respiratory therapists and  doctors from the ranks of both reserve and deployed military personnel to help when a wave of new cases arrives. He said the federal government has supplied , ventilatorsa crucial resource during the pandemicbut the city needs , as soon as possible. Supplies flown in Cuomo and officials at all levels of government are acquiring ventilators and other supplies from China, where newly built factories are producing vital goods as the outbreak in the country eases. A commercial aircraft carrying  tons of gloves, masks, gowns and other medical supplies from Shanghai landed in New York on Sunday, the first of  scheduled flights that White House officials say will funnel muchneeded goods to the US by early this month. Lizzie Litzow, a spokeswoman for the Federal Emergency Management Agency, said the plane delivered , N masks, . million other masks and gowns,  million gloves and thousands of thermometers for distribution in New York, New Jersey and Connecticut. De Blasio has warned of even more devastating days ahead. I still fear the worst is not going to be April, but actually the beginning of May, he said. I guarantee you that April is going to be exceedingly tough, and we have to understand that any projection of things being all OK by Eastertheres just no way thats true for New York City. He was referring to Trumps statements last week that he wanted the US economy back up and running by EasterApril . It would be a beautiful time, Trump said. On Sunday, the president said he realized this would not be possible, given the continuing spread of COVID. He extended social distancing guidelines to April . New York City residents who breach social distancing rules, which require them to keep  feet . meters apart, will be subject to fines of up to , de Blasio said on Sunday. Youve been warned and warned and warned again, the mayor said during a news conference. On Tuesday, he said he closed  playgrounds across the city after residents failed to adhere to the guidelines. Social distancingor the need for more of itreportedly led to the death of an yearold woman. She died after being pushed to the floor in a Brooklyn hospital for not keeping a sufficient distance, the New York Post reported on Sunday. The woman, who was pushed by a female patient, fell back and hit her head on the floor. She died about three hours after the incident. The patient was issued with a summons. White tents erected outside some city hospitals after  have reappeared, along with refrigerated trucks. The tents block views of the dead on stretchers being placed in trucks because hospital morgues are full. On Sunday, Trump described the scene at Elmhurst Hospital in his native borough of Queens. Ive been watching that for the last week on television, he said. Body bags all over, in hallways. Ive been watching them bring in trailer trucksfreezer trucks, theyre freezer trucks, because they cant handle the bodies, there are so many of them. This is essentially in my community, in QueensQueens, New York. Ive seen things that Ive never seen before. Last week, the virus killed  patients at the hospital in one day. On Monday, the Federal Emergency Management Agency said it was sending an estimated  refrigerated trucks to the city to collect the bodies of disease victims as morgues struggle to keep up. FEMAs regional director, Thomas Von Essen, a former New York City Fire Department commissioner who was in office during the  attacks, said there is a desperate need for morgue space, particularly in Queens, It is the hardesthit borough, with , cases reported on Monday. The Department of Defense Mortuary Affairs is sending  staff members to help in the Manhattan medical examiners office. A man living near a medical center in Brooklyn told the Politico website about a refrigerated truck outside the facility. Marc Kozlow said We leave our windows open and we hear the hum of the refrigerator going all night long. Its disturbing to know whats in there. Praise for governor Governor Cuomo, , another political leader born in Queens, has been described as a hero by national and international media. His morning news conferences each day, broadcast live on radio and several television stations in the city and elsewhere in the country, have become mustsees for those confined to their homes. The news conferences are a combination of facts and morality lessons. Sometimes, Cuomo cracks a joke, and often refers to his father, Mario, who served three terms as governor, from  to . The governors action in fighting the virus has won praise, even from Trump, along with criticism. Trump said this week that Cuomo has good grades for fighting the pandemic, while he, the president, has great grades. On Monday, Trump said Cuomo would be a stronger Democratic opponent in the presidential election in November than Joe Biden. I wouldnt mind running against Andrew. Ive known Andrew for a long time. I wouldnt mind that, but Ill be honest, I think hed be a better candidate than Sleepy Joe, Trump said. In a lengthy, flattering piece about Cuomo, Maureen Dowd, a writer for The New York Times, stated, To the surprise of many who did not associate the name Andrew Cuomo with the word empathy, the governor has become a sort of national shrink, talking us through our fear, our loss, and our growing stircraziness. Dowd asked him if was interested in running for the White House. Cuomo replied No. I know presidential politics. I was there in the White House with Bill Clinton. I was there with Al Gore. No, Im at peace with who I am and what Im doing. On Tuesday, Cuomos brother, Chris, said he tested positive for the coronavirus after being exposed to people who are infected. The CNN anchor said he is working from the basement of his house, where he has isolated himself from his wife and children. Andrew Cuomo said in a statement This virus is the great equalizer. Stay strong little brother. You are a sweet, beautiful guy and my best friend. aihepingchinadailyusa.com ? A man passes through a deserted Times Square in New York on Sunday. SETH WENIGAP ? ? Governor Andrew Cuomo, right, visits a nearly completed makeshift hospital erected by the US Army Corps of Engineers at the Jacob Javits Convention Center on Friday. DARREN MCGEEOFFICE OF GOVERNOR ANDREW M. CUOMOAP ? ? Refrigerated trucks are used as makeshift morgues at Bellevue Hospital on Tuesday. EDUARDO MUNOZREUTERS ? ? Healthcare workers, passengers and crew aboard a flight from Atlanta to New York hold their hands in the shape of a heart before departure. DAYARTRA ETHERIDGEAP ? ? People wait for a COVID test in New York on March . JOHN MINCHILLOAP ? ? A patient is taken to a hospital in New York on Sunday. GUO KEXINHUA ? ? The USNS Comfort passes the Statue of Liberty as it enters New York Harbor on Monday. ANDREW KELLYREUTERS ? ? American Airlines employees wait for passengers to check in at LaGuardia Airport on March . MARY ALTAFFERAP ? ? A woman protects herself while exercising in Hudson River Park on Friday. STEFAN JEREMIAHREUTERS ? ?