UN chief calls pandemic greatest test since WWII
2020/4/2 0:00
The novel coronavirus pandemic is the most challenging crisis since World War II, United Nations SecretaryGeneral Antonio Guterres has warned. Speaking at UN headquarters in New York City, Guterres said, The new coronavirus disease is attacking societies at their core, claiming lives and peoples livelihoods. COVID is the greatest test that we have faced together since the formation of the United Nations, he added. As of Wednesday, the total number of confirmed novel coronavirus infection cases in  countries and regions was more than ,, and over , virusrelated deaths were reported, according to the World Health Organization. The UN chief called for an immediate, coordinated health response to suppress transmission and end the pandemic. Guterres urged the industrialized nations to help lessdeveloped nations, or potentially face the nightmare of the disease spreading like wildfire. The UN report estimated that up to  million jobs could be lost around the world as the result of the outbreak. It also projected downward pressure of up to  percent on global foreign direct investment flows. As the coronavirus death toll surged past , in the United States on Tuesday, President Donald Trump warned Americans they would have a very tough two weeks ahead, urging everyone to follow federal social distancing guidelines through the end of April. US public health experts projected , to , people could die in the US even if Americans follow socialdistancing guidelines. Its absolutely critical for the American people to follow the guidelines for the next  days. Its a matter of life and death, Trump said. About three out of four Americans are now, or are about to be, under some form of lockdown, as more US states tighten measures to fight the coronavirus. In a reversal from the current US government directive, Trump said on Monday that he could foresee a scenario in which the wearing of masks is recommended for Americans. The United Kingdom suffered its deadliest hour period of the outbreak, with figures released on Tuesday showing that  people had died in the previous  hours, taking the total loss of lives there to ,. Stephen Powis, the national medical director for National Health Service England, said at the daily Downing Street media briefing that social distancing and reduced use of public transportation were having a positive effect, but the country is not out of the woods yet. Home Secretary Priti Patel announced that all NHS staff members from overseas whose visas were due to expire before Oct  would be given an automatic month extension to enable them to focus fully on combating coronavirus and saving lives. The measure affects around , staff members and their families. In Russia, a military transport plane took off from an airfield outside Moscow early on Wednesday and headed for the United States with a load of medical equipment and masks to help the US fight the coronavirus, according to Reuters, which quoted the Russian news channel Rossiya . Russian lawmakers have passed an antivirus package of laws that include up to seven years in prison for serious violations of quarantine rules, the BBC reported. In India, authorities are searching for hundreds of people who attended a religious event in the capital that has set off several COVID clusters, the BBC said. Italy, meanwhile, is easing a measure put in place to fight the coronavirus outbreak after weeks of restrictions on public life, Bloomberg reported. The country will allow individual parents to take children outside for a walk close to home, Italys Interior Ministry said in a statement on Tuesday, describing the decision as a clarification of earlier measures. Previously, such walks were not permitted. The move drew immediate criticism from health officials struggling to contain the pandemic, which has claimed , lives in Italy, Bloomberg said. Zhao Xu in New York and Julian Shea in London contributed to this story. Contact the writers at williamhennellychinadailyusa.com ? Workers convert ExCel London, an exhibition center, into a temporary hospital on Tuesday to help tackle the novel coronavirus outbreak in the United Kingdom. STEFAN ROUSSEAUPOOLREUTERS ? ?