Vietnam declares COVID nationwide epidemic
2020/4/1 17:24
Workers make face masks on production lines at a workshop of SAICGMWuling SGMW, a major Chinese automobile manufacturer in Liuzhou City, south Chinas Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region, Feb. , . XinhuaYang Chi One of my best European friends, a renowned scholar on ChinaEurope relations and many other areas related to European affairs, sent me his newlypublished article about the battle against COVID. In the article he writes, Chinese attempts to use the crisis to increase their presence in Europe and Americawill be viewed with a lot more suspicion this timeWithin the EU, at least, Beijings charm offensive will therefore not really change the image of China as a power whose assertions always have to be taken with a pinch of salt. What he says is only his own judgement on the sentiment in Europe. Sadly, these days this sentiment is on the rise in Europe and America. Apparently, this kind of sentiment is a reflection of the misunderstanding and misjudgment of Chinas actions to other countries efforts to overcome the global health crisis. COVID, which is ravaging every corner of the globe now, has dealt a heavy blow to the world economy and caused serious disruptions to the daily life of hundreds of millions of people. Worse, more than , people have lost their lives as of March . China is the first victim of the coronavirus. Thanks to the governments decisive action and strong support from many foreign countries, China is witnessing a welcome end to the pandemic. According to a saying in Chinese culture, the grace of dripping water should be reciprocated by a gushing spring. When China was fighting the coronavirus, many countries, including some European countries, rushed to offer cash or other donations. Now it is Chinas turn to help others with their wars against the pandemic. Everyone knows that the COVID is a kind of nontraditional security threat. One of the most effective ways of dealing with this threat is to strengthen international cooperation as the virus spreads ferociously around the world. As a rising global power, China should undertake responsibility in an effort to strengthen this kind of cooperation. It is reported that China has sent doctors and medical supplies such as masks and respirators to many countries. A friend in need is a friend indeed. As a matter of fact, the pandemic also heightens the importance of building what Chinese President Xi Jinping describes as a community of shared future for mankind. As my friend writes in his article, Viruses do not have a nationality, governments do. Governments around the world should unite to strengthen the power of the mankind to defeat the virus. Chinese people might ask why their selfless action is misunderstood. The explanations might be twofold On the one hand, there is the mistaken belief that China wants to redeem itself because of the earlier socalled coverup on the other, there is a pair of tinted lenses which views whatever China does as wrong. From the U.S. Secretary of State, Mike Pompeo, to international media outlets, China is criticized for trying to cover up the emergence of the coronavirus. In reality, however, China reported to the WHO office in Beijing as early as on December , . On January , , WHO said that China had shared the genetic sequence of the novel coronavirus, which is of great importance for developing specific diagnostic kits. The tinted lenses, characteristic of ideological bias and coldwar mentality, often views China as posing a threat to the world. As a result, whatever China does is wrong. That is to say, if China is more generous, suspicion will arise that it wishes to achieve some political purposes by means of a charm offensive. If China contributes less, it will also be criticized for a lack of generosity. After Haiti was hit by an earthquake in early , for instance, many countries pledged to help rebuild the Caribbean nation. China agreed to donate . million U.S. dollars. An article published by The Miami Herald on April , , criticized China for contributing too little. China should be ashamed of its aid to HaitiIf China wants to be a wellrespected world power, it should be a better global citizenIts time for China to try to earn other countries respect as a trusted partner and a good global citizen, like other big countries do, commented the newspaper. When a typhoon hit the Philippines in November , China announced that it would offer assistance in the amount of , U.S. dollars. The New York Times linked the amount of donation to the frosty relations between the two countries. It seems that in those times, many wanted to see China become more generous. But when China started to offer more help, all of sudden, its motives invited suspicion. Indeed, if you wish to beat a dog, you can easily find a stick. The battle against the COVID is still going on in many countries. To gain an early victory, all the nations should join hands. Chinas willingness to help others should be encouraged, not criticized. To paraphrase a Chinese proverb, a mans kind heart should not be regarded as the liver and lung of a donkey.