Artisanal green tea revives spring heritage
2020/4/1 14:53
Businessman Luca Zhou, , wearing a face mask is seen on the streets of Prato, home to the biggest Chinese community, in Italy March , .? FLORENCE  In the storm of infection and death sweeping Italy, one big community stands out to health officials as remarkably unscathed  the , Chinese who live in the town of Prato. Two months ago, the countrys Chinese residents were the butt of insults and violent attack by people who feared they would spread the coronavirus through Italy. But in the Tuscan town of Prato, home to Italys biggest single Chinese community, the opposite has been true. Once scapegoats, they are now held up by authorities as a model for early, strict adoption of infectioncontrol measures. We Italians feared that the Chinese of Prato were to be the problem. Instead, they did much better than us, said Renzo Berti, top state health official for the area, which includes Florence. Among Chinese resident in Prato there isnt even one case of COVID contagion, he said, referring to COVID, which has killed almost , people in Italy, more than in any other country. Chinese make up about a quarter of Pratos population, but Berti credits them with bringing down the entire towns infection rate to almost half the Italian average   cases per , inhabitants versus  for the country. Pratos Chinese community, built originally around the textile industry, went into lockdown from the end of January, three weeks before Italys first recorded infection. Many were returning from new year holidays in China. They knew what was coming and spread the word stay home. So as Italians headed to the ski slopes and crowded into cafes and bars as normal, the Chinese inhabitants of Prato had seemingly disappeared. Its streets, still festooned with Chinese New Year decorations, were semideserted, shops shuttered. There is some anecdotal evidence that Chinese people elsewhere in Italy took similar precautions, though national data on infection rates among the community is unavailable. The health ministry did not respond to an email seeking comment. Milan restaurateur Francesco Wu, a representative of Italian business lobby Confcommercio, said he urged Italian counterparts in February to shut down their businesses, as he had done. Most of them looked at me like a Cassandra, he said. No one could believe it was happening here ... Now Troy is burning and we are all locked inside. ITALIAN FRIENDS LOOKED AT ME ODDLY When Chineseborn businessman Luca Zhou flew home from China on Feb  to rejoin his wife and yearold son in Prato, he put himself straight into quarantine in his bedroom for  days, separated from his wife and son. We had seen what was happening in China and we were afraid for ourselves, our families and our friends, said the yearold, who has a business exporting Italian wine to China. After emerging from his selfquarantine, he ventured outside in mask and gloves. He said the few other Chinese on the streets also wore them, anxious not to spread the virus to others. My Italian friends looked at me oddly. I tried many times to explain to them that they should wear them ... but they didnt understand, Luca said. When I came back to Prato, no Italian authority told me anything. We did it all by ourselves. If we had not done it, we would all be infected, Chinese and Italians. In Prato, there was a boom in takeup, said local health director Berti, saying families had been obliged to contact his authority if they wanted to pursue this option. It was then that he began to realize how differently the Chinese were behaving. More than  families, or around , people, registered as having put themselves into selfisolation and also signed up to his authoritys health surveillance scheme, which monitored symptoms remotely and communicated with them in Chinese. As Italian infections began to take off in late February and early March, some families, many of whom retain Chinese citizenship, even began sending children to relatives in China, alarmed at the attitude and behavior of Italians around them. Another who went into selfisolation after returning home from China was yearold university student Chiara Zheng. I was conscious of the gravity of the situation. I felt a duty to do it for other people and those close to me. Reuters