Thai cafe serves coffee on wheels to maintain social distance
2020/4/1 14:17
People wear face masks near a bus stop on a street in Beijing, on March , .  A total of  new confirmed cases of coronavirus infections and seven deaths were reported on Tuesday on the Chinese mainland, bringing the two numbers up to , and , respectively, the commission said. With only one locally transmitted case in Guangdong province, the rest of the infections were all imported cases, bringing the tally to  as of Tuesday midnight, said the commission on Wednesday. Of the  imported cases,  patients were still being treated, including  severe cases, while  patients had been discharged from hospitals after recovery by the end of Tuesday, with no deaths reported. With another  new suspected cases reported Tuesday, a total of  people are still suspected of being infected with the virus, it added. Also on Tuesday,  people were discharged from hospitals after recovery, while the number of severe cases decreased by  to . A total of , people had been discharged from hospitals after recovery as of Tuesday midnight. Health authorities on the mainland have traced , people with close contact with patients, adding that among them, , were discharged from medical observation Tuesday, with , others still under medical observation. The Chinese mainland also reported  new asymptomatic cases on Tuesday, along with  discharged from medical observation. So far, a total of , asymptomatic patients infected with the virus have been put under medical observation, according to the commission. By the end of Tuesday,  confirmed cases including four deaths had been reported in Hong Kong,  confirmed cases in Macao, and  in Taiwan including five deaths. And  patients in Hong Kong,  in Macao and  in Taiwan have been discharged from hospitals after recovery. Hubei province, the hardesthit region on the Chinese mainland, reported one imported case and saw six new fatalities on Tuesday. The latest report brought the number of total confirmed cases in the province to , and total deaths to ,. The province also saw  patients discharged from hospitals after recovery on Tuesday, bringing the total number of discharged patients in the province to ,, it said, adding that Hubei had zero suspected cases as of Tuesday midnight.