CDC may back wearing masks against COVID, even for vaccinated Fauci
2021/7/25 19:22
FILE PHOTO A woman receives a dose of a coronavirus disease COVID vaccine, as South Africa rolls out the coronavirus disease COVID vaccination to the elderly at the Munsieville Care for the Aged Centre outside Johannesburg, South Africa on May , .  For the first time after eight consecutive weeks of surging COVID cases, Africa has reported reduced infection numbers. According to data from the Africa Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, between July  and , the continent reported , new cases, translating to a  percent decrease from the previous week. The World Health Organization attributed the new development to a sharp drop of cases in South Africa, which accounts for the bulk of the continents reported cases. During the week ending July , South Africa recorded , new cases compared to ,  cases reported in the previous week, according to data from the countrys Department of Health. The drop in cases could be as a result of the strict day lockdown reimposed in the country on June  to combat the devastating COVID third wave. However, the WHO warned that South Africas gains remain uncertain as protests have disrupted the countrys response, including disease surveillance and testing. The UN agency said violent mass gatherings also could trigger another rise in cases. Be under no illusions, Africas third wave is absolutely not over. This small step forward offers hope and inspiration but must not mask the big picture for Africa. Many countries are still at peak risk and Africas third wave surged up faster and higher than ever before, Matshidiso Moeti, the WHO regional director for Africa, said in a news briefing on Thursday. The Eid celebrations, which we marked this week, may also result in a rise in cases. We must all double down on prevention measures to build on these fragile gains. Countries must prepare for an increase in cases, especially severe illness and what needs to be done to limit people dying. According to the Africa CDC,  African Union member states are currently experiencing a third COVID wave, of which  are facing a more severe third wave. Algeria and Tunisia are experiencing a fourth COVID wave. Over the past four weeks, the continent reported an overall  percent increase in new cases weekly. Nigeria recorded the highest number of new cases among the most populous countries in the continent, with a  percent average increase weekly, followed by South Africa with  percent and Kenya with a  percent average increase. On the COVID death rate among the most populous countries in the continent over the past four weeks, Kenya reported the highest number with a  percent average increase weekly, followed by South Africa with a  percent average increase and the DR Congo with a  percent average increase. So far, the continent has reported over . million infection cases, accounting for . percent of the total cases reported globally. Africa also has reported more than , deaths, accounting for . percent of deaths reported globally. The continent has recorded a case fatality rate of . percent. Twentyfour countries are currently reporting a case fatality rate similar or higher than the global average of . percent, according to Africa CDC. On vaccination, Africa continues to lag behind with just  million people or . percent of the continents population fully vaccinated so far. According to the WHO, just . percent of the . billion doses given globally have been administered in Africa. African countries must go all out and speed up their vaccine rollouts by  to  times if they are to get all these doses into arms and fully vaccinate the most vulnerable  percent of their people by the end of September, Moeti said. Around . to  million doses are administered each week on the continent, but this needs to rise to  million doses each week at the very least to meet this goal. Moeti said African countries must address the fear of sideeffects, which are major drivers of peoples reluctance to get vaccinated. This includes using political and traditional leaders as vaccine champions, community mobilization efforts and addressing misinformation and disinformation on social media.