China refutes US accusations on next stage of origin tracing
2021/7/24 7:38
Foreign Ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian at a daily news briefing on July , . .gov.cn BEIJING  China on Friday refuted accusations from the United States to the effect that Chinas stance on the next stage of the global origintracing issue was irresponsible and dangerous, replying that the US side has been extremely irresponsible and shameful in its behavior toward its own people and the international community. Spokesperson Zhao Lijian made the remarks at a daily news briefing when asked to comment on the deep disappointment expressed by the White House concerning Chinas stance on the next stage of global origin tracing. Zhao said that some people in the United States have continued to slander and smear China, using the epidemic as an excuse, totally disregarding common sense and taking an arrogant approach to science. China resolutely says no to this, said Zhao. He said that, not only did China take the lead in controlling the domestic epidemic, but it has also offered over  billion masks, . billion protective suits, . billion test kits and large quantities of other epidemicprevention materials to more than  countries and regions around the world. China has also provided more than  million doses of vaccines and has continuously made important contributions to the global fight against the epidemic. China has always maintained an open and transparent attitude on the origintracing issue and has invited WHO experts to China twice. The expert group visited all the places they wanted and met everyone they wanted, said Zhao. Chinas fight against the epidemic can withstand the test of history and the people. However, it is the actions of the United States that have deeply disappointed the international community and its own people, said the spokesperson. The United States has never responded to reports that early COVID cases in the United States may be earlier than the first case currently reported. It is also turning a blind eye to concerns by the international community regarding the US military facility Fort Detrick and  plus US overseas biological laboratories, said Zhao, adding that this is the most dangerous attitude. Zhao said that viruses are the common enemy of mankind, and origintracing is an important and complex scientific issue that needs the cooperation of scientists from all over the world, as well as the joint efforts and cooperation of the governments and people of all countries. He stressed that stigmatizing other countries using the epidemic and politicizing the origintracing issue will only provoke strong dissatisfaction and resolute opposition from the international community, and will never succeed.