Mask revolt flying high as air rage soars in US
2021/7/24 7:19
Covid information is displayed at an international terminal at John F. Kennedy Airport JFK on January ,  in New York City.  Several US airlines have reported that a growing number of unruly passengers have spat on other passengers, attacked flight crews and, in one case, even tried to open a door midflight as more people fly again after the worst of the pandemic in the United States. This year, the Federal Aviation Administration, or FAA, had reported , incidents of passengers behaving badly by midJuly. At least  Transportation Security Administration, or TSA, agents have been attacked at checkpoints, two on Monday. The FAA has opened cases into  of the incidents. This years airrage incidents are up from those reported in , when the agency launched investigations into  unruly passengers. In , it was . Some , of the disturbances have been caused by passengers who wouldnt comply with federal law that a mask be worn on airplanes during the pandemic, according to the Association of Flight Attendants. The FAA fined a passenger , this month for refusing to follow the mask mandate on a flight in February. Darby LaJoye, the TSAs acting administrator, told a House of Representatives Homeland Security subcommittee on Tuesday that  of  assaults had been reported since May. Last month, a passenger in Denver bit two TSA officers. It has become so bad that flight attendants are being retrained in key selfdefense techniques. Sara Nelson, president of the Association of Flight Attendants, said in a June letter to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and the TSAThis year, the rate of documented disruptive passenger incidents is at an alltime high and just last week TSA announced that, starting in July , it will resume its voluntary classes in selfdefense training for flight attendants and pilots. Union safety representatives consistently report that most disruptive passenger incidents currently involve noncompliance with mask policies, and often a contributor to the incidents is alcohol consumption. The FAA rolled out a zerotolerance policy in January after a spate of violent incidents on airplanes. The agency said that it historically had dealt with unruly passengers with a variety of methods, ranging from warnings and counseling to civil penalties. Zerotolerance On July , the FAA assessed , in civil penalties against passengers for alleged violations of federal regulations as part of its zerotolerance effort. At least nine passengers were hit by fines ranging from , to , for allegedly interfering with flight attendants who instructed passengers to obey cabin crew instructions and federal regulations. The cases involved assaulting the flight crew and other passengers, drinking alcohol brought aboard the plane and refusing to wear face masks. On July , a passenger on an American Airlines flight was ducttaped to her seat after she allegedly attacked the flight crew and tried to open the door of the aircraft in midflight. In a stark video posted to social media, the woman can be seen with tape over her mouth and arms. Witnesses said that the woman had become unruly about an hour into the twohour flight. Wearing a mask in the US to combat COVID became highly political during the presidency of Donald Trump. Marjorie Taylor Greene, a Republican US representative from Georgia, compared mask wearing in the House to the ways Nazis controlled Jewish people during the Holocaust. The TSA will enforce the mask mandate on airplanes until midSeptember. Nelson saidMasks not only help to protect more vulnerable passengers from the Delta variant, but they also help to protect passengers and crew members who are unable to get vaccinated for valid medical reasonsbut still need to fly.