Liberian agency for refugees extols China for antiepidemic supplies
2021/11/6 17:54
Liberia Refugee Repatriation and Resettlement Commission has extolled China through its embassy in Monrovia for the donation of antiepidemic supplies to the agency and the UNHCR, the United Nations Refugee Agency. At the donation of the items this week, Festus Logan, head of the commission, thanked the Chinese government for what he called valuable humanitarian assistance, for refugees in the country. Logan expressed hope that China would as well provide capacitybuilding training, including assisting the entity in agriculture. The donation includes  cartons of instant noodles,  pieces of surgical face masks,  soccer balls,  radios,  mediumsized white boards,  smallsized white boards, and  essential balms. Chinese Ambassador to Liberia Ren Yisheng, who attended the handover ceremony held at the Chinese embassy, commended the LRRRC and the UNHCR for their efforts to resettle and protect refugees in the country. Ren outlined that maintaining peace and stability, promoting prosperity and development, including carrying out international cooperation, are the keys to solving the refugee problem. China, he said, firmly supports the peace building and economic and social development of Liberia, and also firmly upholds the core role of the United Nations in international affairs. He said that China is willing to continue to deepen pragmatic cooperation with Liberia under the guidance of the concept of a community with a shared future for mankind, and would provide assistance within its capacity for the resettlement and integration of refugees into society and the development of various fields in Liberia. Roseline Okoro of UNHCR also thanked China for its firm stance in supporting the relevant work of the United Nations and the generous assistance to help refugees in Liberia, especially child refugees, during the COVID pandemic. Okoro expressed willingness to continue to deepen cooperation with China in multilateral fields and jointly promote the development of Liberia in various fields.