Black, Hispanic populations among hardest hit by COVID UM study
2021/7/23 10:00
People wearing face protective masks walk on Hollywood Blvd during the outbreak of the coronavirus disease, in Los Angeles, on March , .  CHICAGO  Deaths from all causes combined increased dramatically early in the COVID pandemic for certain demographic groups in the United States, particularly for Black and Hispanic people, even when accounting for socioeconomic factors, according to a study posted on the website of University of Michigan UM on Wednesday. The study analyzed national numbers from the US Census Bureau, which provide a more detailed and indepth look at how different factors such as ethnicity, occupation, living situation, income and insurance status can interact to affect death rates. The researchers studied people aged , comparing mortality figures from the second quarter of , when the pandemics first wave was in high gear, to the second quarter of . The researchers found significant increases in mortality among all the subgroups they studied, but the sizes of the increase varied considerably. Across all socioeconomic groups, nonHispanic Black adults under  experienced significantly higher increases in mortality than nonHispanic white people in the same age range. For example, nonHispanic Black people in the highest income group studied had an increase in mortality more than . times larger than the increase in mortality experienced by the poorest nonHispanic white people, which is . deaths per , people compared to .. Hispanic residents tended to see significantly higher mortality increases than nonHispanic white residents. This held true among people with insurance, those not living in group quarters, lowerincome families, people with workfromhome options, and those in essential industries. People under  living in nursing facilities or other health group quarters experienced an increase in mortality of , deaths per , residents. Those in correctional facilities experienced an increase of . deaths per ,. This compared to an increase of . deaths per , among people not living in group quarters. Uninsured people had an increase of . deaths per ,, compared to an increase of . deaths among the insured. People with family income at or below the poverty line saw an increase in mortality of . deaths per ,, compared to . among those with incomes four times the poverty level or higher. Mortality rates increased by . deaths per , among people in occupations without workfromhome options, compared to . among those able to work from home. Among specific occupations, mortality increases were highest among installation, maintenance and repair workers production workers legal professions and transportation workers. In contrast to previous studies, the researchers did not find exceptionally high death rates among health care practitioners or foodservice workers. The new results underline questions about longestablished health inequities in the United States, the researchers said. The study has been published online by the journal Health Affairs.