Life expectancy declines in United States due to virus
2021/7/23 7:02
People wear masks, as cases of the infectious Delta variant of coronavirus disease COVID continue to rise, in Washington Square Park in New York City, US, July , .  Life expectancy in the United States declined by about a year and a half in , the largest annual decline since World War II, with the COVID pandemic largely to blame, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said on Wednesday. For the total population, life expectancygenerally a reliable measure of a nations healthdeclined from . years in  to . years in . Coronavirus deaths contributed to  percent of the decline, according to data released by the CDC. Life expectancy has been increasing gradually every year for the past several decades, Elizabeth Arias, a CDC researcher who worked on the report, told Reuters. The decline between  and  was so large that it took us back to the levels we were in . Its sort of like we lost a decade. The report also reflects the disproportionate impact of COVID based on race, ethnicity and gender. Latinos, who have a longer life expectancy than both black and white people, saw the biggest decline of three years, from . years in  to . years in . African Americans lost . years of life expectancy, from . years in  to . in , while there was a decrease of . years among white Americans to . years. The report didnt include data for Asian Americans. COVID was responsible for  percent of the decline in life expectancy for the Hispanic population, the report said. For the black population, which saw life expectancy reach its lowest level since , the virus contributed to  percent of the decline. For the white population, which saw life expectancy reach the lowest level since , COVID contributed to  percent of the fall. We were sounding the alarm early on, and I think the data reflects directly the longstanding structural racism in this country and how that disproportionately impacts black and Hispanic communities. It impacts where they live, work and play and ultimately impacted the risk of dying from COVID, Chantel Martin, an assistant professor of epidemiology at the Gillings School of Global Public Health at the University of North Carolina, told USA Today. Disparities in life expectancy between men and women also widened in , with women now expected to live . years, or . years longer than mensix months more than in . Life expectancy wont recover to prepandemic levels in  and could decline further if a new COVID variant emerges that vaccines cant protect against, Arias told The Wall Street Journal. An increase in drug overdose deaths was also a factor in declining life expectancy. The CDCs National Center for Health Statistics last week released interim data showing that US drug overdose deaths rose nearly  percent in  to , people, the highest number of such deaths reported in a single year. Other contributing causes of death include homicide, diabetes and chronic liver disease and cirrhosis, the report noted. According to the data from the United Nations Population Division, life expectancy in the US ranked th worldwide last year, below most other highincome countries.