Ban on Chinese products backfires
2021/7/22 7:05
SONG CHENCHINA DAILY Media outlets across the world have covered the landmark speech Xi Jinping, general secretary of Communist Party of China Central Committee, delivered on July  to mark the th anniversary of the founding of the CPC. Some of the most prominent English language dailies, which were also the first to publish commentaries on Xis speech, initially called it defiant and belligerent in nature, which they now blame on a few quintessential Chinese expressions lost in translation. Since then more balanced and rounded analyses of Xis speech have emerged. Given that only a thin line separates pride and arrogance, the inordinately large spectrum of China watchers crystalgazing the Partys centennial celebrations was bound to produce such initial variations. Another important point is whether Xis July  speech will replace his speech at the th National Congress of the CPC in October  as the guiding principle of Chinas future course of development. This has become a new material for China watchers to read the tea leaves to forecast Chinas future trajectories and their wider implications. Top of the line in the hourlong speech was Xis noticeable use of his favored expression rejuvenation of the Chinese nation he used it  times. But his more subtle exposition covered scores of other important points celebrating, understandably, the successes of the CPC to assert the new thesis of the inevitability of the Partys absolute leadership without which New Chinas march to become a green, beautiful, modern socialist country would come to a halt. The speech also signals the heralding of a new era symbolized by the Chinese Dream that implies making efforts to build a worldclass armed forces by , and finally emerge as a developed country by  the centenary year of the founding of the Peoples Republic. Indeed, China has already completed its first centennial goal of eradicating absolute poverty by the end of last yearand building a moderately prosperous society in all respectsa full  years ahead of the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals target of . While covering the celebrations to mark the th anniversary of the CPCs founding, the world media must have noticed not one among the more than , people and top leaders of China gathered at the Tiananmen Square to mark the main event were wearing face masks. This is being read by many as China announcing its success in containing the COVID pandemic and addressing its related healthcare crisis and economic slowdown. China already emerged as an exception last year by being the only major economy to largely contain the pandemic and achieve positive economic growth of . percent. In the first quarter of this year, China realized a stunning  percent growthhighest since although from a low base. As such, a very different and more confident Xi Jinping might join the other world leaders at the G Summit in Rome in October and the UN Climate Change Conference in Glasgow in November. Both Italy, which hosts the G Summit, and the United Kingdom, which hosts the climate conference, have benefited from the Belt and Road Initiative. And the two summits, meant to discuss economic resilience and climate change mitigation, are bound to notice Chinas growing leverage. China has made major investments in many fields to make its economy more resilient to external forces and fight climate change. For example, China has adopted the dual circulation development paradigm to boost the domestic economy. On the climate front, it has pledged to peak carbon emissions before  and achieve carbon neutrality before , which are uphill tasks for a rapidly growing country of . billion people, especially because the Chinese economy is still overwhelmingly dependent on fossil fuelswith coal contributing more than  percent to the total power generation and crude oil imports accounting for over  percent its total consumption. Still, China seems determined to achieve the two goals. Returning to Xis speech, it seems it was not so much about future targets of the CPC as it was about how the  years of CPC should inspire and help gain foresight into future and about learning from history to create a bright future. Xi also stressed that the special salience that distinguishes the CPC from other political parties is its courage in undertaking selfreform. July  incidentally also marked the th anniversary of the return of Hong Kong to China. While highlighting the high degree of autonomy the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region enjoys, Xi reiterated his commitment to ensure that the central government exercises overall jurisdiction over Hong Kong and Macao that, for him, defines the spirit of one country, two systems. This is where Xi welcomed constructive criticism but not sanctimonious preaching, perhaps targeting the United States, which is the only country that feels entitled to impose its domestic laws on other countries and resorts to longarm jurisdiction. Xi made it clear that China has chosen its path of development and will stick to it, and will brook no interference in its internal affairs. The author is a professor at and chairman of the Centre for International Politics, Organisation and Disarmament, Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi. The views dont necessarily reflect those of China Daily. If you have a specific expertise, or would like to share your thought about our stories, then send us your writings at opinionchinadaily.com.cn, and commentchinadaily.com.cn.