Unusual Olympics What makes Tokyo  different
2021/7/21 10:15
Editors note Because of the ongoing COVID pandemic, with several people having tested positive, the  Tokyo Olympics have adopted some new rules and unusual practices. This stands as a reminder that, as the athletes strive for medals, everyone wins by ensuring the safety of all participants. Models present items that will be used for the victory ceremonies of the  Tokyo Olympic and Paralympic Games, including podium, music, costumes and medal trays, during the unveiling event at Ariake Arena in Tokyo, Japan, June , .  Winners will put on their own medals by themselves On July , International Olympic Committee IOC chairman Thomas Bach said winners themselves will pick up their medals and put them on in order to prevent and control the COVID pandemic. They will not shake hands or hug. Winners and awardees are required to wear masks. Chen Meng right and Liu Shiwen left during the womens team warmup competition in Weihai, East Chinas Shandong province, June , .  Athletes forbidden from engaging in some typical habits In order to prevent the spread of COVID, some of the athletes typical habits will be forbidden. For example, Liu Guoliang, president of the Chinese Table Tennis Association, said during an interview that players will not be allowed to touch the tables by hand or towel, or blow on the balls. These behaviors are subconscious habits for table tennis players during matches. Liu Shiwen, Chinese table tennis player, admitted it was hard to adapt to the new rules at the beginning, but she has to follow them since they are implemented during Tokyo . A view of Nippon Budokan, the venue of the judo and karate competitions for the  Tokyo Olympic Games in Tokyo, Japan, July , .  Only three venues allow audiences, but digital measures adopted Due to the spread of COVID, audiences are only allowed in three venues, which will hold track cycling and football matches. However, for those venues which have banned audience members, the IOC said they are considering using a system that can transfer the sound of applause to allow interaction. Besides, according to Bach, screens with online audiences watching matches could be placed in venues, so supporters can cheer for their favorite teams. Audience members are encouraged to shoot videos and share them with the whole world. Athletes also are provided opportunities to communicate with their families and fans after matches. Photo taken on June , , shows a Tokyo  employee walking past hand sanitizers at the entrance of the casual dining hall during a media tour of the Tokyo  Olympic and Paralympic Village in Tokyo.  New norm for media interviews A new norm for media interviews has been instituted, keeping teams isolated in bubbles from the outside world over concerns for their health and safety amid the pandemic. Two COVID tests must be carried out within  hours before arriving in Japan. In the first  days after landing, media personnel cannot use public transport, and will only be allowed to go to the venues and business addresses submitted prior to their arrival. During their stay in Japan, they will be monitored through the GPS function of their smartphones. The frequency of testing will be specified for different media workers, with photographers working near athletes and in the competition area requiring daily testing. Media personnel who may have contact with athletes need to be tested every four days, while those who have no contact with athletes need to be tested every seven days. Recyclable cardboard beds and mattresses for athletes are pictured during a media tour at the Olympic and Paralympic Village for the  Tokyo Games in Tokyo, Japan, June , .  Tokyo  will be the first to build an Olympic Village using renewable materials, adopting the concepts of reduce, reuse and recycle as one of the leading themes of the Olympic Games, reflected in many aspects of the event. Paperboard beds stand out among the achievements. More than  podiums are made of waste household plastics, and the raw materials for making these podiums were collected by more than , brand chain stores in Japan. Gold, silver and bronze medals are made from recycled mobile phones. The buildings at the Olympic Village Square, which are made of wood, will be disassembled and transported back to their hometowns for reuse after the Games.