ChinaEurope freight trains become key trade link
2021/7/20 17:43
Participating members take selfies on the Bund in Shanghai, on July , . Photo by Yang Hongfor chinadaily.com.cn The  teenagers currently participating in the th Shanghai International Youth Interactive Friendship Camp underwent the I Love Shanghai Orientation activity in Shanghai on Monday. With the theme of peace, friendship and future, the camp has attracted nearly , teenagers from about  countries and regions since its founding in . Because of the COVID pandemic, this years camp only involves foreign teenagers living in Shanghai. Organized by the Shanghai Peoples Association for Friendship with Foreign Countries and the Shanghai Youth Federation, the oneday orientation activity took participants on a tour of classic sites in Shanghai such as the North Bund, the Lujiazui area, the Site of the First National Congress of the Communist Party of China, Wukang Mansion and Wuzhong Road Station. Each participant was provided with a canvas bag which contained items such as face masks, disinfectant, BandAids, essential balm, wet wipes, oneday public transportation cards and cards stipulating their tasks. Participants used shared bike to tour Shanghai, on July , . Photo by Yang Hongfor chinadaily.com.cn Divided into groups, the teenagers were required to travel on foot or using public transport options like shared bike, metro, bus and ferry to get to their stipulated destinations. Upon arrival, they had to take photos with Shanghai landmarks and have their task cards stamped. Samichhya Karki, a yearold Nepalese student, said the experience was a memorable one. I made many friends from around the world today. I hope to make more international friends like this in the future, said Karki. I think the camp is really fun and interesting and it creates an environment where we are able to make friends with people we probably wont meet otherwise. Also, Shanghai is a beautiful city. I absolutely love it! said Isabel Katharine Braithwaite, a Swedish teenager who has lived in Shanghai for three years. Tomonari Nakano, a Japanese student, shared the same sentiment. I can feel the sense of ebullience of Shanghai life through this activity, he added. The th Shanghai International Youth Interactive Friendship Camp started in Shanghai on July  and will ends on July . International teenagers experience I Love Shanghai Orientation activity on Monday, Photo by Yang Hongfor chinadaily.com.cn International teenagers experience I Love Shanghai Orientation activity on Monday. Photo by Yang Hongfor chinadaily.com.cn The camp members check on the Site of the First National Congress of the Communist Party of China. Photo by Yang Hongfor chinadaily.com.cn Upon arrival, they take photos with Shanghai landmarks and have their task cards stamped. Photo by Yang Hongfor chinadaily.com.cn