COVID hospitalizations in US Los Angeles county spike as more people test positive
2021/7/20 14:57
LOS ANGELES  New COVID hospitalizations here have spiked as test positivity has increased fold over the last five weeks, according to data released by local public health authorities on Monday. The Los Angeles County Department of Public Health reported , new cases of COVID and two new deaths in a release. There are  people with COVID currently hospitalized in Los Angeles County. On June , there were  people hospitalized, said the department, adding that test positivity increased fold from the . percent on June  to Mondays test positivity rate of . percent. Officials said the county is now beginning to see corresponding increases in hospitalizations after cases increased  percent since June . Los Angeles returned to mandatory maskwearing indoors over the weekend. The Los Angeles County Department of Public Health noted that they require all residents to wear masks in indoor public spaces, regardless of vaccination status. L.A. County continues to see alarming trends of increased community spread. The spread of the more infectious Delta variant through intermingling of unmasked individuals where vaccination status is unknown has caused a rapid spread of COVID that is resulting in a significant increase in cases and hospitalizations, said Barbara Ferrer, the countys director of Public Health, in the release. By wearing masks indoors at public places and worksites, we can get back to slowing the spread of the virus, she added. To date, the department has identified ,, positive cases with , deaths in the county, home to over  million residents. Official data showed that among residents aged  and above in Los Angeles County, the most populous county in the United States, around  percent have received at least one dose of a COVID vaccine, and  percent have been fully vaccinated. But officials noted there are still almost  million people in the county who have not been or are not eligible to be vaccinated, including . million children under  years of age.