With no summit, Moon to skip Olympics
2021/7/20 9:37
A commuter crosses the London Bridge in London, on July , .  LONDON  As England moved to the final stage of lifting COVID restrictions on Monday in what has been dubbed Freedom Day, medical experts are reminding the public to exercise caution. In an interview with Xinhua, Stephen Winchester, consultant virologist at Berkshire and Surrey Pathology Services, said it was imperative that the British government continues to urge the public to remain cautious. I think there is that risk of infections rising as restrictions are eased, said Wincheser. This Monday has seen almost all legal restrictions on social contact being removed. There are now no limits on how many people can meet or attend events, nightclubs reopened at midnight, and face coverings will be recommended in some spaces but not required by law. Vaccines, according to Winchester, had been key in allowing Britain to have its Freedom Day. Its in the backdrop of the vaccination program, and also with some degree of caution as well in the timing of the year, the expert said. He noted that there remains an element of caution in the final step of release in terms of trying to encourage people to meet outside and encouraging the use of face masks where deemed appropriate. The easing of restrictions is always a judgment, which might be proved wrong, he added. Talking about the concern that infections rise could give way to new variants emerging, the virologist said the threat of new variants will always be there. Globally new variants can emerge, as weve seen all across the globe. So I dont think that not lifting restrictions eliminates that risk. I think there is still transmission even with restrictions. So theres always a risk of a new variant emerging, he said. Some scientists have predicted that Britains infections, currently at about , a day, could reach , a day later in the summer. Whats key, Winchester believes, is that Britain continues with its strong vaccination program and testing structure. Both scientists and the British government have acknowledged that although vaccines have weakened the link between COVID infections and hospitalizations, it has not severed it. General view of a COVID vaccination centre in Sandwich, Britain, on July , .  According to Winchester, the link is not expected to be broken at this current stage. We dont have a full population with two doses of vaccine. So theres still some progress to be made on the vaccination front itself. Theres also the fact that the vaccines are never  percent effective, he said, adding that theres still a potential for variants to emerge that may reduce the efficacy of the vaccines further. So its quite a dynamic process that doesnt have an instant solution, unfortunately, he said. According to government scientists, the peak of the current wave is not expected before midAugust and could lead to between , and , hospital admissions per day. Central estimates from modellers advising the government also show that COVID deaths are expected to reach between  and  per day at the peak, although there is a large amount of uncertainty. Winchester stressed that the public will need to use their own judgement in helping to stop the spread of the coronavirus as restrictions were eased. If youre in a quite small room or meeting room, and theres quite a large number of people or it just feels densely full with people, then, you need to be careful, use your own judgment and use the mask sensibly. And then beyond the mask, its just general common sense in terms of isolating if you have symptoms, getting tested, not going out, avoiding contact with anyone who is symptomatic where possible. He said the risk of having a Freedom Day now is that cases could rise further, but if the public remain cautious and aware that there are still cases, hospitalizations and deaths out there, then it should help to mitigate the spread. They may not be at the rates that theyve previously been at, but they can still occur and so still to be careful to look after yourself and those around you, he urged. Britain has reported another , coronavirus cases in the latest hour period, bringing the total number of coronavirus cases in the country to ,,, according to official figures released Sunday. The country also recorded another  coronavirusrelated deaths, with the total number of coronavirusrelated deaths in Britain standing at ,. These figures only include the deaths of people who died within  days of their first positive test. Nearly  percent of adults in Britain have received the first jab of COVID vaccine and more than  percent have received two doses, according to the latest figures. To bring life back to normal, countries such as Britain, China, Russia, the United States as well as the European Union have been racing against time to roll out coronavirus vaccines.