Toy retailer posts explosive sales, will go for IPO
2021/7/20 9:09
A woman walks past a Marks  Spencer store at Oxford Street, amid the outbreak of the coronavirus disease COVID, in London, Britain, July , .  UK industry association fears lack of help will continue for several months The United Kingdoms leading business confederation has called on the government to change COVID isolation requirements, after the national test and trace apparatus left some businesses and industries with worker shortages. Under current guidance, anyone contacted by the test and trace system in the UK must selfisolate for  days, regardless of their vaccine or testing status. Last week, more than , people were told to selfisolate, having come into contact with someone who tested positive for the novel coronavirus. Some pub and supermarket chains have had to close locations due to employee absences. Steve Rowe, the chief executive of Marks Spencer, told The Times he anticipates worker shortages across the retail sector could reach  percent during the next month, and his locations may need to respond by reducing hours. Several major ports operators have seen employee numbers reduced by  percent, leading to disruption in the UKs food supply. The Confederation of British Industry, which represents , businesses in the UK, said the government must bring forward plans to amend isolation rules, which are due to change next month. CBI President Karan Bilimoria said against the backdrop of crippling staff shortages, speed is of the essence. He said the government should not wait until Aug  to allow doublejabbed individuals not to selfisolate for  days. Bilimoria fears that work shortages will only get worse, now that the UK has lifted almost all lockdown and social distancing restrictions and COVID cases are on the rise. Analysis from the BBC projects that upwards of . million people could be told to isolate between now and midAugust. With restrictions being lifted and cases rapidly increasing, we urgently need a surefooted approach from government, creating confidence to secure the recovery, Bilimoria said in a statement on Sunday. This starts by immediately ending the selfisolation period of  days for people who are doublejabbed and providing a route out of isolation for those not yet fully vaccinated, through daily lateral fl ow tests. Bilimoria also endorsed the continued use of face coverings in enclosed spaces and on transport, in order to help create confidence for both staff and customers. As of Monday, masks are no longer mandated in indoor public spaces or on trains and buses. Building and maintaining confidence is key to securing the economic recovery, Bilimoria said. Business and government will continue working together, helping people and businesses live safely and successfully with the virus.