Belgian beer brand Grimbergen marks a new chapter in brewing
2021/7/19 9:17
Liu Shiwen, of the Chinese table tennis team, arrives at Narita International Airport in Tokyo, Japan, on Saturday. Other members of Chinese Olympic delegation also arrived in Tokyo on that day.  Well prepared and fully protected, Chinas Olympic teams have arrived in Tokyo safe and sound on a mission to do their country proud at the pandemichit Summer Games. With four days to go before the  Tokyo Olympics open on Friday, the majority of Chinas athlete delegation had traveled to the Japanese capital on chartered flights by Sunday, kicking off the countrys campaign to finish high in the medal tally at the multisports mega event, which was delayed for a year due to the COVID pandemic. Lin Chaopan C of the Chinese mens gymnastics team arrives with members of Chinese Olympic delegation at the Narita airport in Tokyo, Japan, July , .  Wearing masks and protective goggles, and some behind face shields, athletes and coaches from Chinas celebrated Olympics teams, including table tennis, womens soccer and badminton, appeared in high spirits at Narita International Airport over the weekend, to the excitement of awaiting supporters and photographers. After an extra year of the waiting, Chinese Olympians have been braced for not just athletic challenges, but also strict pandemiccontrol restrictions at arguably the toughest Olympic Games in history. Wang Qunce, coach of the Chinese womens gymnastics team, arrives with members of Chinese Olympic delegation at the Narita airport in Tokyo, Japan, July , .  It takes a little longer than before, but the trip is fairly smooth, and my whole team is in good condition and ready for title challenges, Liu Guoliang, president of the Chinese Table Tennis Association, said on Saturday after going through complicated formalities that included a COVID test upon landing in Tokyo. Some of the teams, arriving in peak hours at the airport, had to wait up to five hours before receiving their negative test results and being allowed to go. Zhang Jun front, president of the Chinese Badminton Association, arrives with members of Chinese Olympic delegation at the Narita airport in Tokyo, Japan, July , .  Its understandable under this special situation during the COVID pandemic, since epidemicprevention is very important, said Jia Xiuquan, head coach of the womens soccer squad, adding that, regarding the requirements, the stricter the better. Led by  Olympic champions and guided by experienced coaches, including  hired from abroad, the Chinese teams will compete on a goal set by delegation chief Gou Zhongwen to stay at least within the top three on the overall medal table in Tokyo, and to try to better Chinas haul of  gold medals at the  Rio de Janeiro Games. Members of Chinese Olympic delegation arrive at the Narita airport in Tokyo, Japan, July , .  Gou, minister of the General Administration of Sport of China, stressed that its a top priority that all Chinese athletes have to compete with sportsmanship and discipline, holding a zerotolerance stance against doping. China will count on athletes from six traditionally strong sportstable tennis, diving, weightlifting, shooting, gymnastics and badmintonto bolster its medal hopes. Yet the hosts improving strength in both racket sports and the strong competition from the United States in gymnastics and Germany in shooting have heralded tough battles for gold. Members of Chinese Olympic delegation arrive at the Narita airport in Tokyo, Japan, July , .  Designated to march into the opening ceremony as th among the delegations, Team China will be spearheaded by two flagbearersmens taekwondo reigning champion Zhao Shuai and womens volleyball star Zhu Ting, who were confirmed by the Chinese Olympic Committee on Saturday as being selected to shoulder the duty of honor. Zhu helped the Chinese womens squad claim a highprofile gold medal in volleyball five years ago in Rio, and Zhao made history by winning Chinas first Olympic gold in mens taekwondo when he triumphed in the  kg category in Brazil. Lu Yufei R, front of the Chinese womens gymnastics team arrives at the Narita airport in Tokyo, Japan, July , .  I really appreciate the trust from our delegation. Its a huge honor for me to be named the flagbearer. I feel greatly motivated by it, said yearold Zhu, captain of the Chinese team. Watching our national flag hoisted along with the national anthem is always my goal, and that of the Chinese womens volleyball team as well.