Chinese athletes ready for Tokyo Games
2021/7/17 7:19
People, some wearing protective face masks, walk over Westminster Bridge, amid the coronavirus disease COVID pandemic, in London, Britain, July , .  LONDON  Britain has recorded more than , new daily coronavirus cases, the highest number since midJanuary, according to official data released Friday. The country reported another , coronavirus cases in the latest hour period, bringing the total number of coronavirus cases in the country to ,,, official figures showed. The country also recorded another  coronavirusrelated deaths. The total number of coronavirusrelated deaths in Britain now stands at ,. These figures only include the deaths of people who died within  days of their first positive test. The British government has confirmed that most COVID restrictions in England will end on Monday as part of the final step or Step Four of Englands roadmap out of the lockdown. But scientists have warned that lifting all restrictions at this stage could increase likelihood of dangerous variants. Englands coronavirus reproduction number, also known as the R number, stood between . and ., meaning, on average, every  people infected will infect between  and  other people, according to the latest estimate by the Scientific Advisory Group for Emergencies SAGE, a British government advisory body. Meanwhile, the growth rate range of coronavirus is  percent to  percent, which means that the number of new infections is growing by between  percent and  percent every day. As for vaccination, Imperial College London and Ipsos MORI have published their latest antibody surveillance report, which showed that almost  percent of people tested positive for antibodies  days after their second dose of the Pfizer and AstraZeneca vaccine. Over , participants tested themselves at home using a finger prick test between May  and , tracking COVID antibodies across England following either natural infection or vaccination. Following one dose of either vaccine, the proportion of people testing positive for antibodies peaked at four to five weeks after first dose and then started to decline before rising substantially in those who had a second dose, according to the report. The findings emphasize the need for everyone to get both doses of the vaccine to receive the best chance of protection against this disease as restrictions are lifted, the report also said. Results of this very large study show the substantial impact of the vaccination program on antibody positivity in adults. However, coverage of vaccines is uneven with people in some groups and areas less likely to have been vaccinated., said Helen Ward, Professor of Public Health at Imperial College London. It is concerning that people on low incomes, in deprived areas, some minority ethnic groups and in some public facing occupations such as hospitality, may remain relatively unprotected from future spread. We need to continue and intensify efforts to reach these groups with vaccination, and to ensure other protective measures are in place, said Professor Ward. To bring life back to normal, countries such as Britain, China, Russia, the United States as well as the European Union have been racing against time to roll out coronavirus vaccines.