China vows to deepen global partnerships
2021/7/16 0:00
China is committed to deepening global development partnerships and opening up new prospects for cooperation in international development to build a community with a shared future for mankind, State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi said on Wednesday at the  United Nations highlevel political forum on sustainable development. China follows a new development philosophy featuring innovative, coordinated, green and open development for all, Wang said. It is highly consistent with the  Agendas five critical dimensions of people, planet, prosperity, peace and partnership. It is an effort to contribute Chinas wisdom and a Chinese solution to the cause of global development. Wang made the remarks at the international forum hosted by the UN Economic and Social Council during which he discussed Chinas efforts and achievements in implementing the UNs  Agenda for Sustainable Development. First, China always makes development its first priority, Wang pointed out. China has become the only country that has moved from the low human development category to the high human development category, he said. The nations economic output also has exceeded  trillion yuan, he said. Second, China adopts a peoplecentered philosophy, he said. For the first time in history, China eliminated absolute poverty, accounting for more than  percent of global povertyreduction, said Wang, adding that not a single person of the . million impoverished population was left behind. Third, China always puts into practice its belief in the harmony between man and nature, Wang said. China has coordinated the management of mountains, rivers and forests as well as farmlands, lakes, grasslands and deserts and contributed to onefourth of the increase in global afforestation and onefifth of the net restored land. Fourth, China embraces the trend of openness and winwin cooperation. China has made the biggest contribution to global growth for  consecutive years, Wang said. Growing trade Chinas total imports and exports of goods exceeded  trillion yuan in , and its outward investment surpassed  billion, according to the foreign minister. In addition, China and its plus partner countries under the Belt and Road Initiative have grown their trade to more than . trillion and established the largest cooperation platform in the world. Fifth, China pursues common development with all countries. It is committed to deepening SouthSouth cooperation and has provided development aid to more than  developing countries. In the face of the COVID pandemic, China has carried out the largest global humanitarian operation since the founding of New China, providing more than  billion masks, . billion protective suits and . billion testing kits to the world. The country also has provided over  million doses of vaccines to more than  countries and international organizations and has made an important contribution to global vaccination. At this critical juncture, we must join hands, act with a stronger sense of responsibility and take more concrete steps to inject fresh momentum into the global development process, Wang stressed. He made several proposals to tackle the challenges to the cause of international development. First, the international community needs to prioritize development, and be the practitioner of the Sustainable Development Goals, he said. Amid the unprecedented pandemic, countries need to put people front and center and take development as the fundamental way to respond to the pandemic and humanitarian crises, Wang said. The UNs coordinating role should be given full play, and development should be placed high on the global macropolicy agenda. Second, countries need to respect each others development paths, and be the defender of a fair and just international order, Wang said. Third, the international community needs to foster a development environment of inclusiveness and coordination and be the builder of an open world economy, Wang said. Fourth, nations need to highlight innovationdriven growth and be a pioneer in highquality development, Wang said, and find new growth drivers as the tide of the new industrial revolution surges forward. Fifth, countries need to jointly tackle global challenges, and be a contributor to a bright future for humanity. teresaliuchinadailyusa.com