Tennessee halts vaccineoutreach efforts for adolescents
2021/7/15 11:02
A waitress wearing rubber gloves and a mask is seen taking orders for patrons at Pucketts Grocery  Restaurant in Franklin, Tennessee on April , .  Get vaccinated or face getting COVID from the Delta variant. That is what health officials throughout the US are essentially saying as they deal with a growing number of people in hospitals as the variant claims more victims. But lawmakers in some states are still saying no to vaccinationoutreach efforts. Tennessee, which has one of the lowest vaccination rates in the country, is halting vaccinationoutreach efforts for teens and younger children, not only for COVID, but all diseases, including measles and other illnesses, amid pressure from Republican lawmakers, the Tennessean reported. The newspaper said an internal report it obtained shows that the Tennessee Department of Health TDH will also halt all COVID vaccine events on school property and no longer send postcards or other notices reminding teenagers to get their second dose of COVID vaccines. TDH Chief Medical Officer Tim Jones wrote in an email obtained by the newspaper that staff should administer no proactive outreach regarding routine vaccines and no outreach whatsoever regarding the HPV vaccine. Any kinds of information sheets or other materials that we make available for dissemination should have the TDH logo removed, he wrote. The changes in Tennessee are being put in place as the COVID pandemic shows signs of surging in the state. After months of declining infections, the average number of coronavirus cases per day has more than doubled in the past two weeks, from  to . The average testpositivity rate has jumped from . percent to . percent in the same time period, according to the Tennessean. On Tuesday, Michelle Fiscus, who was the states top vaccine official, said she was fired this week amid scrutiny from Republican state lawmakers over her departments outreach efforts to vaccinate teenagers against COVID. Fiscus, who was the medical director for vaccinepreventable diseases and immunization programs at the TDH, accused the states elected leaders of putting politics over the health of children by firing her for her efforts to get more Tennesseans vaccinated. Fiscus had passed along legal guidance to health providers saying teenagers dont need parents consent to receive a COVID vaccine shot, a position established by decades of state law. Specifically, it was MY job to provide evidencebased education and vaccine access so that Tennesseans could protect themselves against COVID, Fiscus wrote in a statement about her firing. I have now been terminated for doing exactly that. Its just a huge symptom of just how toxic the whole political landscape has become, Fiscus said in an interview on Tuesday. This virus is apolitical  it doesnt care who you are or where you live or which president you preferred. Its just been a very difficult thing for us to overcome. A review published in December by Kaiser Health News and The Associated Press found that at least  state and local public health leaders in  states had resigned, retired or been fired since April , . COVID vaccination should be a condition of employment for all healthcare personnel, the coalitions statement reads, warning that a sufficient vaccination rate is unlikely to be achieved without such a mandate. It was signed by the Society for Healthcare Epidemiology of America, the Infectious Diseases Society of America and five other medical groups. According to the American Association of Medical Colleges, three weeks ago only a halfdozen health systems in the US and nearly all hospitals in Washington DC had required all staff be vaccinated against COVID. Federal officials have balked at instituting requirements on healthcare workers, and many healthcare organizations have said they dont plan to require their staff members to get vaccinated against the coronavirus, according to The Washington Post. As of Tuesday, the Delta variant initially identified in India, accounted for about  percent of coronavirus cases in the US, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. It was . percent for the two weeks prior.