UK to enter uncharted territory as rules lift
2021/7/15 8:13
A medical professional with Beijing Haidian Hospital introduces material on AIDS prevention to a visitor during a free consultation event in Beijing on World AIDS Day on Dec .  China witnessed significant drops in new cases of nearly all major infectious diseases last year, with the number of new HIVAIDS infections seeing its first yearonyear decline in a decade, according to an annual health development communique released by the National Health Commission on Monday. The number of viral hepatitis cases dropped by . percent yearonyear, with tuberculosis cases down by about . percent, the communique said. The two diseases were the most prevalent among all  notifiable contagious illnesses. Reported cases of other diseases transmitted mainly through respiratory droplets, such as flu, measles, mumps, scarlet fever and handfootmouth disease, also declined markedly. Experts said previously that COVID disease control measures, such as keeping social distance, wearing masks and washing hands regularly, can also play a role in curbing the spread of many other viruses. As the pandemic has caused a sharp reduction in international travel, imported infections of dengue fever and malariawhose domestic spread has been largely eliminateddropped by over  and  percent respectively last year. China reported about , HIVAIDS infections last year, down by more than , from . But HIVAIDS remained the deadliest infectious disease, with more than , people dying of AIDSrelated illnesses last year, the communique said. COVID, which was added to the list of notifiable infectious illnesses in January last year, led to , infections and , deaths in , with the data including imported cases detected on the Chinese mainland. The communique said the COVID pandemic also led to a reduction in the number of visits to medical institutions and hospitalizations last year, both falling by more than  percent compared with . Chinas total medical expenditures increased by about  billion yuan  billion to over . trillion yuan last year, accounting for . percent of GDP, up from about . percent in  and . percent in , the communique said. It said  million babies were born last year, with the ratio of those born as a second child or into even bigger families standing at . percent, down slightly from . Ning Jizhe, head of the National Bureau of Statistics, told an earlier conference that the country had seen more than  million children born with an older sibling in recent years due to adjustments in the countrys family planning policy. China consolidated and expanded achievements in disease control, and improved medical service quality last year, the commission said. And Chinese peoples health levels further improved in . HIGHLIGHTS FROM THE STATISTICAL COMMUNIQUE ON CHINAS HEALTH DEVELOPMENT IN  MUKESH MOHANANCHINA DAILY