Biden sets Jan  as vaccine deadline for big firms
2021/11/5 10:31
A vial of the PfizerBioNTech COVID vaccine is seen displayed at in New Hyde Park, New York, Nov , .  The Biden administration on Thursday set Jan  as the deadline for medium and large businesses with  or more employees to have all workers fully vaccinated against COVID or face weekly tests. The mandate will affect about  million workers in private sector. The emergency order was issued by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration OSHA at the Labor Department. It isnt clear how many of those employees affected by the order are unvaccinated. OSHA left open the possibility of expanding the requirement to smaller businesses. It asked for public comment on whether employers with fewer than  employees could handle vaccination or testing programs. The regulations will make companies require that unvaccinated workers test negative for COVID at least once a week and wear a mask while in the workplace. The Biden administration also requires workers at healthcare facilities that receive Medicare or Medicaid funding to be vaccinated by Jan  without the option of being tested weekly. That will affect an estimated  million healthcare workers. The pandemic has killed more than , Americans so far. The global toll has surpassed  million. OSHA said companies that fail to comply with the regulations could face penalties of nearly , per violation. Unvaccinated workers are also required to wear masks at their workplace. Workers can ask for exemptions on medical or religious grounds. People who work outdoors or at home are exempt from the vaccination mandate. The federal government didnt require the employers to pay for the weekly test of unvaccinated workers. This will put some economic pressure on employees to get vaccinated. The rules were released after weeks of regulatory review and meetings with business groups, labor unions and others. While I would have much preferred that requirements not become necessary, too many people remain unvaccinated for us to get out of this pandemic for good, President Joe Biden said Thursday in a statement. Together, these rules will cover about  million Americans  twothirds of all workers in America. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention data cited by OSHA indicate that, as of Oct , . percent of people age  years or older are fully vaccinated, leaving approximately . million unvaccinated or not fully vaccinated. OSHA said that vaccine mandates imposed by state governments and large employers have been effective in increasing vaccination rates. It cited that the vaccination rate in Tyson Foods workforce went from  percent to  percent in less than two months after a mandate. Similarly, United Airlines achieved  percent vaccination rate within a week of the deadline. By OSHAs estimate, the vaccine mandate will prevent more than , unvaccinated workers from dying of COVID over the next six months, and an additional , currently unvaccinated workers will avoid being hospitalized during that same time period. The National Retail Federation, an industry trade group including some major retail chains, issued a statement stating that the vaccine mandate would impose burdensome new requirements on retailers during the crucial holiday shopping season. The federal mandate is likely to lead to more lawsuits along political lines. Senate Republicans have said they would try to repeal it using a law known as the Congressional Review Act. Some GOP governors including those in Florida, Indiana, Georgia, Nebraska and Iowa already have said they plan to challenge the mandate. Republican Texas Governor Greg Abbott issued an executive order last month banning any entity from requiring a vaccine mandate. While the federal order will void part of the ban, Abbotts order will still apply to local governments, school districts and smaller businesses.