Japanese govt yet to use  bln of stimulus packages
2021/7/14 9:37
Pedestrians wearing protective face masks, amid the coronavirus disease COVID pandemic, are seen in front of the Tsutenkaku Tower in Osaka, Japan, April , .  TOKYO  The Japanese government has yet to use around  trillion yen  billion out of about  trillion yen under its three fiscal  additional budgets to fund stimulus packages in the combat against the COVID pandemic, medias tally showed Tuesday. The finding was observed from the data released by the Cabinet Office in May, and it reflected the slow response of the Japanese government regarding the economic fallout from the COVID pandemic and the stalled projects caused by the further spread of the virus, local media said. The leftover funds were disclosed because Prime Minister Yoshihide Sugas Liberal Democratic Party is considering formulating another largescale supplementary budget to fund new economic stimulus. Obviously, the party hopes to win public support ahead of the general election held in November. According to a Kyodo News tally, the government allocated more than . trillion yen as the financial supports for food service establishments that follow the antiCOVID measures to either completely shut down or reduce operating time in preventing the spread of COVID. However, as of the end of April, only around  billion yen was provided. Delays in clerical work are deemed to be the reason that the amount yet to be used. Of about . trillion yen earmarked as the budget of Go To Travel campaign, which was launched in July  to stimulate the domestic tourism industry,  billion yen has been provided to tourists and service operators as the campaign suspended since late December amid the nationwide spread of the virus. The Cabinet Office has reviewed the budget implementation status. The review covered projects for which over  billion yen in the state funds have been allocated, excluding financial support for small and midsize firms. Part of the leftover funds will be used in fiscal  starting in April or later.