Plan sees Shanghai forging global ties in digital landscape
2021/7/13 9:22
A woman plays Chinese chess with a robot at the World Artificial Intelligence Conference in Shanghai, on July , .  Shanghais digitalization push has intensified with the unveiling of a master plan to build the metropolis into a model city of international cooperation on digital economy in three years. The action plan will span three years to and target Shanghais transformation into a worldclass innovative digital hub. Simultaneously, the city will seek to morph into a demonstration zone featuring the concerted development of the digital economy and the real economy, as well as pioneer an ecosystem that can drive digital transformation. The directive, released during the closing ceremony of the  World Artificial Intelligence Conference on Saturday, will manifest in the form of  special projects and  key tasks, local authorities said. The plan aims to bring forth both application scenarios and key technology breakthroughs, said Wu Jincheng, head of the Shanghai Municipal Commission of Economy and Informatization, the citys key industrial planner. He also said Shanghai is looking to have its core digital economy value more than  billion yuan . billion and heralds  leading algorithms,  algorithmic products and classic application scenarios, and aggregate , algorithm developers. Highlights among a host of numerical targets published included the achievements of over  key technologies, the formation of over  standardized algorithmdriven products, fostering over  smart hardware products, and creating more than  web trafficdriven enterprises with market value worth  billion yuan or more. The value of AI shall be maximized only by putting customers and manufacturers at the core and serving a suite of daily life and production scenarios, said Dowson Tong, senior executive vicepresident of Tencent, Chinas internet giant. For instance, by combining its cloud computing and algorithm might, Tencent managed to shorten the quality inspection cycle at Shanghai Future Hightech Co Ltd from the previous  seconds using human labor to just several seconds. Tong said such an effort could save the company some tens of millions of yuan per year. During the pandemic, Tencents YouTu Lab, an inhouse AI team based in Shanghai, devised a facial recognition system that allows high accuracy identification when people wear masks, said Zhang Lijun, Tencents vicepresident. AI company SenseTime has just unveiled its fullstack SenseAuto Intelligent Automobile solution with a suite of AIpowered features that fuse computer vision and multiple sensors. In addition to common traffic participants and road information, the solution also recognizes longtail scenario elements such as vehiclelane convergence and divergence, road signs and traffic light shapes, which are typical in China. Meanwhile, it promises multiple incabin entertainment functions that can be activated with voice commands. We strive to empower partners with our proprietary AI capabilities to help reduce innovation cost, reduce RD cycles, bring an intelligent driving experience to end customers and form a winwin situation for the auto industry, said Wang Xiaogang, cofounder of SenseTime. In terms of talent development, the AI Young Scientists Alliance formed during the first WAIC is gaining ground, where promising AI practitioners carry out AIrelated projects through an incubation program called AClass. A batch of  scientists graduating from worldrenowned institutions like the University of California Berkeley and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology joined the latest edition of the AClass, pledging to make latest AI technologies applicable in a variety of industries. Shanghais mature industry ecosystem, open policies and favorable business environment are making the city a magnet to draw AI talents, said Zhu Mingjie, an executive director of the alliance, who is also founder and CEO of AI startup CraiditX.