Internet platforms targeted in data security reviews
2021/7/13 7:02
Britains Prime Minister Boris Johnson reacts at a news conference as he gives an update on relaxing restrictions imposed on the country during the coronavirus disease COVID pandemic inside the Downing Street Briefing Room in London, Britain July , .  LONDON  The British government confirmed Monday that most COVID restrictions in England will end next week despite surging cases caused by the Delta variant first identified in India. Most restrictions are set to end on July  as part of the final step or Step Four of Englands roadmap out of the lockdown, British Prime Minister Boris Johnson has previously announced. But this still needs to be confirmed on Monday following a review of the latest data by the government. The detailed arrangement of Step Four includes no more limits on social contact to allow people to gather in groups of any size removing the one meterplus rule in almost all settings, except for specific places such as airports no capacity caps on large scale events people are no longer required to work from home, etc. Speaking at a press conference Monday at Downing Street, Johnson said it is vital to proceed with caution and this pandemic is not over. His remarks came as Britain reported another , coronavirus cases in the latest hour period, bringing the total number of coronavirus cases in the country to ,,, according to official figures released Monday. People wearing protective face masks walk along a platform at Kings Cross Station, amid the coronavirus disease COVID outbreak in London, Britain, July , .  It is the sixth day in a row where the daily cases have been more than ,. The country also recorded another six coronavirusrelated deaths. The total number of coronavirusrelated deaths in Britain now stands at ,. These figures only include the deaths of people who died within  days of their first positive test. Johnson said that Englands strict border policy would continue, and tracking, tracing and isolating positive cases will stay in place. The move to Step Four was delayed by up to four weeks so every adult could be offered a vaccine. Some . million first and second doses have already been administered in England during the delay so far, according to a government statement released on Monday. It is the right time to go to Step Four, Britains Health Secretary Sajid Javid said during his speech in the parliament on Monday. If not now, when? There will never be a perfect time to take this step because we simply cannot eradicate this virus. Despite the easing which will see legal requirement to wear face masks in shops and on public transport being scrapped, the government will still recommend the use of face masks in crowded areas, according to Sky News. Scientists have warned that lifting all restrictions at this stage could increase likelihood of dangerous variants. More than  percent of adults in Britain have received the first jab of COVID vaccine and over  percent have received two doses, the latest official figures showed. Javid said that the government is now on track to offer every adult a dose of the vaccine by July . The vaccination rollout will continue to accelerate by bringing forward second doses for under s to eight weeks  meaning the entire population will benefit from maximum protection more quickly, according to the government. To bring life back to normal, countries such as Britain, China, Russia, the United States as well as the European Union have been racing against time to roll out coronavirus vaccines.