Nation strengthening antitrust enforcement
2021/7/12 10:42
Here are some of the most striking images taken from around the world over the past week. Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga is seen on a large screen as he announces a new state of emergency in Tokyo on July , . The government decided Thursday to put capital Tokyo under the fourth state of emergency over COVID, covering the duration of the Olympics, in an effort to curb a recent surge in infections.  A woman wearing a face mask walks on the sidewalk of Sudirman Street in Jakarta, Indonesia, on July , .  Photo taken on July , , shows the St Boniface Indian Industrial School Cemetery in Banning, San Bernardino County, California, the United States. James Ramos, a California State assemblyman and historian, joined other tribal leaders across Southern California to support a federal investigation of Indian boarding schools operated under the US governments cultural assimilation program in the th and th centuries.  A zoo keeper interacts with a gentoo penguin at the Pairi Daiza zoo in Brugelette, Belgium, July , . Pairi Daiza zoo opened its newlybuilt Penguin House to the public on July . Twelve gentoo penguins currently reside at the Penguin House, which covers an area of  square meters and is designed with greenenergy system to maintain the temperature, light and fresh air.  US director and jury president Spike Lee rd L arrives with Jury members at the red carpet during the opening ceremony of the th Cannes International Film Festival in Cannes, southern France, July , .  People hug as they look at a memorial that has pictures of some of the victims of the collapsed story Champlain Towers South condo building in Surfside, Florida, on July , .  Chairman of Pakistani Senates Defense Committee Senator Mushahid Hussain Syed addresses the closing session of a seminar in Islamabad, capital of Pakistan, on July , .  Tourists visit the Fontana di Trevi in Rome, Italy, on July , .  People cool themselves at Santa Monica beach in Los Angeles, California, the United States, on July , . A heat wave recently hit parts of the western US.  Firefighters try to extinguish a blaze that broke out in a juice factory in Narayanganj, Bangladesh, July , . At least  workers died after the factory, about  km from capital Dhaka, caught fire on Thursday.  A soldier stands guard in front of Haitian President Jovenel Moises home in PortauPrince, Haiti, on July , . Haitian President Jovenel Moise was shot dead at his home, Interim Prime Minister Claude Joseph said in a statement early on Wednesday.  Photo taken on July ,  shows the Ever Given container ship sailing on the Great Bitter Lake in Ismailia Province, Egypt. The giant Ever Given container ship, held in a lake between stretches of the canal since being refloated on March , started to sail after a settlement contract was signed. 