Mask remarks panned ahead of UK easing
2021/7/11 15:48
England fans celebrate at the Piccadilly Circus in London after English beat Denmark to advance to the Euro  final on July , .  LONDON  British authorities warned against large gatherings ahead of the Euro  football final Sunday, fearful of the highly transmissible Delta coronavirus variant that has fuelled outbreaks across the world. Many nations have been forced to reimpose curbs as they battle outbreaks accelerated by the variant  which was first detected in India  while also trying to ramp up vaccinations to allow their economies to reopen. London on Sunday will host , fans at Wembley Stadium for the final of the virusdelayed Euro  championship, the biggest crowd at a British football stadium since the start of the pandemic, as the home side take on Italy. Authorities are particularly concerned about the risk of large gatherings at fan zones and pubs across England to watch the countrys first appearance in a major football final in more than half a century. London still remains in a public health crisis, Metropolitan Police Deputy Assistant Commissioner Laurence Taylor said Saturday, urging people to remain socially distanced. British Prime Minister Boris Johnson has signalled he intends to ease all remaining restrictions in England on July , but infection rates are once again surging across Britain  driven by the Delta variant. His government has argued that, with more than  percent of adults having received at least one shot, the link between infections, hospitalisations and deaths has been severed. But many scientists are deeply uneasy with relaxing all remaining rules, including social distancing and the legal requirement to wear masks on public transport and in indoor spaces. Health experts have expressed concerns about Euro  events becoming superspreaders throughout the tournament, especially in Britain and Russia because of the Delta variant. Authorities in Denmark, Finland and Scotland have already reported infections among fans after they attended Euro matches. Elsewhere in Europe, after an exponential rise in cases, officials in the autonomous Spanish region of Catalonia said they had no choice but to reimpose restrictions. Agencies via Xinhua