Young Chinese Confident in themselves and their country
2021/7/9 12:35
Editors note A countrys future is its youth. Millennials and Gen Z in China grew up during Chinas rapid economic growth as internet natives. Who are they? What do they value most? What makes them distinct from older generations? In what direction will they take China to? Check out our story to find out. Young people in the audience sway to the music during a celebration show marking the th anniversary of the founding of the Communist Party of China at the National Stadium in Beijing on Monday evening, on June , . The art performance, titled The Great Journey, saw the great involvement of young people at the scene that night. Some performed onstage and some served as volunteers, while many others were part of the audience on the grandstand. They did their own bits for the grand celebration in various ways. Photo by Zhao DiChina Youth Daily  China Youth Net An independent generation On May , tens of thousands of young Chinese read about how the United States National Security Agency spied on European leaders with the help of Denmarks intelligence agency between  and . Chinese people have always had a strong interest in current affairs, and international politics is an important topic for many families around the dinner table. Millennials and Gen Z divided into posts and posts in Chinese discourse are continuing this tradition, which is why they are all familiar with the revelations of Edward Snowden and the actions of the NSA. The US, this master of the theft of secrets, is using clean network as a cover and claiming to safeguard cyber security, said Wang Wenbin, spokesman for the Chinese Foreign Ministry. His remarks went viral on social media in China. People cannot understand how the US can be so hypocritical and blatant in its eavesdropping, even toward its own allies. However, this is far from the only thing that confuses young people in China. Faced with the COVID pandemic, the performance of Western countries C as represented by the US C has been genuinely surprising. They cant understand why governments in these countries pour time and public resources into political campaigning while the virus continues to endanger peoples lives on such a massive scale. They also cant understand why these nations seem either unable or unwilling to persuade their citizens to make even minor personal sacrifices like wearing face masks, let alone accept strict but temporary lockdowns. This is despite the fact these measures could stop the spread of the virus and bring huge benefits to society as a whole. Some Chinese readers have noted Western media tends only to mention New Zealand and Australia when discussing success stories in fighting the pandemic, even though these countries have far smaller populations than China, where fighting an epidemic is far more difficult. Xu Ni center, a nurse at Wuhan Jinyintan Hospital, communicates with people inside an ICU ward via walkie talkie in Wuhan, Central Chinas Hubei province, on March , . Photo by Zhao DiChina Youth Daily  China Youth Net They especially wonder how developed countries can be so antiintellectual, with even the US president consistently going against the advice of scientists and so many of his followers supporting him. Reading foreign news has not been a pleasant experience for young readers in China. While the language is not a problem C since many young Chinese speak foreign languages well C they struggle to understand what happened to the objectivity so often touted by Western media. When it comes to China, the stories become so preposterous that reporters reach outlandish conclusions without ever having visited. Comments left below the line frequently say such things as This isnt reporting, its just rumors and slander. Many Chinese once sincerely believed Western media was ethical, but that is no longer the case. The Western medias image as investigating the truth and presenting objective and balanced reports has vanished in the eyes of many people. Many young Chinese who have studied and lived in the West are even more disappointed by the double standards of these countries. The mainstream Western media has almost completely ignored the skepticism and dissatisfaction of Chinese youth. On top of this, young people in China are angered by the rise in hate crimes committed against Asians in the US. During the  unrest in Hong Kong, many Chinese students overseas spontaneously banded together and stepped forward to defend the central governments stance. Aliya, a young woman born after  from Northwest Chinas Xinjiang Uygur autonomous region, poses with a ball of cotton grown in the region as she promotes her selfdesigned fashion brand at the Xinjiang Pavilion during the China International Consumer Products Expo in Haikou, South Chinas Hainan province, on May , . Photo by Li JuanhuiChina Youth Daily  China Youth Net During the early stages of the COVID outbreak in  and again in  when Xinjiang cotton was unfairly maligned, even more young people joined in to criticize those slandering China. These young, openminded Chinese expressed their anger with their actions. The focus of young Chinese peoples anger was the large number of fabricated or distorted reports, often taken outofcontext, in Western media depicting a China unrecognizable to them. They believe this treatment prevents their homeland from being given the treatment or respect it deserves in the world, or at least in the West. In terms of technology and trade, Chinese businesses and products are frequently suppressed and extorted for political purposes by some countries allied with the US. In terms of the progress of human civilization, this is absolutely unfair. The US magazine Foreign Policy is aware of this, publishing an article titled Young People in China Are Losing Faith in the West, which states Beijings relative success at conquering the pandemic may have convinced many young, foreigneducated Chinese that Chinas political and social values produce better outcomes than Western ones. Children perform at the new Memorial of the Site of the First National Congress of the Communist Party of China in Shanghai, July , . Photo by Gao ErqiangChina Daily A red generation Young Chinese are strongly patriotic C this is not an exaggeration fabricated by the government. According to a survey of nearly , people across China conducted in April  by Cary Wu , a sociology professor at York University in Canada, Chinese citizens had become more trusting in all levels of government since the COVID outbreak, with more than  percent of respondents saying they were satisfied with how Chinas national leaders managed the outbreak. Another poll in May that year, conducted by the China Data Lab at UC San Diegos School of Global Policy and Strategy, also showed an increase in public trust of the state. Young people in China are willing to serve their country because they believe it represents the public interest. Medical workers from Beijingbased ChinaJapan Friendship Hospital prepare to distribute medicine to COVID patients at a makeshift hospital in Wuhan, Central Chinas Hubei province, Feb , . Photo by Zhu XingxinChina Daily These youngsters played a key role in Chinas fight against the outbreak. Among the more than , medical workers from across the country who rushed to Hubei province, more than , were born in the s, with many born after , or even after . In addition, thousands more young people joined the fight on construction sites, in communities and factories or by guaranteeing transportation. It seemed as if peoples true colors were suddenly revealed, said Hua Yuchen, who was praised as the most beautiful volunteer during the epidemic response. She thinks their true color is Chinese Red, or patriotic. This posts teacher was one of the first people in Wuhan to volunteer their services after the outbreak. She drove from home to offer volunteer work, unloading cases of disinfectant each weighing  kg, and broadcasting news and music to patients at a makeshift hospital. In , Liu Zhongwen, who then worked at a government agency in Beijing, went to a village in neighboring Hebei province hundreds of kilometers away to serve as its First Party Secretary and head the working team dispatched to station at the village to carry out targeted poverty alleviation. This is a typical village in northern China. In the past it had the largest number of impoverished people among all villages in the county, and farming provided the only source of income for the villagers. Answering the nationwide call, the yearold came to the village with his guitar and created tailored plans to boost their income so as to help lift them out of poverty as soon as possible. In little more than two years, he has led villagers to build roads, establish povertyrelief workshops and set up a computer classroom and a water tower for the local elementary school. He has also taught them how to sell produce online via livestreaming. In his spare time, he composed a song expressing that although he feels sorry for his family, he is living up to the expectations of a youth in his duties. There are more than one million young people like Liu in China, who go to rural areas to help with poverty relief. On top of that, hundreds of thousands of university graduates have served as leaders in the countryside, while almost , young people have volunteered their services, providing educational, medical or other public services in the rural areas. They make the choice of their own will, just like their parents generation did decades ago, bringing muchneeded knowledge, skills and connections with moredeveloped areas. Thanks to their efforts, and those of China as a whole, nearly  million rural residents have shaken off poverty. By February , as a country with a population of . billion, China had lifted all of its people out of absolute poverty by current standards. The countryside is the cradle of the Communist Party of China. Despite being founded in Shanghai, the most prosperous city in China at the time, the CPC has always listened attentively to farmers and won the Chinese revolution with their help. Nowadays, a growing number of young Chinese are revisiting this period of history C not via textbooks or in the classroom, but by traveling to revolutionary sites. Students from Peking University review their oaths of joining the Communist Youth League of China at the New Culture Movement Memorial of Beijing to mark the centenary of the May Fourth Movement, on May , . Photo by Zhu XingxinChina Daily Known as red tourism, such trips are becoming increasingly popular in China. In , more than  million tourists visited Yanan, a former headquarters of the CPC, nearly double the number from three years earlier. During the May Day holiday in , visitors aged  accounted for  percent of bookings and searches for red tourism, according to TongchengElong, an online travel agency. Films and television series about Chinas revolutionary history have also proven extremely popular. One example is the recent hit TV series, The Age of Awakening, which examines the founding of the CPC. Actors from the series also appeared on the streets of Shanghai and interacted with residents. Dressed as the revolutionary heroes and martyrs they played in the series, they had conversations with the young people of today. When asked about their favorite way to learn about the history of the CPC and the country, . percent of the respondents chose watching movies, TV series, documentaries and performances, according to an April survey. Additionally, . percent believed it could help young people better understand Chinas present situation and develop a strong sense of mission by studying the history of the Party and the country. Young people nowadays are more proud and confident and identify more strongly with our nation and country, Zhang Yiwen, a young woman from Southwest Chinas Sichuan province, told CNN. They want to learn how China grew from a poor country to what it is today. Chinese people are good at drawing wisdom and strength from history. The country has perhaps the most detailed historical records in the world, and its cultural heritage allows young people today to read documents unearthed thousands of years ago with relative ease. History lives on in the lives of the Chinese people The Old Summer Palace, in the northwest of Beijing, was a large imperial garden built during the Qing Dynasty  which was sacked and burned down by British and French troops in . Today it has been turned into a memorial site, and like the Memorial Hall of the Victims in Nanjing Massacre, the silent ruins are a reminder of Chinas experience of colonial oppression since . Some Western scholars worry these historical narratives will fuel nationalism, although such thinking does not correspond to the reality in China. China is more familiar with the concept of a diverse and inclusive culture of tianxia C or all under heaven. The Chinese people attach great importance to introspection and reflection, and greatly admire the Confucian concepts of cultivating ones morality, regulating ones family, governing the country and pursuing world peace, rather than embarking on foreign wars and expanding territory. The Chinese people have a natural aversion to military expeditions, as typified by the line from a poem Few men return from their faraway expeditions . Chinese philosophy stresses equilibrium and harmony, which is expressed by ordinary people in the saying amiability begets riches. These idioms show traditional culture retains a strong vitality in todays China. Generations of Chinese have been brought up under this gentle and silent influence, and Gen Z is no exception. Li Yueyue, a maintenance worker at Bayangol Coal Mine in North Chinas Inner Mongolia autonomous region, dispatches an instruction through an intelligent voice system, on June , . Together with plus college graduates, Li joined the coal mine in  when it was still under construction. They formed a special mining team. Two years later, the Li Yueyue Innovation Studio for Highly Skilled Talents Model Workers was established. Li led  young people with an average age of  in the successful completion of  innovative results, generating . million yuan in revenues. Photo by Li JianquanChina Youth Daily  China Youth Net A stronger generation As internet natives who have grown up seemingly attached to their cell phones, young Chinese are strangers to adjectives like closedminded and conservative, just like other members of Gen Z around the world. Decades of rapid economic growth mean they have unparalleled spending power. This growth has also contributed to the rapid rise of Chinese brands like Li Ning and Anta, which are challenging the market dominance of Nike and Adidas. When the granaries are full, the people will know propriety and moderation when their clothing and food are adequate, they will know the distinction between honor and shame. This old Chinese saying is as wellknown in China as Shakespeares To be or not to be is among English speakers. When Chinese peoples material needs are taken care of, reading becomes their goto choice. Like some Western businesspeople, wealthy Chinese also enjoy donating to educational charities. These traditional concepts have acquired new meaning in the new era. Statistics from Chinas Ministry of Education show in , the completion rate of compulsory education in China was . percent, and the enrollment rate for higher education was . percent, both reaching the average levels of highincome countries. The government, social organizations and businesses offer scholarships and loans to students so they do not need to worry about tuition or living expenses once they receive a university offer. In , nearly  million Chinese students were studying foreign languages, which represents the largest group of foreign language learners anywhere in the world, while that year alone, , Chinese students went overseas to study. Engineering runs deep in the genes of almost every Chinese person. The parents of Gen Z members are familiar with the saying If you have a good command of math and sciences, you will find many endeavors are easily within your control. And Gen Z students have followed their advice. China has more engineers than any other country, and is the only country in the world to obtain all the industrial categories listed in the United Nations industrial classification. These industries absorb a large number of people and allow a wide variety of young people to find employment, no matter their university major or interests. Many have long been the backbones of their industries. They are hailed in China as master craftspeople of the nation and frequently make headlines, becoming celebrities in their own right. Zhou Yajuan, , works on the wiring of a subway train in an assembly workshop of CRRC Zhuzhou Locomotives urban rail business department in Zhuzhou, Central Chinas Hunan province, on May , . On the underside of the crown of her cap, she has written her yearold daughters name, Nini. Zhou has been involved in the manufacture of urban rail vehicles for use in numerous cities at home and abroad. She is currently working on subway trains for Guangzhou Metro Line , the first underground urban rapid transit express line with a speed of  kmh in China. The first batch of trains was officially delivered last September. CRRC Zhuzhou Locomotive currently has more than , employees, of whom more than , are female. These workers are working hard to help create China Speed. Photo by Kong SiqiChina Youth Daily  China Youth Net Zang Tiejun, , is a welder at CRRC Changchun Railway Vehicles Co Ltd, a subsidiary of China Railway Rolling Stock Corp, the countrys largest rolling stock manufacturer by production volume. He has completed nearly , meters of flawless welding, becoming the youngest senior technician in the companys history. In the design team for the Fuxing trains C the newest and fastest bullet trains in China,  designers are under , forming the main force of the team. Zou Bin right, deputy to the National Peoples Congress, takes part in a panel discussion with the Hunan province delegation to deliberate work reports of the Supreme Peoples Court and the Supreme Peoples Procuratorate during the second session of the th NPC in Beijing, on March , . Born in August , Zou is the youngest member of the Hunan delegation. He won a prize for bricklaying at the rd WorldSkills Competition and is a quality manager at the General Contracting Company of the China Construction Fifth Engineering Division under the China State Construction Engineering Corporation. Photo by Li ZhengniChina Youth Daily  China Youth Net Zou Bin is almost the same age as Zang, but his job seems somewhat less hightech. As a mason from the countryside, he is mainly responsible for mixing mortar, sifting sand and laying bricks on construction sites. But that hasnt stopped Zou from making a name for himself. In , he won first place in a bricklaying competition organized by a major construction company. The next year, he won Chinas first medal in bricklaying at the rd WorldSkills Competition held in Brazil. Now, Zou is a quality manager and has also joined the CPC. Cheng Peizhao, , is seen in his companys livestreaming studio in Keqiao district, Shaoxing, East Chinas Zhejiang province, on April , . Last year, Cheng conducted a dozen livestreaming sessions at the studio to sell fabrics. Keqiao is one of the largest textile manufacturing and trading hubs in the world. Dubbed the Textile Capital, it is full of opportunities and is attracting more and more young people to start businesses there. Photo by Kong SiqiChina Youth Daily  China Youth Net An innovative generation Zhang Songhao, , is an only child and the head of technology at a gazelle company which has achieved several firsts for China. More than  percent of its plus employees were born in the s. The company is based in Hefei, home to the University of Science and Technology of China, which is one of Chinas top universities for scitech and often referred to as Chinas Stanford. The city has also spawned Chinas Silicon Valley and is home to the countrys leading RD clusters. Teslas archrival, Nio, a Chinese electricvehicle manufacturer, has its factories in the city. Last September, Hefei was ranked among the worlds top  cities in the Nature Index C Science Cities  published by the British magazine Nature. Young people in China are no less enthusiastic about entrepreneurship than their American counterparts. Among market entities newly registered since , the number of those started by college graduates exceeded . million. Many unicorns and gazelle companies are led by young entrepreneur teams. In , China was in pole position when it comes to entrepreneurship, with , startups being created every day, according to a Bloomberg report. Even in the first half of , an average of , new market entities were set up daily in China. Local governments across China are fiercely competing with each other to attract these youngsters, and are willing to invest in them. Ting Chinghoi prepares for a rehearsal in a studio in .  Shenzhen has given me a big space for development and assistance. When the Shenzhen Youth Federation learned about our intention to start a business, it immediately showed us how to go through the necessary procedures. There is a hour selfservice administrative service station on every street. We can proceed with a simple scanning of our ID cards. Its really convenient. Ting Chinghoi C a yearold singer from Hong Kong C gradually shifted the focus of his life and work from Hong Kong to Shenzhen in . With support from local authorities, he set up a performance venue for his band in the city. Behind this upsurge in entrepreneurship is the pressure of a large number of young people entering the job market. China is setting new records yearly for its number of college graduates, with almost . million entering the labor market in  alone. The Chinese government is keeping a close eye on the youth unemployment rates in certain countries, and working hard to mobilize and encourage all necessary resources to help young people land jobs. Fortunately, the countrys booming mobile online economy has created millions of new jobs for young people. Chinas top young talents are joining the big three tech companies of Alibaba, Tencent and Meituan C known as ATM C or their competitors, including Bytedance, Xiaomi and Pinduoduo. Many more are entering a wide range of startups, becoming esports players, online writers or working in express delivery industries. The total number of people working in the sharing economy reached  million in . Although these jobs call for hard work and the pay is not always ideal, they do earn them economic independence. Wei Ya, a topselling livestreaming host, attracts considerable attention at the Hainan International Convention and Exhibition Center during the China International Consumer Products Expo in Haikou, South Chinas Hainan province, on May , . Photo by Li JuanhuiChina Youth Daily  China Youth Net Many other young people are choosing to become online hosts, with some even becoming celebrities, while livestreamed ecommerce has become a new economic growth point. In , the city of Zhuji, Zhejiang province C the largest producer of freshwater pearls in the world C invited over a hundred web celebrities to take part in livestreams to sell the citys signature product. Online sales surpassed  million yuan within two hours. Many online celebrities have offered to help poor rural areas sell their local specialties. In December , Li Jiaqi, Chinas leading livestreaming host and product endorser, sold all , kg of rice from Inner Mongolia in five seconds, sold out walnuts from Anhui province in five seconds as well as , packs of handmade noodles from Hebei province in seven seconds, raking in revenue of nearly . million yuan for more than , rural households. Wei Ya, another wellknown online influencer in China, sold out . tons of coffee from Yunnan province in two seconds of livestreaming. Zhang Wanting, a young woman from the Sibe ethnic group, poses for a photograph at the Shenyang Tanbo Art Farm in Shenbei district, Shenyang, Northeast Chinas Liaoning province, on July , . Born in , Zhang is the daughter of Zhang Aizhong, founder of the Shenyang Tanbo Art Farm. After earning a masters degree in Australia, she returned to China to pursue her career in the paddy fields. Photo by Qu JunyanChina Youth Daily  China Youth Net A green generation In addition to its huge impact on the economy, the mobile internet has made an ever bigger impact on society. It plays an important role in helping solve many problems China faces, with environmental protection being the most prominent example. During a live broadcast in November, Li Jiaqi made a sudden appeal to his viewers that they should leave the live chatroom and join a campaign to recycle cardboard boxes, taking their boxes to the ,plus courier stations and outlets across the country. The disruption cost him tens of millions of yuan in potential sales, but the social benefits were incalculable. This reflects a change and progress in Chinese social values. The younger generation of Chinese people are pursuing healthier, more ecofriendly lifestyles and showing an unprecedented enthusiasm for creating a more sustainable future, which has started to influence national policymaking. Young internet users in China are outraged at news of forests being destroyed and show their concerns about the fate of a wandering herd of wild Asian elephants in Yunnan province. Their quest for lowcarbon lives has also spawned a host of bikesharing startups, creating an unexpected revival of the Bicycle Kingdom. The enthusiasm of young people coincides with Chinas national strategy. In October , President Xi Jinping pledged to make the country carbonneutral by . After his speech, China outlined a comprehensive set of steps to achieve green development and reduce carbon emissions in its th FiveYear Plan . The term carbonneutral has quickly become a buzzword among people from all walks of life. From stateowned enterprises to private tech giants, Chinese companies have responded by setting their own energy conservation and emissions reduction targets. Ant Forest, an app that rewards users for reducing their carbon footprint launched by tech giant Alibaba in , has attracted more than  million users and planted  million trees. Meanwhile, Tencent announced its own plans in January to go carbonneutral, focusing particularly on the energy efficiency of its data centers. Thousands of young people have volunteered to plant trees and grass in western Chinas deserts, or help encourage residents to separate their garbage for recycling. The vast majority of these volunteers are students. Young people in China are more inclined to protect the environment by taking action rather than just parroting slogans. They also use technology to empower environmental protection. In , Liu Jichen, then a student at Tsinghua University, and his team developed an app called Clear Plate, which could identify whether the uploaded photos showed empty plates. If so, the users could be awarded points with which they can buy gifts or charity meals. To make the AI system smarter, Liu and his team spent more than half a year collecting over , samples from a dozen cities across the country. They officially launched the Clear Plate app in October . After two years, the app currently has more than  million users and has recorded more than  million clear plates in total, which is equivalent to reducing food waste by  tons. In September , Liu Jichen was nominated by the UN as Chinas first Young Leader for Sustainable Development Goals. Junior students from Northwest Normal University pose for a group photo with local students at Aybagh Township Middle School in Awat county, Aksu prefecture, Northwest Chinas Xinjiang Uygur autonomous region, on April , . In March , nearly  junior students from the university began a semester of volunteer teaching in the prefecture. Photo by Li JuanhuiChina Youth Daily  China Youth Net According to a report released by the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences in December , . percent of Chinese people aged  had experience as volunteers, while . percent volunteered over the past year C deemed active volunteers. This means nearly  million Chinese aged  have volunteered at some point in their lives. The report also found the most popular volunteer services for Chinese people are elderly care, environmental protection and caring for children. For those born from the s to the s, the younger the generation is, the higher the proportion of active volunteers. Close to  million young people are providing voluntary services for young people with disabilities and leftbehind children in the countryside, whose parents are working in the city more than . million youth volunteers took part in disaster relief efforts following the Wenchuan and Yushu earthquakes and millions more volunteered for major events such as the  Beijing Olympics, the  Shanghai World Expo and the G Summit in Hangzhou. An increasing number of young people in China have become aware of their capability to bring about social change, whether by going to remote villages to help locals or by donating masks for those in need during the pandemic. This confidence in themselves, the society and the country is a powerful force. Medical workers from the Peking Union Medical College Hospital are seen on their way to the airport to leave Wuhan, Central Chinas Hubei province, while a volunteer in an accompanying car holds up a sign reading, Thank you, capital. Because of you, Wuhan is not afraid, on April , . During the COVID outbreak, a total of , medical workers from across China went to Hubei province. The aid team from Peking Union Medical College Hospital was the last to leave the province. Photo by Wang JiaxingChina Youth Daily  China Youth Net A peoplefirst generation Of course, young people in China also have their own minds, with some influenced by such movements as environmentalism, feminism and new consumerism. They also have no shortage of followers on social media platforms C such as the influential Twitterlike Weibo. However, most believe existing channels are sufficient for solving their problems. In November , Chen Siyi, a student at Renmin University of China, wrote a letter to the president of the university requesting more portraits of female figures be displayed in the library. At the time there were portraits of Immanuel Kant, Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel and Ren Descartes, but not a single woman. Ten days later, Chen received a reply from the president explaining why there were no portraits of famous women, adding there were plans to include those of Marie Curie, Helen Keller, Xie Wanying penname Bing Xin, Li Qingzhao, Chienshiung Wu and Ada Lovelace. Not recognizing the last name, Chen immediately looked it up. She was surprised to discover Lovelace was the worlds first computer programmer C a profession that has traditionally been maledominated. On March , , International Womens Day, after a campuswide vote, a total of  women were selected for addition to the list of portraits, which are currently being painted. Stories like these are not just taking place on university campuses. Chinese people have their own understanding of democracy. They believe via various channels people could take part in the governments decisionmaking process, provide their insight and offer their supervision. They believe a wholeprocess consultative democracy is better than the parliamentary democracies featuring arguments and personal attacks. This is in line with Chinas traditional value that 