UK could be hit by  million additional COVID cases
2021/7/8 9:14
People, some wearing protective face masks, walk through Waterloo Station, amid the coronavirus disease COVID pandemic, in London, Britain, July , .  Govt strategy is criticized for relying on vaccination and natural infection A staggering  million United Kingdom residents could get COVID in the coming weeks, following the governments decision to end the nations lockdown on July , The Guardian has calculated. The newspaper said an additional  million people could, as a result of the sharp rise in the number of people with infections, be forced to selfisolate, causing massive disruption to the economy that, ironically, the government is trying to bolster through its termination of the lockdown. The British government has said it expects the number of new COVID cases in the nation of  million people to jump, from the current , a day to ,. Jonathan Ashworth, the opposition Labour Partys spokesperson on health issues, said the governments willingness to allow such a sharp rise in the number of infections will pile pressure on the National Health Service, or NHS, and lead to more workers calling in sick. As more people are exposed to the virus, more people will be forced to isolate themselves, he said. The governments strategy now relies on a combination of vaccination and natural infection among younger people. Munira Wilson, the health spokesperson for the Liberal Democrats party, agreed, saying younger people who do not manage to get fully vaccinated before the summer months will bear the brunt of lockdowns end. After all the pain young people have gone through, from the exam results fiasco last summer to job losses in the hospitality sector, this will feel like a bitter blow after being promised a socalled freedom day, she told The Guardian. But Health Secretary Sajid Javid, who has acknowledged the UK is heading for uncharted territory, has said the NHS will not be overwhelmed by the anticipated sharp rise in COVID cases because the success of the vaccination program means most people who get the disease will not become seriously ill. The BBC, meanwhile, said on Wednesday that the government will take its lockdown relaxation even further on Thursday by making it easier for travelers from the UK to visit other nations without the need to go into quarantine when they return. The Financial Times said two of the worlds largest airlines  British Airways and Virgin Atlantic  are preparing to play their part in the expected resurgence of the travel industry by piloting a program to fasttrack travelers who have been doublejabbed with vaccines. John HollandKaye, chief executive of Heathrow Airport, said on Radio s Today program At the moment, the main barrier to people who have been doubly vaccinated traveling  is being able to demonstrate to the government that we can check that theyve had the vaccination already. He said the airlines will have access to vaccination systems, so they will be able to verify whether travelers have had both vaccines and are considered safe. The Office for National Statistics said on Wednesday that  percent of adults in the UK now have COVID antibodies, either because of a previous exposure to the virus or because they have had a vaccine. But, against the backdrop of the UK ending most of its lockdown restrictions based on the efficacy of its vaccination program, some experts have warned that jabs are not  percent effective and that increased interaction will risk unleashing a vaccineresistant variant. Paul Nurse, a medical Nobel laureate and chief executive of the Francis Crick Institute, which has conducted COVID research throughout the pandemic, was quoted by The Independent newspaper as saying I think its not unreasonable for the government to open the country up more, given the success of the vaccine rollout. But Im really not sure its sensible to open up so much so fast when the level of infection is rising so quickly. He said his biggest fear is that the end of the lockdown could create a variant resistant to the vaccine. The British Medical Association added that it too is worried, about the prospect of the end of the lockdown exposing young Britons to a virus that could leave up to , of them with long COVID, meaning they will be sick for months.