Data indicates Pfizer less effective than expected
2021/7/8 0:00
Israels Ministry of Health has released data indicating that the PfizerBioNTech COVID vaccine may have less efficacy than first thought in preventing infection with the Delta variant of the novel coronavirus. Data collected during the past month in Israel suggests that the PfizerBioNTech vaccine is  percent effective at preventing infection from the Delta variant. It has  percent efficacy against earlier strains of the virus. Israels health authorities said the Delta variant is now responsible for more than  percent of recent Israeli COVID cases. The country reported  new cases on Monday, a  percent increase on the previous day, and  percent of the new cases occurred among vaccinated people. The results were bleaker than the findings of a realworld study published in late May by Public Health England that found the PfizerBioNTech vaccine was  percent effective against the Delta variant. The Israeli study found that PfizerBioNTechs efficacy at preventing hospitalization dipped to  percent between early June and early July, from . percent the previous month. A senior Israeli Health Ministry official said the data is concerning, according to news outlet Ynet. The official said the vaccine is probably less effective for infections and mild illness and that the authorities may consider lengthening the testing period for returnees from abroad, and will take the data into account when deciding whether to begin a thirdinjection booster vaccination program. Delta variant infections have surged in many nations in recent weeks, including the United Kingdom, where the strain is now responsible for  percent of all new cases. There were , confirmed new cases of the variant during the week ending on Friday, bringing the Delta strain case total in the UK to ,, according to Public Health England. Studies suggest that the Delta variant is  percent more transmissible than the UKs previous dominant strain, Alpha, which itself was more transmissible than the original strain of the novel coronavirus. The UK government said on Monday that daily COVID cases could reach , by midJuly. Despite the increasing case numbers, UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson said the government is ready to launch step four of its road map for easing restrictions on July . This would allow all venues to reopen with no capacity caps, and put an end to social distancing, indoor mask mandates and limits on the size of gatherings. Johnson added that although this pandemic is far from over, most hospitalized COVID patients in the UK are unvaccinated. He said the UKs vaccination campaign has greatly reduced mortality from the coronavirus. angusmail.chinadailyuk.com