COVID infections on the rise across Europe
2021/11/19 10:56
Countries try to stop increase in cases by reimposing lockdown, encouraging jabs German Chancellor Angela Merkel puts on her face mask as she leaves after addressing a press conference following a video meeting with the heads of government of Germanys federal states at the Chancellery in Berlin on Nov , . The Chancellor met with the regional leaders to discuss the ongoing Covid pandemic.  Countries across Europe are seeing a sharp rise in COVID cases, particularly among unvaccinated people, with many nations including Austria, Belgium and the Netherlands introducing measures in an effort to avoid new fullscale lockdowns. The head of Germanys infectious disease agency has warned that the nation faces a serious emergency unless steps are taken to counter the soaring number of infections. Germanys Robert Koch Institute said on Thursday that , newly confirmed cases had been reported in a single day, a new record, agencies reported. We are currently heading toward a serious emergency, the Associated Press news agency, or AP, quoted Lothar Wieler, the director of the Robert Koch Institute, as saying. If we dont act now we are going to have a really bad Christmas, he added. He also criticized Germanys politicians for not heeding warnings about the spread of the virus. Its a very clear message but after  months I just cant bear it any longer that its simply not recognized what I and many other colleagues are saying. AP reported that Wieler also said Germany needs to raise its vaccination rates from  percent to above  percent, adding that some regions of the country have even lower rates. Hospitals across the nation were struggling with capacity for COVID patients and those with other illnesses, he warned. He also called for the closure of clubs and bars, and an end to largescale events. On Thursday, Germanys lawmakers were due to debate new measures to tackle the situation, noted The Guardian. On Wednesday, Chancellor Angela Merkel said the nation was in the grip of a fourth wave of COVID infections as the number of daily cases increased sharply. The current pandemic situation in Germany is dramatic, I cant say it any other way, Merkel said. The fourth wave is hitting our country with full force. Governments across Europe are responding to the surge in cases with partial measures, reported Euronews. Nations are attempting to tackle the rise in cases with various measures, ranging from introducing lockdowns for the unvaccinated to limiting access to services, or pushing for an increase in vaccination rates, it said. Sweden will introduce a COVID vaccination pass from Dec , and the nations social affairs minister, Lena Hallengren, urged the public to get vaccinated. You who are unvaccinated cannot just carry on as normal your most important contribution is to get vaccinated, she said, according to the BBC. Vaccination rates vary from country to country across the continent, the broadcaster said. In Slovakia, the rate is among the lowest in the European Union at  percent, while the rate in the Czech Republic is  percent, and in Austria it is  percent. Austria and the Netherlands have both registered a record high number of daily infections this week. Austria introduced a lockdown for an estimated two million unvaccinated people on Monday, and the Netherlands has already brought in a partial lockdown. Belgium has reintroduced compulsory work from home measures, and Czech authorities will ban people who cannot prove vaccination or recovery from COVID from public events. The BBC noted that France reported more than , new cases on Wednesday, although a government spokesperson was quoted as saying there are no plans for measures beyond the current COVID passport as its vaccination and health pass meant it was coping better than previously.