Sugas LDP falls short in Tokyo election
2021/7/5 14:37
Here are some of the most striking images taken from around the world over the past week. Large waves are seen off Wellingtons southern coast in New Zealand on June , . An Antarctic blast swept through New Zealand starting Tuesday, whipping up waves as high as  meters near its capital citys southern coast.  A man wearing a protective face mask walks past the Sydney Opera House, seen shrouded in fog, during a lockdown to curb the spread of a COVID outbreak in Sydney, Australia on July , .  Participants attend the meeting of the Group of  ministers of foreign affairs and development in Matera, Italy on June , . Ministers of foreign affairs and development from the worlds  biggest economies on Tuesday called on the entire international community to build inclusive and resilient food chains and ensure adequate nutrition for all, in line with the goal of Zero Hunger set for .  A staff member demonstrates driving a boat remotely via G and VR technology at the booth of French company Orange at Mobile World Congress  in Barcelona, Spain on June , . One of the star technologies on show at the MWC Barcelona this week was G, the fifthgeneration technology standard for broadband cellular networks. Companies present at the major international trade fair that was called off last year due to the pandemic brought an array of Gbased technology solutions to the event, which took place between June  and July .  European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen, left, and Slovenian President Borut Pahor have a meeting in Brdo pri Kranju, Slovenia on July , . Slovenia formally took over the sixmonth presidency of the Council of the European Union on Thursday, with a focus on tackling the COVID pandemic and recovery, enhancing resilience to future crises, as well as the EUs enlargement.  A photo taken on July ,  shows the gate of Bagram Airfield after all US and NATO forces evacuated Parwan province in eastern Afghanistan. All US and NATO forces in Afghanistan have evacuated the Bagram Airfield near the Afghan capital Kabul, handing over the largest coalition base to the Afghan government troops, a spokesperson of the Afghan Defense Ministry confirmed on Friday.  Demonstrators, including Virus Truth, take part in a protest action on the Malieveld in The Hague, the Netherlands on July , , against the mandatory wearing of face masks and the testing and vaccination of children amid the COVID pandemic. The pandemic surged back in all other regions of the world by  percent in Europe,  percent in Africa,  percent in the Middle East, five percent in the United States and Canada and four percent in Asia.  A photo shows the crash site of a C military plane of the Philippine Air Force in Sulu Province, the Philippines, on July , .  People participate in a twostep dance as part of No Pride in Genocide antiCanada Day event in Toronto, Ontario, Canada on July , , to encourage reflection on Canadas treatment of indigenous people following the discovery of unmarked graves at residential schools in Canada.  A man covers his face from the dust after the demolition of the wreckage of the Champlain Tower on July ,  in Surfside, Florida. Over one hundred people have been reported missing as the searchandrescue effort continues after a residential building in Surfside partially collapsed. 