New high in Aussie states daily increase of COVID case raises questions around lockdown effectiveness
2021/7/2 14:26
Commuters wear protective face masks on public transit at Central Station following the implementation of new public health regulations from the state of New South Wales, as the city grapples with an outbreak of the coronavirus disease COVID in Sydney, Australia, June , .  SYDNEY  The Australian state of New South Wales NSW recorded on Friday a new high in daily increase of COVID cases, raising questions around the effectiveness of Sydneys current lockdown. The state recorded  locally acquired cases in the  hours to  p.m. Thursday, highest singleday increase since June  when the index case was detected, bringing the total number of the latest outbreak to . The growth of local cases also came with an increasing number of tests, as a record of , tests reported to  p.m. Thursday night, compared with the previous days total of ,. NSW Premier Gladys Berejiklian said the case numbers reflected a lag from the days before entering into lockdown. She expressed her concern over  cases that were active in the community while infectious. Last nights figure of  is concerning, and that is something that we are working to address by stressing to the community stay at home means stay at home. We are anticipating there could be an increase in numbers over the next few days, then hopefully early next week we should see the impact of the lockdown really turning and having a positive impact, she said. Chief health officer for NSW Kerry Chant did not comment on the potential for Sydneys lockdown being extended. I am not commenting at all about the future settings. What I can say is that the factors we consider closely is those infectious days in the community, she said. Chant said due to the lockdown, contact tracers were seeing a shift in the venues of concern from hospitality venues, beauticians and hairdressers to retail settings. Please dont go out and about shopping in retail, in any setting if you have got symptoms, she said. Meanwhile, the neighboring state of Queensland announced on Friday that it would extend its snap lockdown for another  hours until  p.m. Saturday for both Brisbane and the Moreton Bay Region to its north. The announcement came as Queensland detected three new cases that had spent time in the Brisbane community. This additional  hours is essential to give our contact tracers time to identify close and casual contacts, said Queenslands Chief Health Officer Jeannette Young. We need to do this to continue limiting any potential spread and keep our community safe.