ChinaEurope freight trains shoring up economic lifeline amid COVID headwinds
2021/7/2 9:29
A freight train departs from Jinhua, Zhejiang province, to Budapest, Hungary, on June .  BERLINThough the outbreak of COVID had grounded Europeans for months and impacted the economy as a whole, some sectors such as the electronics business have spotted a niche given the surging demand for laptops and other gadgets at home. Lu Hong, a local brand director of laptop manufacturer ASUS in Southwest Chinas Chongqing municipality, found such a niche and witnessed a boom in business in . But a shortage of sea freighters, price increases and unpredictable shipping times pushed him to the brink of breaking contracts. A silver lining was brought about by ChinaEurope freight trains which bolstered fragile supply chains in Eurasian countries and saved businesses in both China and Europe. Solution to supply disruption Lus company last year hired some , containers to deliver computers through ChinaEurope freight train services across the Eurasian continent. Though its prices are a little higher than seaborne shipping, the train service provided by China Railway Express CRE has the advantage of a relatively stable schedule. It takes as short as  days to get to Europe from China depending on specific departure times and destinations. Due to the pandemic containment measures, there are many disruptions of sea transportation. Now its very hard to get enough containers and prices are skyrocketing, Lu said. The past year was tough for many business operators like Lu, since volatile air and ocean freight capacities resulted in soaring shipping prices. Similarly, Chinese car manufacturer Changan Ford Automobile also turned to trains to tackle supply problems caused by the pandemic. Upon the outbreak of COVID, Changans assembly line was nearly suspended due to the delays and disruption in shipping auto supplies from Spain. The company urgently rerouted the transportation of supplies with cargo trains passing by Germanys Duisburg, which took some  days to reach Chongqing, said Zhuang Changbo, logistics supervisor at Changan Ford Automobile. It saved some  days compared to sea transportation. Antipandemic Green Passage Traffic via the CRE surged  percent yearonyear to , trains in JanuaryMarch, after topping the annual record in  with , trains, China State Railway Group said. Besides auto parts, clothes, toys and electronics, some airmail from China to Europe was also diverted to CRE trains departing from Chinese cities including Chongqing, Yiwu and Guangzhou. Notably, lifesaving medical supplies and raw materials were also transported to Europe by freight trains, when countries along the route were synergizing their efforts to combat the coronavirus. Official data showed around , metric tons of antipandemic supplies were sent through the route, with special trains carrying surgical masks, medical gloves, watersoluble bags, contactless gel dispensers and other supplies to Polands Malaszewicze, Germanys Duisburg, Madrid in Spain, and Paris in France. Volker Tschapke, honorary president of Germanys Prussian Society, called the train route an antipandemic Green Passage, saying that Europe was rather desperately encountering the first wave of COVID if you remember. Medical shortages were seen everywhere. The train routes were vital and they saved lives. Paving way for future According to official data released on Sunday, the ChinaEurope freighttrain service has recorded more than , trips. The transported goods were valued at over  billion. Since the first ChinaEurope freight train departed from Chongqing in March , the service has reached more than  cities in  European countries. Countries along the international freight route have shown growing interest in cooperation on upgrading logistics chains to speed up postpandemic recovery. Finnish Minister for Development Cooperation and Foreign Trade Ville Skinnari said that railway freight, which features much lower carbon emissions, has a clear sustainability advantage compared to other means of transport. For the companies, it is important to be able to diversify their logistical chains, add value with speed and have alternative means of transport. Especially since the COVID pandemic, the logistical chain risk is definitely something that many companies are more aware of, Skinnari said. In early June, a subsidiary of Polish State Railways PKP, started a program connecting Wroclaw, a major city in southwestern Poland, via Malaszewicze, the gateway of railway connection in Poland and Europe, with several Chinese cities including Chongqing. It is a bid by PKP to extend its transport connections. Ivan Ruzbacky, president of PKP Cargo Connect, said the new connection between Wroclaw and Chinese cities is a step to enhance connectivity under the Belt and Road Initiative. The project offers a unique opportunity to fit into global supply chains, he said. This in turn translates into a positive perception by international customers and related development and expansion opportunities.