Cartier finds great potential for luxury in China
2021/7/1 0:00
In , when Koh King Kee organized the firstever seminar on Chinas reform and openingup policy in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, he was impressed that the Chinese government officialsall members of the Communist Party of Chinawho spoke at the seminar were open, inquisitive and eager to acquire fresh knowledge. They asked me a lot of questions, including how the outside world saw China and how the country could better develop itself, he said. They were sincere and keen to interact with the outside world and learn from other peoples experience. During the following decades, Koh, president of the Centre for New Inclusive Asia, a think tank in Kuala Lumpur, has frequently been asked similar questions by CPC members and Chinese government officials. If you review the history of the CPCs  years, it is easy to see that the Party has been open in listening to different ideas and constantly trying to improve itself in its long struggle for national liberation and to improve governance of the country after the founding of the Peoples Republic of China in , especially after reform and openingup in the late s, he said. Indeed, the CPC leaderships openness to learning from advanced countries helped China find a development path suited to its national conditions and become the worlds secondlargest economy in a span of about  years, lifting domestic living standards and contributing to global economic growth, Koh said. Since the start of reform and openingup, China has lifted more than  million rural people out of poverty and has reached the poverty alleviation target set by the United Nations  Agenda for Sustainable Development  years ahead of the specified date. China has also been willing to share its experience with the world, and its achievement is a great contribution to the alleviation of global poverty, Koh said. President Xi Jinping has called on the world to work together to build a community with a shared future for mankind, based on the spirit of openness, inclusiveness, mutual respect and love for Mother Earth, Koh added. China has also proposed the Belt and Road Initiative, an international cooperation project which aims to better connect countries through policy coordination, infrastructure connectivity, unimpeded trade and investment, financial integration and peopletopeople ties, he said. The BRI is Chinas offer of public good to the world, which embodies the Silk Road spirit of peace and cooperation, openness and inclusiveness, mutual learning and mutual benefit. Message of hope In the keynote speech delivered via video link at the opening ceremony of the Boao Forum for Asia Annual Conference , Xi reiterated Chinas commitment to making the BRI a public road open to all instead of a private path owned by one single party. He said All interested countries are welcomed aboard to take part in the cooperation and share in its benefits. Belt and Road cooperation pursues development, aims at mutual benefits and conveys a message of hope. Koh said the concept of building a community with a shared future and promoting development of the BRI under the principles of extensive consultation, joint contribution and shared benefits were added to the CPC Constitution in , which best demonstrates the Partys openness. Moreover, since the onset of the COVID pandemic, China has joined the global community in combating the common enemy of mankind and extended help to many countries, such as offering vaccines and masks, which is another example of the Party and Chinese governments openness. Wang Yiwei, professor at Renmin University of China, said China has held openness as a basic State policy and put it into the countrys Constitution and the CPC Constitution as well, which is rare in the world and shows that the Party and Chinese civilization have always adhered to openness. He said the CPC has been localized in China, and sinicization means it has become integrated with the Chinese revolution and traditional culture, transforming the traditional ideals of eliminating wealth gaps and grand unity under heaven into todays building of a society with allaround moderate prosperity and realizing allaround modernization. He said the CPC has always held an open attitude in its development, and China has learned a lot from Western civilization. Traditional China has developed into modern China and is striding toward a China that faces the world, as is evident through the BRI and the idea of a community with a shared future for mankind, Wang said. He added that the CPCs openness actually drives the openness of China, as well as making a contribution to the world. For instance, Chinas highquality reform and openingup since the late s has boosted the countrys economic development and also injected vitality into the global economy. The CPCs exchanges with parties in other countries can also contribute to innovation and the development of humanitys political civilization. Merits The CPC is peoplecentric and has vowed to serve the people and make a contribution to the world thus, being open and to keep learning and innovating itself are always its merits, Wang said. Ronnie Lins, director of the ChinaBrazil Center for Research and Business, said he quickly fell in love with China and its people on his first visit many years ago. Since then, every time he has returned to China, he has been proud of the great development promoted by the CPC and the Chinese government in both urban and rural areas. Lins said the CPC has the important feature of being open, which has helped it be victorious in the past  years. Its leaders have always had a great vision of the future. They prioritized the wellbeing of people and with the processes of openness they have worked to fulfill the dreams and desires of the population, he said. He added that staying open and being willing to absorb the achievements of human civilization have always been fundamental in the CPCs history, though the dimension and context of different times have helped finetune the characteristics of the openness process. In Lins opinion, the CPC leaders have made fundamental decisions for Chinas opening and economic development, which has transformed a poor China into one of the worlds most significant commercial powers. For instance, since the start of reform and openingup, China has taken a series of measures to make itself open to the outside world. For example, the creation of special economic zones, which allowed opening that attracted substantial foreign investment and technological knowledge, and significantly boosted Chinas economic and social development. Moreover, under the leadership of the CPC, China has become more open in recent years, including as a firm believer in multilateralism, sharing its experiences of poverty eradication with the world, and holding various global events such as the China International Import Expo to strengthen exchanges worldwide. China has shown great willingness through the Party and the government to strengthen the countrys openingup process, Lins said. We have seen that the Party always knows how to open up according to the countrys development needs throughout history. Its grades and specifications are set according to the needs of times. He added that China could strengthen multilateral relations with countries and institutions globally. Chinas greater involvement with the world is an essential strategy for acquiring and disseminating knowledge and experience, he said. That is how a great country develops. Development Maria Gustava, Mozambiques ambassador to China, said the CPC has managed to adjust itself to the different stages of development and realities, based on the fundamental principles and objectives of creating favorable conditions for prosperity and better lives for the Chinese people as well as promoting ties of friendship, cooperation and solidarity with the whole world. She said the CPC has also led China in its efforts to help many colonized countries achieve independence and to promote international peace, stability and economic development, the values of equity, SouthSouth cooperation and NorthSouth cooperation, among other factors. In this context, under the CPCs leadership, China opened up, introduced reforms in order to work and cooperate with all the nations in the world independent of political system, ideology, culture, religions and level of development, based on respect, noninterference and winwin cooperation, she said. In this process, China transmitted its experience and wisdom to the world and also absorbed those things from the others. Under the CPCs leadership, China has launched many initiatives, such as the Forum on ChinaAfrica Cooperation and the BRI, to promote and deepen the ties of friendship, cooperation and solidarity with different countries, she added. Nasser Bouchiba, president of the AfricaChina Cooperation Association for Development in Morocco, said the CPCs openness can be understood from two perspectives. He said that when the CPC was founded  years ago, China was suffering from numerous unstable internal factors. The CPC vowed to safeguard national sovereignty and pursue the great cause of reunification. Its openness is reflected in the fact that it has always maintained close communications and consultation with the people in different historical periods. Externally, the feature of being extremely open lies in its tradition of noninterference in other countries internal affairs and making joint efforts with other nations through consultation, he said. He added that since the  global financial crisis, protectionism has been spreading across the world. China has proposed the BRI with the aim of boosting the development of more countries, which is also a great manifestation of openness. chenyingqunchinadaily.com.cn SONG CHENCHINA DAILY International students learn embroidery skills under the guidance of a teacher in Shenyang, Liaoning province, on March . The Belt and Road Initiative has boosted peopletopeople exchanges between China and countries involved in the initiative. YANG QINGXINHUA A ChinaEurope freight train departs from Xian, Shaanxi province for Kazakhstan in April . The China Railway Express travels from China to the Middle East and Europe, promoting international economic ties. LI YIBOXINHUA