Full text Xis keynote speech at th CIIE opening ceremony
2021/11/5 4:02
The emblem of WHO.  The World Health Organization, or WHO, has called for vaccine makers to prioritize deliveries of COVID jabs to the global vaccinesharing initiative COVAX for poorer countries, and said that no more doses should go to countries with more than  percent coverage. Speaking at the weekly media briefing on Thursday, the organizations Director General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said boosters should not be administered, except to immunocompromised people. No more COVID vaccines should go to countries that have already vaccinated more than  percent of their population, until COVAX has the vaccines it needs to help other countries get there too, Tedros said. The WHOs target is to vaccinate  percent of the population of every country by the end of this year, and  percent by mid. Tedros pointed out that most countries with high vaccine coverage continue to ignore the agencys call for a global moratorium on boosters, at the expense of health workers and vulnerable groups in lowincome countries who are still waiting for their first doses. His remarks came after the WHO had on Wednesday issued an emergency use listing for Covaxin, developed by Indias Bharat Biotech, which is the eighth vaccine to have received WHO validation for safety, efficacy and quality. The WHO head said that  months after the first cases of COVID were reported, and almost a year since the first vaccines were approved, reported cases numbers and deaths from COVID are increasing again. The global death toll as a result of the SARSCoV virus has now passed  million, and according to the WHO, last week  countries, from all regions, reported an increase in deaths from COVID of more than  percent. We cannot end the pandemic without vaccines, but vaccines alone will not end the pandemic, said Tedros. Vaccines do not replace the need for public health and social measures  they complement them. Physical distancing, avoiding crowded spaces, masks, ventilation, hand hygiene and other effective public health measures remain important in every country, he added.