Zimbabwe bans intercity travel in new lockdown restrictions
2021/6/29 9:38
Medical workers pose for photos in Guangzhous Liwan district on Monday after finishing their mission of helping the district fight the recent COVID outbreak. A ceremony was held to show the districts gratitude. CHEN CHUHONGCHINA NEWS SERVICE New technologies such as big data and artificial intelligence, as well as hightech facilities, have played a significant role in the fight against the COVID outbreak in Guangzhou, Guangdong province, officials said on Monday. Local scientific research organizations, thirdparty testing companies, smart robots and autonomous driving and flying platforms have made allout efforts in the fight against the outbreak since May, said Gao Yuyue, deputy secretarygeneral of Guangzhous city government. The city has no more high or mediumrisk areas after reporting no new locally transmitted COVID cases in the nine days to Monday, Gao told a regular news briefing. Small and mediumsized science and technology companies in Guangzhou have quickly developed a variety of novel coronavirus detection products, helping greatly enhance the citys screening capability, Gao said. For example, Guangzhou KingMed Diagnostics Group can test , nucleic acid samples a day. The city will finish a new round of citywide nucleic acid testing by Wednesday. Guangzhou can produce . million nucleic acid testing reagents,  million face masks and , protective suits a day, according to the city government. Gao said intelligent driving and autonomous air mobility facilities had helped realize nocontact distribution in affected areas. More than  autonomous driving vehicles, along with  mini logistics vehicles, have been put into use since June , helping send  metric tons of goods and materials into closedoff areas, Gao said. Advanced urban air mobility technologies have been put into operation efficiently in the fight against the novel coronavirus outbreak, said Huang Wenqian, intelligence marketing director at autonomous aerial vehicle company EHang Holdings. Four varieties of autonomous aerial vehicles from the Nasdaqlisted company, headquartered in Guangzhou, have flown above closedoff areas in the Fangcun area of the citys Liwan district since June , handling logistics, emergency transportation and patrolling, Huang said. The unmanned flights are more like an air transport channel built on both sides of the Pearl River, which runs through the citys downtown areas, helping send necessities and medical materials via nocontact distribution, Huang said. Guangzhou has introduced new measures to control and prevent the spread of COVID, including utilizing big data to identify those who have been to mediumrisk areas and become close contacts of confirmed cases, said Liang Wenqian, deputy director of the city governments data administration. A total of  locally transmitted COVID cases have been reported in Guangzhou since May, including  confirmed cases and seven asymptomatic carriers. No new locally transmitted COVID cases have been reported since June , according to the citys health commission. As of Sunday,  COVID patients had been discharged from hospital and those in critical condition had been all cleared, Chen Bin, the commissions deputy director, said.