New tech gadgets shine at Mobile World Congress
2021/6/29 9:11
People wearing face masks line up to receive the COVID vaccines at a vaccination site in Jiangxia District in Wuhan, Central Chinas Hubei province, June , .  China has now administered over  billion COVID vaccine doses, with  million administered in just one month. The country now leads the world both in terms of speed and volume of vaccines administered, accounting for nearly  percent of the total inoculations worldwide. This admirable milestone mirrors the earlier pandemic control measures taken by China. For example, early in the outbreak, China erected highcapacity temporary hospitals in just a few days, with massive information and human resources mobilized to help turn the tide. Chinas impressive vaccination drive can be attributed to a number of factors. A strong peoplecentered leadership by the Communist Party of China has seen the State engage in a successful drive to vaccinate  percent of the population by the end of June. While the threat levels in China are comparatively low, the peoples trust in governmentled programs has seen more Chinese enlist to be inoculated. China has also leveraged its strong technological and industrial capacity, enabling Chinese vaccine companies to manufacture millions of doses daily. A strong push for company and product diversification, in which China does not rely on one company or vaccine, has equally helped fuel healthy competition, leading to higher industrial output. Chinas massive vaccination campaign at home has implications abroad. First, when China achieves herd immunity, Beijing will have even more headroom to assist other countries to overcome the pandemic through vaccine supplies. The world has witnessed just how perilous it is to rely on countries with weak pandemic responses to supply vaccines. India, which was the main source of the OxfordAstraZeneca vaccines for developing countries through the COVAX initiativewhose aim is to ensure vaccine access to lowincome countrieswas forced to ban exports of the vaccines as it raced to fight a deadly new wave of COVID. Vaccine hoarding by other nations producing vaccines also was the result of the active threat of COVID in their own backyards. On the other hand, the initial slow pace of rolling out domestic vaccination in China was largely a result of the decision by China to prioritize other, more vulnerable countries. China has so far engaged in vaccine aid through donations to and direct purchases by over  countries. In Africa, where China ranks as the largest provider of COVID vaccines, more than  countries have so far received Chinese vaccines. Second, as the most enduring solution to the global health crisis, mass vaccination will ensure that Chinas productive sectors continue to operate uninterrupted. This is important, given that China accounts for  percent of global economic growth. So a stable China is crucial to world economic wellness, particularly at this time, when economic recovery remains a priority for all countries and regions. Third, vaccination success in China, the largest developing country, frees up substantial resources that could then be dedicated to solving the challenge of inoculation in other developing countries. Africa, with a population exceeding . billion, has experienced a stagnant vaccination pace. So far, just . percent of the population has been fully vaccinated, compared with  percent in North America and  percent in Europe. More countries in Africa are reporting an emergence of more contagious, deadlier virus variants, which are fueling new waves of COVID. It is therefore incumbent on wellmeaning international actors to harness existing potential to defeat the pandemic. China is setting a good example and should be emulated. The writer is a Kenyabased scholar of international relations with a focus on ChinaAfrica ties.