Online medicine purchases gain ground in China
2021/6/28 0:00
People walk in wet conditions along the waterfront near the Sydney Opera House in Sydney, Australia, on June , .  SYDNEY  Australias most populous state of New South Wales NSW on Saturday extended lockdown to more areas as local transmission in the biggest city of Sydney still increased. From  pm on Saturday, a twoweek lockdown will be imposed on Greater Sydney and some surrounding areas including Wollongong, Blue Mountains and the Central Coast, extending from the four local government areas announced on Friday. Under the new restrictions, which will last until midnight of July , people are only able to get out home for reasons including having to work or get educated outside the home, seeking medical attention, and purchasing essential goods and services. Community sport was not permitted and weddings will be banned from  pm Sunday, while funerals will be limited to one person per  square meters with a cap of  people. Masks remained mandatory for all indoor venues except home. NSW Premier Gladys Berejiklian told a press conference on Saturday afternoon that the authorities tightened the restrictions following health advice in a bid to curb the transmission given the high infectiousness of the Delta variant. When you have a contagious variant like the Delta virus, a threeday doesnt work. If were going to do this, we need to do it properly, said Berejiklian. If after seven days theres a dramatic change in the trend, well obviously evaluate the situation. But at this stage, the best health advice we have is that a twoweek period or until midnight on Friday, July , is necessary, in order to make sure that we get to our target of zero community transmission, which has always been our target from the beginning of the pandemic. Even for those who already left Greater Sydney, so long as they have been in the zone since June , they have to follow the stayathome orders for that period for the  days since they left. The states decision came after the state saw  locally acquired COVID cases in total in the latest outbreak since June , when the index case for the Bondi cluster, a driver who transported international flight crew was found to be infected with the Delta variant. The daily increase recorded on Saturday was  local cases in the  hours to  pm Friday night, among which  cases were announced on Friday morning. Berejiklian said an earlier end of the twoweek lockdown if the state could realise zero local transmission is unlikely, and she expected more cases in the coming days with the increasing exposure sites and public transport routes. The best advice from health is that we should brace ourselves for additional cases. Because the contact tracers have done such a good job in identifying potential cases and their close contacts, just from those numbers alone and how transmissible the virus is, we know that the numbers will go up in the next few days, she said. Berejiklian also flagged to offer financial support for local businesses and people in need. So nobody should feel stressed or pressured to break any of the rules because of their financial situation. The NSW government will be there to support businesses and, of course, the Commonwealth support to households kicks in as well, she said. We will provide that information and that detail in the next few days. With the NSWs latest restriction, the state of Tasmania also decided to close borders to any travelers from the Greater Sydney area from  pm Saturday.