Event showcases incredible Sanxingdui artifacts
2021/6/25 9:29
A ChinaEurope freight train loaded with antiepidemic supplies departs from Yiwu, Zhejiang province, for Malaszewicze, Poland. Photo by Gong XianmingFor China Daily BERLIN  Though the outbreak of COVID had grounded Europeans for months and impacted the economy as a whole, some sectors such as electronics businesses have spotted niches with surging demands for laptops and other gadgets at home. Lu Hong, a local brand director of laptop manufacturer ASUS in Southwest Chinas Chongqing municipality, found such a niche and witnessed a business boom in . However, before long, shortage of sea freighters, price hikes and unpredictable shipping time pushed him to the verge of breaking contracts. A silver lining brought by ChinaEurope freight trains has boosted fragile supply chains in Eurasian countries and saved businesses in both China and Europe. Solution to supply disruption Lus company last year hired some , containers to deliver computers through ChinaEurope freight train services across the Eurasian continent. Though its prices are a little higher than seaborne shipping, the train service provided by China Railway Express CRE has the advantage of a relatively stable schedule, which takes as short as  days to get to Europe from China hinging on specific departures and destinations. Due to the pandemic containment measures, there are many disruptions of sea transportation ... Now its very hard to get enough containers and the prices are skyrocketing, said Lu. The past year was tough for many business operators like Lu, since volatile air and ocean freight capacities had resulted in soaring shipping prices. Similarly, Chinese car manufacturer Changan Ford Automobile also turned to the train route, though in a reverse direction, to tackle its supply problems caused by the pandemic. Upon the outbreak of COVID, Changans assembly line was nearly suspended, due to the delay and disruption of the shipping of auto supplies from Spain. The company urgently rerouted the transportation of supplies with cargo trains passing by Germanys Duisburg city, which took some  days to reach Chongqing, said Zhuang Changbo, logistics supervisor at Changan Ford Automobile, adding, It saved some  days compared to sea transportation. Antipandemic green passage Traffic through the CRE surged  percent yearonyear to , trains in JanuaryMarch, after topping the annual record in  with , trains, according to the China State Railway Group. Besides auto parts, clothes, toys and electronics, some overstocked airmails from China to Europe are also diverted to CRE trains departing from Chinese cities including Chongqing, Yiwu and Guangzhou. Notably, lifesaving medical supplies and raw materials were also transported to Europe by freight trains, when countries along the route were synergizing efforts to combat the coronavirus. Official data showed that around , tonnes of antipandemic supplies were sent through the route, with special trains carrying surgical masks, medical gloves, watersoluble bags, contactless gel dispensers and other supplies to Polands Malaszewicze, Germanys Duisburg, Spains Madrid and Frances Paris. Volker Tschapke, honorary president of Germanys Prussian Society, called the train route an antipandemic Green Passage, noting that Europe was rather desperately encountering the first wave of COVID if you remember. Medical shortages were seen everywhere. The train routes were vital and they save lives. Paving way for future According to official data released on Sunday, the ChinaEurope freighttrain service has recorded more than , trips, with the transported goods valued at over  billion. Since the first ChinaEurope freight train departed from Chongqing in March , the service has reached more than  cities in  European countries. Countries along the international freight route have shown growing interests in cooperation on upgrading logistics chains to speed up postpandemic recovery. Finnish Minister for Development Cooperation and Foreign Trade Ville Skinnari said that railway freight  featuring much lower carbon emissions  has a clear sustainability advantage compared to other means of transport. For the companies, it is important to be able to diversify their logistical chains, add value with speed and have alternative means of transport. Especially after the COVID pandemic, the logistical chain risk is definitely something that many companies are more aware of, said Skinnari. Earlier this month, a subsidiary of the Polish State Railways PKP, in a bid to extend its transport connections, started a program connecting Wroclaw, a major city in southwestern Poland, via Malaszewicze, the gateway of railway connection in Poland and Europe, with several Chinese cities including Chongqing. Ivan Ruzbacky, president of PKP Cargo Connect, said that the new connection between Wroclaw and Chinese cities is a further step to enhance connectivity under the Belt and Road Initiative. The project offers a unique opportunity to fit into global supply chains, he said, adding, This in turn translates into a positive perception by international customers and related development and expansion opportunities.