Inactivated vaccines agile in tackling new variants, experts say
2021/6/24 16:45
About  foreigners have been vaccinated against COVID in Jinjiang, Fujian province, as of Wednesday. Photo by Li LinglingFor chinadaily.com.cn Caspar Schutte of the Netherlands said he felt quite good after being vaccinated against the COVID in Jinjiang, Fujian province, on Wednesday. Schutte and his colleague Megan Johnson from the United States visited a designated hospital for vaccination in the morning and received their second dose of the vaccine with the help of an interpreter. They completed their first dose in Xiamen, Fujian, in late May, as arranged by their employer, a foreign company in Jinjiang. I didnt have any adverse reaction after the first dose either, Schutte said. In June, Jinjiang kicked off citywide vaccinations for all foreigners, so they dont have to travel to get them. Chen Yuying, who is in charge of the COVID vaccination effort in the hospital, said they were the th and th foreigners to be vaccinated there. Johnson said the whole process was smooth and the medics were kind. She added that she felt safer while traveling after being inoculated. About  foreigners have been vaccinated against COVID in Jinjiang, Fujian province, as of Wednesday. Photo by Li LinglingFor chinadaily.com.cn Yaul Ken Mun from Malaysia, a chef in a hotel in Jinjiang, was the first foreigner in the city to complete all vaccinations in May. He said he has confidence in Chinese vaccines and felt lucky to be able to get the vaccine so conveniently. He was informed by the human resources department of the company that people working in catering, a key group for preventing the spread of the coronavirus, needed to be vaccinated first. He said he has contact with a number of people from different regions, so the vaccination is essential to protect himself and others. The workers in the hospital were very patient. Im thankful for their help, he said, adding that in the early stages the computer system was very slow to input foreigners information, but the medical workers explained patiently and assigned a worker to assist. He has worked in the city for two years. In early  when the pandemic broke out, he was required to work from home. For two months, his landlord gave him new face masks and other necessities every one or two weeks, which really touched him, he said. As of Wednesday, about  foreigners had been vaccinated in Jinjiang. All foreigners in the city aged  or older can apply for a vaccine with a valid identity document if they desire, according to the citys health commission.