Different approaches to a COVID vaccine
2021/6/24 14:19
A man wears a mask as he walks past closed shops during a lockdown aimed at limiting the spread of the coronavirus disease COVID in Harare, Zimbabwe Jan , .  Zimbabwe has deferred the reopening of schools and other learning institutions by two weeks after the weekly number of new cases spiked from  to ,. This represents a  percent increase. The surge is mostly attributable to the general complacency in adhering to the set COVID preventive and precautionary measures both in the communities and at workplaces, Information, Publicity and Broadcasting Services Minister Monica Mutsvangwa told a postCabinet briefing on Tuesday. Schools were scheduled to open next week. Teachers unions advocating for schools to reopen in midAugust when the winter season is over have hailed the delay as important for the safety of teachers and learners. Mutsvangwa said the situation in Kariba, Makonde and Hurungwe districts, which were recently placed under lockdown, has hardly improved with all the areas recording a spike in new infections. In light of the surge in new infections, targeted localized lockdowns have been introduced in many COVID hotspot areas across the country. The city of Kwekwe, which was first locked down on May  after the discovery of the Delta variant and a surge in COVID positive cases, has been placed under further lockdown. Mutsvangwa said that by June , more than , people had received their first dose of the COVID vaccine and more than , their second dose across the country. She said , doses of vaccines are expected from China on Saturday while plans are also in motion to procure  million doses of vaccines from China. Border posts, the current hotspot areas, tobacco auction floors and peoples markets will be prioritised in the next stage of the countrys vaccination program. According to the Ministry of Health, as of Tuesday, Zimbabwe had , confirmed cases of the coronavirus and , deaths. While according to the World Health Organisation, Zimbabwe is one of seven African countries that are on track to vaccinate  percent of the population by September, the country has not been spared from a third wave of COVID infections gripping the continent. By Monday, Africa had recorded more than ,, COVID cases and , deaths. About  million people have been fully vaccinated, which is less than  percent of the continents population.