Countries support China at UN Human Rights Council
2021/6/23 4:10
The voice of justice from more than  countries on human rights issues and their support for China has exposed the hypocritical mask of a few Western countries that use human rights issues to interfere in other countries internal affairs, the Foreign Ministry said in a statement on Tuesday. As Canada accused China on behalf of some Western countries at the th session of United Nations Human Rights Council on Tuesday about Chinas actions in Xinjiang Uygur autonomous region, Hong Kong and Tibet autonomous region, more than  countries have expressed their understanding and support for Chinas legitimate position in various ways. Those Western countries again failed to use issues relating to Xinjiang, Hong Kong and Tibet affairs to tarnish China, a spokesperson from the ministry said in the statement. Belarus, on behalf of  countries, delivered a joint speech at the session, stressing that respect for the sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity of all countries and noninterference in the internal affairs of sovereign states are basic norms governing international relations. The affairs of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region, Xinjiang and Tibet are Chinas internal affairs, and the outside world shouldnt interfere, according to the statement. Six members of the Gulf Cooperation Council have collectively sent a letter supporting Chinas stance, and more than  countries are ready to make separate speeches in support of China. Issues concerning Xinjian, Hong Kong and Tibet affairs have nothing to do with human rights, and China has repeatedly stated its position and detailed facts and truth, but the efforts cannot wake up those who pretend to sleep, the spokesperson said. A few Western countries are keen to fabricate rumors about China and interfere in the countrys internal affairs in the name of human rights, aiming to suppress and contain China, and such efforts are futile, the spokesperson said. The spokesperson stressed that China is firmly committed to promoting and protecting human rights as well as safeguarding national sovereignty, security, and development interests. While acting as human rights lecturers, the Western countries ignored their own human rights problems such as persecution of aboriginals, racial discrimination, gun violence and military intervention on other countries, the spokesperson noted, adding that they are in no position to accuse other countries. The spokesperson urged these countries to reflect upon and take concrete measures to solve their own human rights problems, abide by the purposes and principles of the UN Charter and the basic norms of international relations, and do good and practical things for the development of international human rights.