Coronavirus concerns to fore at athletes village
2021/6/21 9:35
 Tokyo Olympic Games athletes village foreground is pictured in Tokyo, Japan, April , .  Organizers of the Tokyo Olympics opened the athletes village to the media on Sunday, showing off apartments and a timberlaced shopping plaza where , athletes would stay and mingle during the sporting extravaganza. The oncedelayed Games are due to start on July  amid concerns that the influx of thousands of people from around the world will contribute to the spread of the novel coronavirus. Japan has avoided the kind of explosive outbreaks that crippled many other countries, but its vaccination program has been slow and the medical system pushed to the brink in parts of the country. The governments drive to hold the Games has been criticized by hospitals and doctors unions. Underscoring the concern, a Ugandan athlete arriving in Japan for a preparation camp ahead of the Olympics late on Saturday was found to be infected with the virus, public broadcaster NHK said. Athletes will be shuttled in and out of the village and be tested for the coronavirus every day. Olympic rules ban singing and chanting during events and require athletes to wear masks at all times, except when outdoors, sleeping or eating. The shopping area of the village features a cash dispenser, a dry cleaner, post office, bank and courier counter. Where you can see bare light bulbs, well install lanterns to give the area a bit more of a traditional Japanese feel, Yoshie Ogawa, a director at the Tokyo  marketing bureau, said at the start of the media tour. The wooden plaza, which draws on Japanese minimalist design aesthetics, follows the Tokyo  theme of using timber in the construction of Olympic venues, including the National Stadium. The . billion yen . million shopping area was made from , pieces of timber donated by  Japanese municipal governments. Each donated piece is marked with the name of the area that provided the wood. After the Olympics, it will be dismantled and the timber returned to the donating cities for reuse in local facilities. The apartment complex next to the shopping plaza was built on reclaimed land, and designed to house about , people in  buildings. It includes shops, a park and a school. The buildings will be converted into flats after the Olympics. The development of the housing project cost the Tokyo government  billion yen, including road works and infrastructure. Organizers were originally planning to feed residents of the village in vast dining hallsthe largest with a capacity to seat , people. Reuters