Raisi takes lead in Irans presidential election with over . mln votes
2021/6/19 15:45
Presidential candidate Ebrahim Raisi holds his mask as he arrives to cast his vote during presidential elections at a polling station in Tehran, Iran June , . PHOTOAGENCIES TEHRAN  Ebrahim Raisi, the principlist presidential hopeful, has a big lead in Irans presidential election, partial results announced by the Interior Ministry showed on Saturday. Iranian Deputy Interior Minister Jamal Orf told a press conference that . million Iranians out of some  million eligible voters participated in the election. With around  percent of the votes counted, Raisi, the incumbent Judiciary Chief, has so far garnered over . million votes in the election, followed by Mohsen Rezaei with . million. Talking in a meeting of the national committee fighting the coronavirus, the outgoing president, Hassan Rouhani, praised the participation of the voters and greeted the victory of the winner without naming Raisi. Although I will delay the official congratulations in conformity with the law, the peoples choice is already clear and he will take over the government in  days, Rouhani said, as quoted by state TV. Abdolnaser Hemmati, the reformist candidate in the election with . million votes according to the partial results, was also fast to extend his congratulations to Raisi as the winner of the election. In a message on his personal Instagram account, Hemmati expressed his hope that the new leader will make the Islamic Republic of Iran proud, and also improve the livelihood and prosperity, and provide welfare for the great nation of Iran. Presidential candidates Mohsen Rezaei and Amir Hossein Ghazizadeh Hashemi have also extended their congratulations to Raisi. On May , Irans Interior Ministry announced the names of seven candidates qualified by the countrys Constitutional Council to run for the presidential race. Diplomat Saeed Jalili, Alireza Zakani, head of Iranian Parliament Research Center, and Mohsen Mehralizadeh, former Vice President of Iran, later dropped their bid for the position.