Chinamade test kits big hit in Europe
2021/6/19 7:42
Jack Parrock, a correspondent at Euronews, tweeted a picture of the packaging of a COVID antigen test kit that all participants at the event were required to use on a daily basis. Screenshot of Jack Parrocks twitte Products in wide use at G summit that took place recently in Cornwall, UK Chinas COVID test kits have played an indispensable role in bolstering mass testing and ensuring safe group events in Europe, including the G summit that concluded in the United Kingdom on Sunday, experts said. Jack Parrock, a correspondent at Euronews, tweeted a picture of the packaging of a COVID antigen test kit that all participants at the event were required to use on a daily basis. At the bottom of the carton read Made in China. The lateral flow COVID tests we have to do every day at the G summit are Made in China, said the post. Western powers still need a bit of help from the East. Health Times, a newspaper affiliated with the Peoples Daily, said Xiamen Biotime, a company dedicated to developing and manufacturing in vitro diagnostics IVD equipment in Xiamen, Fujian province, is the producer of the test kits. On April , Xiamen Biotime exported , antigen tests worth more than  million via a ChinaEurope freight train destined for Duisburg, Germany, local media reported. Earlier in midMarch, a freight train carrying nearly , antigen tests from an unnamed biotech company in Xiamen also departed from Nanchang, Jiangxi province, for the UK via Hungary, and they would eventually be used for preliminary screening of COVID cases, according to local customs authorities. Some netizens posted pictures of free antigen tests distributed by the National Health Service, the UKs health authority, on microblogging platform Sina Weibo. The qualification certificates inside these test kits have shown that the manufacturer is Xiamen Biotime. In recent months, companies in Jilin, Shandong and Guangdong provinces have also exported their selfdeveloped antigen tests to the European market, as well as to other countries, including Nepal, Japan and Ukraine, according to media reports. Compared to nucleic acid tests that must be processed and analyzed in laboratories, antigen tests can give results on the spot in  minutes, though results are less accurate. The UK began offering free antigen tests to the public on April  in a significant step forward that paves the way for businesses and society reopening, the government said in a statement released in early April. As the host of this years G summit held in the coastal city of Cornwall from June , the UK required all attendees to take daily selfadministered tests in addition to other disease control protocols such as wearing masks and social distancing. Song Haibo, vicepresident of the National Association of Health Industry and Enterprise Management, said that amid the COVID pandemic, a number of domestic IVD companies raced to produce and export diagnostic goods, winning praise from the international community. Chinese companies manufacturing capacity is able to not only meet demand from the domestic fight against the virus, but also provide strong support to other countries, Song said. The General Administration of Customs said China had exported a total of . billion COVID test kits from March  to the end of last year. As of April ,  domestic makers of COVID tests were put on the official white list of expedited review procedures for export, according to the China Chamber of Commerce for Import  Export of Medicines  Health Products. Meng Dongping, vicepresident of the chamber, said during a forum held in early June that the white list is a proactive move by the Chinese government to facilitate foreign buyers purchase of domestic goods, which obtained positive feedback from overseas. When drafting relevant rules, the principle and attitude of the Chinese government is very clear and resolute, which is to ensure the quality and efficacy of our products, he said.