Ready for some outofthebox design thinking?
2021/6/18 13:53
An artists rendering of what Knowledge of Design Week panels, livestreamed from a ViuTV studio, might look like. Knowledge of Design Week has long been regarded as a platform that gathers experts in their field to share insights into their businesses. The event is organized by Hong Kong Design Centre with Hong Kong Design Institute and Hong Kong Polytechnic Universitys School of Design. Its lead sponsor is Create Hong Kong. With the pandemic still casting its shadow over proceedings, this years format blends  forum sessions with eight workshops, both livestreamed hybrids featuring more than  local and global speakers. This year, entrepreneurs and creatives from the fields of hospitality, healthcare, ecommerce and digital solutions will come together to give their take on how the service economy can benefit from humancentric design. The speakers include Singaporebased hospitality legend Adrian Zecha, Hong Kong designer Joyce Wang, Keith Yates from Thailand and Ron Swidler from the Gettys Group in the United States. Designer Joyce Wang sees a shift toward creating enhanced guest experiences since the pandemic. PHOTO PROVIDED TO CHINA DAILY We will be addressing new hospitality landscapes and discussing the future for these spaces  for the now and far beyond, Wang says. Ill be touching upon how good design can inspire a realm of new possibilities and lasting solutions, and the approach our studio takes to crafting memorable interiors shaped around the guest experience. There is definitely a renewed energy and spirit across the design world a desire to do something different, a shift toward an increasingly global perspective and renewed sense of collaboration across borders, she adds, noting how the hospitality industry is embracing remote work. Philips head of design for ASEAN Pacific, Cheaw Hwei Low, will speak on how the pandemic spurred more people to embrace virtual healthcare. He will be joined by architect Reinier de Graaf of Rotterdams OMA, Jeremy Myerson and Rama Gheerawo from Londons Royal College of Art, and Chingchoi Lam from Hong Kongs Elderly Commission. ViuTV is committed to airing wellnessrelated content, says general manager Lofai Lo. PHOTO PROVIDED TO CHINA DAILY During KODW, I will be sharing a project where we look into probable future healthcare scenarios, Low reveals. It will demonstrate how designcentric thinking is critical at Philips and how it applies to the healthcare sector. Whilst we are overwhelmed and occupied in tackling todays pandemic challenges, we still need to have a view into the future and prepare for it. Lofai Lo, director and general manager of ViuTV, will be joined by other Hong Kong based entrepreneurs including Eric Gnock Fah of travel and leisure booking platform Klook, Juliette Gimenez of online fashion portal GOXIP and Yat Siu of blockchain gaming giant Animoca. Cheaw Hwei Low of Philips Design says the pandemic spurred the growth of virtual healthcare. PHOTO PROVIDED TO CHINA DAILY ViuTV has responded to the needs of people spending more time indoors with a wide variety of content. We believe that content is king, no matter if it is consumed online or offline, Lo states. ViuTV offers a wide range of genres to keep viewers of all ages entertained, and we are committed to bringing health and wellnessrelated content to audiences during the pandemic. As people spend more time at home, we have programs that offer tips and information on health in Know Your Ingredients or Fad or Fact. On the entertainment side, we recently hosted the Miss Mask Pageant, which echoed the current pandemic situation while providing a fresh take on beauty contests.