Easing in US coincides with virus milestone
2021/6/17 0:00
The United States passed the milestone of , COVID deaths on Tuesday as New York and California, the nations most populous state and the first in the country to put in place a coronavirus lockdown, lifted most of their restrictions. The death toll was revealed as the country largely returns to prepandemic life because of the vaccine rollout. Hundreds of people though are still dying daily, and vaccine hesitancy and procrastination are posing a threat to reaching herd immunity. As of Wednesday, more than , people in the US have died of complications brought on by the coronavirus, according to Johns Hopkins University data. The total number of lives lost in the US is about equal to the number of US residents who died of cancer in . Brazil and India have reported the next highest death tolls, with Brazil at more than , and India at more than , on Wednesday. Worldwide, COVID deaths stand at over . million. All  US states have loosened or eliminated lockdown restrictions over the past month, including mask mandates and capacity restrictions on restaurants and other businesses. On Tuesday, California lifted most of its restrictions. In New York,  percent of adults have received at least one dose of a coronavirus vaccine. Governor Andrew Cuomo on Tuesday announced nearly all restrictions on businesses and social gatherings have been eliminated. With the arrival of vaccines in midDecember, COVID deaths per day in the US have plummeted to an average of around , from a high of over , in midJanuary. Since May , more than , people in the US have died from COVID, data from Johns Hopkins University showed. Cases are running at about , a day on average, down from a quartermillion daily over the winter. The actual number of deaths in the US and around the globe is thought to be significantly higher by some health experts because many cases have been overlooked or possibly concealed by some countries. It took just a month for the US to jump from , to , COVID deaths. In late February, it became the first country to surpass a halfmillion coronavirus deaths. In the US, death from COVID is almost entirely preventable, Ajay Sethi, an associate professor at the University of WisconsinMadison, told The Wall Street Journal, citing access to vaccines in the country. Crossing the , milestone is a sobering reminder that the virus is still spreading and that there are still too many people unvaccinated. More than . million people in the US have been fully vaccinated, . percent of the population, the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, or CDC, said. Some . percent of people in the US above age  have received at least one dose of a vaccine, the CDC added. At its peak in midApril, an average of nearly . million vaccines were being administered daily, CDC data showed. By May, about . million were being administered, a drop of  percent. The daily rate of vaccinations fell below  million doses for the first time earlier this month. Vaccination hesitancy A Gallup poll released last week found that  in  people in the US still did not want to get vaccinated against COVID, citing a lack of trust in the shots or concern about side effects. NBC News reported on Monday that the vast majority of COVID patients in US hospitals were unvaccinated. The Kaiser Family Foundations ongoing vaccine monitor shows  percent of adults do not intend to get the vaccine unless required, and  percent are on a waitandsee mode. Thats nearly onethird of the countrys adults expressing reluctance. Scientists generally estimate reaching herd immunity, the threshold beyond which the virus cant easily pass from person to person, would require the US to fully vaccinate  percent to  percent of its residents. The vaccination hesitancy has sparked measures like lotteries and giveaways in states eager to get people signed up for jabs. Ohio has been selecting one vaccinated resident each week to win  million. US President Joe Biden has set a goal of vaccinating  percent of US adults with at least one dose of a COVID vaccine by July . But it appears unlikely that benchmark will be met. While  states have reached that threshold, others are lagging, especially in the Southeast. aihepingchinadailyusa.com Patrons enjoy indoor dining in a Los Angeles restaurant on Tuesday as most restrictions are rolled back. XINHUA