NY, Calif. emerge as virus deaths top k
2021/6/16 10:30
Rep Ilhan Omar DMN wipes her tears as members of Congress observe a moment of silence for the , American lives lost to the coronavirus disease COVID, outside the US Capitol in Washington, June , .  New York, the original US epicenter for COVID, and California, the nations most populated state and the first state in America to put in place a coronavirus lockdown, lifted most of their restrictions as the country passed , COVID deaths Tuesday. The death toll of , happened as the country has largely returned to prepandemic life because of the vaccine rollout, although hundreds of people are still dying daily, and vaccine hesitancy and procrastination are posing a threat to reaching herd immunity. As of Tuesday, , people in the US have died of complications brought on by the coronavirus, according to Johns Hopkins University data. The total number of lives lost in the US is about equal to the number of Americans who died of cancer in . Brazil and India have reported the next highest death tolls, with Brazil at more than , deaths and India at more than ,. Worldwide, the COVID death toll stands at about . million. All  states have loosened or eliminated remaining lockdown restrictions over the past month, including mask mandates and capacity restrictions on restaurants and other businesses. On Tuesday, California, the nations most populous state and the first state in America to put in place a coronavirus lockdown, lifted most of its restrictions. In New York, the original US epicenter,  percent of adults have received at least one dose of a coronavirus vaccine, and Governor Andrew Cuomo on Tuesday announced that nearly all restrictions on businesses and social gatherings have been eliminated. With the arrival of the vaccine in midDecember, COVID deaths per day in the US have plummeted to an average of around , from a high of more than , in midJanuary. Since May , according to data from Johns Hopkins University, more than , Americans have died from COVID. Cases are running at about , a day on average, down from a quartermillion per day over the winter. The actual death tolls in the US and around the globe are thought to be significantly higher by some health experts because many cases have been overlooked or possibly concealed by some countries. It took just a month for the US to jump from , to , COVID deaths. In late February, it became the first country to surpass a halfmillion coronavirus deaths. That it has taken more than three months to reach , deaths is a reflection of the slowing pandemic as more people get vaccinated. In the US, death from COVID is almost entirely preventable, Ajay Sethi, an associate professor at the University of WisconsinMadison, told The Wall Street Journal, citing access to vaccines in the country. Crossing the , milestone is a sobering reminder that the virus is still spreading and that there are still too many people unvaccinated. More than . million people in the US have been fully vaccinated C . percent of the population, according to the CDC. And . percent of people in America above age  have received at least one dose of vaccine, according to the CDC. At its peak in midApril, an average of nearly . million vaccines were being administered daily, according to CDC data, but by May, about . million were being administered, a drop of  percent. The daily rate of vaccinations dropped below  million doses for the first time earlier this month. A Gallup poll released last week found that  in  Americans still didnt want to get vaccinated against COVID  most commonly citing a lack of trust in the shots or concern about side effects. NBC News reported Monday that the vast majority of COVID patients currently in US hospitals were unvaccinated. The Kaiser Family Foundations ongoing vaccine monitor shows  percent of adults dont intend to get the vaccine unless required, and  percent are on a waitandsee mode. Thats nearly onethird of the countrys adults expressing reluctance. Scientists generally estimate that reaching herd immunity, the threshold beyond which the virus cant easily pass from person to person  would require the US to fully vaccinate  percent to  percent of its residents. The vaccination hesitancy has sparked measures like lotteries and giveaways in states eager to get people signed up for jabs. Ohio has been selecting one vaccinated resident each week to win  million. On Tuesday, California will give . million each to  residents. Other winnable items include alcohol, cannabis, guns, food vouchers and gift cards. President Joe Biden has set a goal of vaccinating  percent of US adults with at least one dose of a COVID vaccine by July , but it appears unlikely that benchmark will be met. While  states have reached that threshold, others are lagging, especially in the Southeast. The White House is also working to boost vaccinations. As part of a national tour to raise awareness, VicePresident Kamala Harris traveled to South Carolina  a state with a relatively low vaccination rate  to visit a popup medical clinic on Monday. They are safe. And they are free. And they are effective. And it is that simple, Harris said during her visit.