Novavax may have th COVID vaccine in US
2021/6/15 12:00
Vials labeled COVID Coronavirus Vaccine and syringe are seen in front of displayed Novavax logo in this illustration taken, Feb , .  The American biotech company Novavax announced on Monday that its vaccine is safe and  percent effective at preventing both moderate and severe coronavirus infection. Novavaxs COVID vaccine showed an overall efficacy of . percent in a ,person clinical trial conducted in the US and Mexico. There were no cases of hospitalization or death among people who received the vaccine during the trials. The news comes as the US approaches , COVID deaths, according to the most recent Johns Hopkins University data. My heart goes out to those whove lost a loved one. ... We have more work to do to beat this virus, and nows not the time to let our guard down, US President Joe Biden said on the sidelines of NATO meetings in Brussels. Still, the sevenday COVID death average in the US has fallen by almost  percent from its January peak, Reuters data showed. The Novavax shots also may be the most tolerable yet tested, according to The Washington Post. Side effects included fatigue, headaches and muscle pain, but adverse reactions tended to be less frequent than those triggered by some already authorized vaccines. Novavax said in a statement that it planned to apply to the Food and Drug Administration FDA for authorization in the third quarter, which begins in July. That would add a fourth vaccine to the US. The company already has completed a phase  trial in the UK, but the US trial results are required to apply for emergencyuse authorization in this country. Its really very impressive, said Anthony S. Fauci, the director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, noting that the vaccine was on par with the most effective shots developed during the pandemic. Its very important for the worlds population to have, yet again, another highly efficacious vaccine that looks in its trial to have a good safety profile. The company has an inventory of tens of millions of doses and plans to scale up to manufacturing  million doses a month by the end of September. It expects to hit its target of  million doses a month in the last three months of the year, according to the Post. Novavaxs coronavirus vaccine, called NVXCoV, is given in two doses,  days apart. It differs from the three vaccines already in use in the US. The Novavax vaccine relies on what is called recombinant nanoparticle technology and Novavaxs adjuvant, called MatrixM, to stimulate an immune response, according to CNN. While the Pfizer, Moderna and Johnson  Johnson vaccines all work by providing genetic instructions for the body to build the coronavirus spike protein, which the immune system learns to recognize and fight, the Novavax vaccine skips the instructions and delivers the spike protein directly to the body, according to NBC News. But at this point, the nation has already secured enough doses of the three vaccines currently available in the US. The vaccination rate in the country has slowed in recent weeks, further diminishing the need for additional COVID vaccines. Even though it is unlikely that Novavaxs shots will be used as the first line of defense in the US, they still could be used in the future. I think particularly in the United States, our vaccine is going to be most importantly used as a booster vaccine, Stanley Erck, Novavaxs CEO, said Monday during a call with investors. Novavax continues to work with a sense of urgency to complete our regulatory submissions and deliver this vaccine, built on a well understood and proven platform, to a world that is still in great need of vaccines, Erck said in a statement on Monday. Novavax won a . billion contract for  million doses from the Trump administrations Operation Warp Speed. The Gaithersburg, Maryland, company has never produced a vaccine cleared by regulators in its year history. While new COVID cases are declining across most of the US, eight states are seeing increases, and seven of them have belowaverage vaccination rates. Alabama, Arkansas, Hawaii, Missouri, Nevada, Texas, Utah and Wyoming have seen their sevenday rolling averages for infection rates rise from two weeks earlier, according to Johns Hopkins University. All of them except Hawaii have recorded vaccination rates that are lower than the US average of  percent fully vaccinated, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention CDC. Meanwhile, California will be fully reopening Tuesday, lifting most social distancing curbs after administering more than  million vaccine doses. Its been a long road, but our future is BRIGHT, said Governor Gavin Newsom in a Sunday tweet, adding that the nations most populous state had injected  million more shots than anyone else. From Tuesday, businesses in California can open to the public at full capacity and relax their social distancing and masking requirements for customers. People who havent been vaccinated still will be required to wear a mask in many situations. A negative test or proof of vaccination will be required for indoor events that host more than, people, according to the states Public Health Department. California has one of the lowest COVID infection rates in the country, and  percent of people have had at least one shot. Despite the reopening, Newsom still maintains the state of emergency, which gives him extra authority to issue new laws relevant to the emergency.