Latest on the COVID pandemic
2021/6/15 9:23
Fast spread of novel coronavirus delta variant has put lockdown end on hold British Prime Minister Boris Johnson holds a news conference regarding Englands COVID lockdown easing delay in London, Britain, June , .  British Prime Minister Boris Johnson confirmed at a news conference on Monday evening that the proposed date for England to finally come out of novel coronavirus pandemic lockdown measures, scheduled for June , was being put back by four weeks. The decision comes after weeks of growing concern about the feasibility of the socalled roadmap out of lockdown, unveiled on Feb . At the time, Johnson called it a oneway road to freedom, with milestones along the way of certain conditions needing to be met and the partial lifting of limitations, culminating in June  as the day when measures such as social distancing and the wearing of masks could finally be ditched. The plan, he said, was cautious but irreversible and at all times, he insisted, decisionmaking would be led by data not dates. One date that was fixed in the proposal was June  as the day when a final decision would be made on what would happen on June , and despite the widespread success of the rollout of the vaccination program, it is felt that the time is not yet right, and the date has now been switched to July . A cabinet meeting took place before a formal announcement on Monday evening, and Sky News quoted a senior source in attendance as calling for one last heave it is a straight race between the vaccine and the virus. The main reason for progress having been hamstrung is the extent of the spread of the delta variant of the virus, which was initially identified in India, a country that has suffered massively because of the pandemic. That variant is now responsible for more than  percent of cases in England, and according to Public Health England, it is as much as  percent more transmissible than the socalled alpha variant, first identified in England. Despite the highprofile nature of the outbreak in India, the country was only added to the United Kingdom red list of countries facing travel restrictions on April , two weeks after neighbors Bangladesh and Pakistan were put on the list. As late as April , Johnson was forced to cancel a trip to India at a weeks notice, on the same day that the Guardian reported more than , new cases of the virus had been logged in India. In February, the government published a joint document with the Indian government, announcing an enhanced trade partnership, as part of efforts to secure a new trade deal, and critics say Johnsons determination to speed up progress toward such a big postBrexit trade prize may have influenced the decision to allow travel between the two countries to continue for so long. Speaking on Sky News, health minister Edward Argar said I know that weddings and people in that situation will be very much in his the PMs mind at the moment and its one of the things hes been looking at carefully, he said.