Europe sees glimmer of hope on tourism
2021/6/14 16:53
A Union flag hangs across a street of houses in London, on June , .  The United Kingdoms prime minister has explained why the nations remaining novel coronavirus lockdown restrictions will likely not be swept away on June . The day has long been marked on the countrys road map out of lockdown restrictions as when maskwearing and social distancing might be consigned to the history books. But Boris Johnson has also consistently said he will only fully end the lockdown if it is safe to do so. On Saturday, he said that June  deadline had become unlikely, given that the vaccination program needed a boost in the race between the vaccines and the lockdowns in the wake of the fast UK spread of the delta variant. Johnson told Sky News the variant that was first identified in India was a matter of serious, serious concern. And he told ITV News We need to make sure we give the vaccines extra legs  What were wanting to do is avoid another wave of deaths that could be prevented, by allowing the vaccines to work in the way that they are. He is, however, under heavy pressure from lawmakers in his ruling Conservative Party to end the lockdown on June  and allow the economy to get moving again, despite dire warnings from experts, known as modelers, that it is too soon. The Daily Telegraph quoted lawmaker Steve Baker, deputy chairman of a faction in the party known as the Covid Recovery Group, as saying It is increasingly clear that the modelers are our masters now ... Boris Johnson will need to be extremely careful he doesnt allow them to lead us into a lockdown that lasts all winter. The paper said some lawmakers fear a lockdown would be needed all winter if one is in place in September. Johnson was briefed on his options on Saturday, alongside Chancellor of the Exchequer Rishi Sunak, Cabinet Office Minister Michael Gove, and Health Secretary Matt Hancock. He was set to meet senior ministers on Sunday evening to make his final decision before announcing it on Monday. The Scientific Advisory Group for Emergencies, which is known as Sage and which comprises academics and scientists, has advised the government on a delay of at least four weeks. But James Ward, a mathematician who is a member of Sage, conceded to The Telegraph newspaper that there is some truth in the idea that a longer delay could miss the sweet spot and lead to a winter of lockdown. If were going to have to manage another wave, the summer is probably the best time to do it, he said With the schools and universities closed, we can spread things out. It wont necessarily change the number of people who die or the number who end up in hospital very much but it squashes the peak. But he said a delay extending into September would trigger an exit wave in October and November, which is when seasonal factors would exacerbate the problem. The NHS is under more pressure then and theres potential to get quite a nasty winter wave, he said. The Financial Times said Chris Whitty, Englands chief medical officer, had advised Johnson that a fourweek delay would be optimal.