Englands full reopening delayed by four weeks
2021/6/12 22:17
Airport staff members unload the first batch of Chinese Sinovac vaccine raw materials from a plane at the Cairo International Airport in Cairo, Egypt, May , .  Question It is reported that announcement will be made at the G summit on the provision of  billion doses of vaccine to countries in need. What has China done in international cooperation on fighting the pandemic? What measures has China taken in this regard? Embassy Spokesperson As we can see, the COVID pandemic is still rampaging in the world. There have been frequent mutations of the virus and a marked rise in confirmed cases in some countries. We hope that the developed countries will provide more assistance and support to developing ones, and that the relevant countries will actually deliver their pledge of assistance. China sets great store by international cooperation in response to COVID. While striving to put the pandemic under effective control at home, China has mounted a massive global humanitarian operation. Notwithstanding the limited production capacity and enormous demand at home, China has provided free vaccines to more than  developing countries that are in urgent need and exported vaccines to  countries. We have delivered  million doses to global partners, more than any other country in the world. In the meantime, China has provided  billion US dollars to assist developing countries in their response to the pandemic and economic and social recovery, and sent medical supplies to more than  countries and  international organizations. China has announced to provide the first consignment of  million doses to COVAX designated for emergency use in developing countries, of which the first batch rolled off production line not long ago. China has also supplied the world with more than  billion masks, . billion protective suits and  billion testing kits. Chinese hospitals have paired up with  African hospitals to offer assistance through cooperation. The Africa CDC headquarters project was launched at the end of last year and is being built with Chinese assistance. China has also joined hands with the United Nations to set up a global humanitarian response depot and hub in China, and this project is making important progress. China is fully implementing the G Debt Service Suspension Initiative for Poorest Countries and has so far deferred repayment of more than . billion US dollars worth of debt. This is the highest deferral amount among the G members. Going forward, China will provide an additional  billion US dollars in international aid over the next three years to support COVID response and economic and social recovery in other developing countries. China will also support its vaccine companies in transferring technologies to other developing countries and carrying out joint production with them. Having announced support for waiving intellectual property rights on COVID vaccines, China supports the World Trade Organization and other international institutions in making an early decision on this matter. China proposes setting up an international forum for vaccinedeveloping and producing countries, companies and other stakeholders to cooperate on vaccines and explore ways of promoting fair and equitable distribution of vaccines around the world. This will enable the countries of the world to move ever closer towards building a global community of health for all and securing a healthier and brighter future for humanity.