Technology helps Guangzhou defeat virus
2021/6/9 19:19
Emerging technologies and hightech facilities have played an important role in the fight against the coronavirus outbreak in Guangzhou, Guangdong province, officials said. Hightech facilities including drones, robots and selfdriving vehicles have been put into use in the control and prevention of the COVID pandemic since the city reported the first confirmed case in this new round of coronavirus on May , said Chen Jianhua, chief economist of the Guangzhou Industry and Information Technology Bureau. Logistics service by autonomous driving vehicles have covered Baihedong and Zhongnan subdistricts, two highrisk areas, and the selfdriving service will be expanded to some mediumrisk areas, Chen said. As of Tuesday,  selfdriving vehicles and  small logistics delivery vehicles have provided service in closedoff areas, helping distribute . tons of medical materials and daily necessities, Chen said. A number of companies engaged in the technology of artificial intelligence and autonomous driving have had close cooperation with the local authorities to provide efficient service in the fight against the coronavirus outbreak, Chen said, adding that Guangzhous production of epidemic prevention materials has been sufficient to meet the need. Currently the citys production capacity to make nucleic acid testing reagents, face masks and protection suits are . million,  million and , per day, respectively. We have organized selfdriving vehicles to promote the use of autonomous logistics service in highrisk areas during the fight of the coronavirus outbreak, said Mo Luyi, vicechairman of Pony.ai, an autonomous vehicle startup in Guangzhou. According to Mo, goods that are being distributed by the autonomous vehicles are mainly epidemic prevention materials such as face masks, daily necessities, food and water. Guangdong logged eight locally transmitted confirmed COVID cases on Tuesday, according to provincial health authorities. The eight cases were reported from Guangzhou, including one previously categorized as an asymptomatic carrier. As of Tuesday, Guangzhou has reported  locally transmitted cases, including  confirmed cases and nine asymptomatic carriers since the city reported its first case on May  in the latest round of the pandemic.