Cool cultural treasures pop with style
2021/6/9 15:11
Ice cream pops in shape of the lotus in the Old Summer Palace in Beijing, on June , .  Ice pops shaped like local landmarks or historical treasures have gone viral on Chinese social media, as tourist attractions aim to enhance visitors experience with creative cultural products. In the Sanxingdui Museum in Sichuan province, ice cream bars in the shape of its iconic Bronze mask catch the eye of visitors. The sweet treat comes in two flavors bronze matcha and excavation chocolate. The Temple of Heaven in Beijing debuted ice pop miniatures shaped like the ancient building last year, encouraging tourists to take pictures of the sites. Chinese tourist sites and cultural institutes have invested heavily in the development of creative cultural products, which is believed to have contributed to the boom in cultural tourism in recent years, Xinhua news agency reported. The trendy, unique and creative cultural products like the ice cream have won over many consumers in the younger generations, Zhou Yunqing, a sociology professor at Wuhan University told Xinhua. It is also a sign of Chinas growing cultural confidence. The ice cream pops rolled out by the Sanxingdui Museum in Sichuan province come in two flavors  bronze matcha and excavation chocolate.  Weibo account of Sanxingdui Museum A visitor takes photos of an ice pop shaped like an ancient building in the Temple of Heaven, on May , .  An ice pop shaped like an ancient building in the Temple of Heaven, on May , .  Tourists show the ice cream pops in shape of the lotus and auspicious animals in the Old Summer Palace in Beijing, on June , .  A cherry blossomshaped ice pop in Yuyuantan Park in Beijing, on April , .  Ice pops in the shape of historical treasures are sold in the National Museum of China, on Sept , .  A woman eats ice cream in the Palace Museum in Beijing, on Aug , .  Ice cream pops shaped like auspicious animals in the Palace Museum in Beijing, on Aug , .  A tourist takes photos of ice pops in shape of the Zhengyangmen Gate Tower in Beijing, on Aug , .  A worker shows the ice pop shaped like ancient buildings in Zhuozhengyuan Garden in Suzhou, Jiangsu province, on July , .  Creative ice cream pops are seen in Hangzhou, Zhejiang province, on July , .  Flowershaped ice cream pops go into market during the China Flower Expo in Shanghai, in May, .  Photo taken on May , , shows an ice pop held in front of its prototype  the Yanghu Water Street in Changsha, Hunan province.  Photo taken on May , , shows an ice pop shaped like the Yueyang Tower in Hunan province. 