Let the Breeze of Openness Bring Warmth to the World
2021/11/4 9:52
Michelle Wu speaks to supporters at an election night event on Tuesday in Boston, Massachusetts. BRIAN SNYDERREUTERS Republican gains in Virginia signal threat for Biden in midterm elections FAIRFAX, VirginiaRepublican Glenn Youngkin won the election for Virginia governor and another Republican was within striking distance in New Jerseys gubernatorial contest on Wednesday. The demonstration of support for the GOP portends dangers for President Joe Bidens Democrats as they head into congressional elections in the United States next year. Youngkin, a former private equity executive who surged in the polls in the campaigns final weeks, beat Democratic former governor Terry McAuliffe, The Associated Press reported. The elections were the first major tests of voter sentiment since Biden took office in January. And they offered stern warnings heading into the midterm elections that the partys thin majority in Congress was in peril. Having never held elected office, Youngkin sold himself as a political outsider while seeking to rally suburban voters around hotbutton issues like how to handle the discussion of racism in schools and COVID mask mandates. The election, a neckandneck tussle for weeks, resonated nationwide as a proxy war between Biden and former president Donald Trump, who gave Youngkin his early backing, Agence FrancePresse commented. During the campaign, Youngkin stated his support for election integrity, a nod at Trumps claim that the  presidential election was stolen, while also focusing on education and businessfriendly policies. He never campaigned in person with Trump, successfully challenging McAuliffes effort to cast him as a clone of the former president. Trump, meanwhile, sought to claim credit for Youngkins victory. I would like to thank my BASE for coming out in force and voting for Glenn Youngkin. Without you, he would not have been close to winning, he said in one of three statements about the race on Tuesday. Youngkin will succeed outgoing Governor Ralph Northam, a Democrat. Under Virginia state law, governors cannot serve consecutive terms. McAuliffe, , served as governor from  to . Youngkin struck a careful balance when it came to Trump, accepting the former Republican presidents endorsement but avoiding frequent mention of him on the campaign trail. The strategy could offer a road map for Republicans trying to woo back suburban moderates in the  elections, Reuters commented. Voters in Virginia cited the economy as their top concern, according to an exit poll by CNN, ahead of education, taxes and the pandemic. In New Jerseys closerthanexpected governor race, Republican Jack Ciattarelli held a narrow lead over incumbent Democrat Phil Murphy with about  percent of the vote tallied, though some Democratic strongholds were still counting ballots. Murphy was trying to become the first Democrat reelected to the office in  years. AsianAmerican mayors Elsewhere in the country on Tuesday, mayoral contests helped shape the leadership of some of the nations largest cities. Democratic former police captain Eric Adams won in New York, and Boston voters elected city councilor Michelle Wu, the citys first female AsianAmerican mayor. Cincinnati is getting its first AsianAmerican mayor, Aftab Pureval. Adams, who will become the second black mayor of the largest US city, first triumphed this summer in a crowded Democratic primary after he struck a nuanced stance on law enforcement issues. His message on crime and his experience as a police officer insulated him from attacks from his Republican opponent Curtis Sliwa, the founder of the Guardian Angels anticrime patrol group. In Boston, Wu, a Democrat, espoused a more liberal approach to policing and called for bigger reforms, but her historymaking win came in a campaign dominated more by debates about issues such as affordable housing. Agencies and China Daily contributed to this story.