China takes spot of UK top import source
2021/6/5 7:54
The Big Ben in central London, Britain.  Nation replaces Germany as British trade with the EU affected by Brexit China has replaced Germany to become Britains biggest source of imports for the first time since modern records began in . The United Kingdoms goods imports from China reached . billion pounds  billion in the first quarter of this year, data from the British Office for National Statistics showed. Its imports from Germany fell to . billion pounds in the same period, which is believed to have resulted from disrupted UKEU trade after Brexit. Figures from the UKs Revenue and Customs showed China registered the secondlargest value increase monthonmonth in March and the largest value increase in yearonyear terms in the same month. That is up to  million pounds and . billion pounds respectively. The customs data also revealed China accounted for  percent of the total value of goods the UK has imported. This was an increase from . percent in March . With the pandemic and Brexit, economists say its hard to tell if the trend will persist. Its hard to make definite conclusions from a year during which the UK has experienced not only Brexit, but also the worst experience with the pandemic in Europe in terms of deaths per capita. So we would need to watch the trends for another year at least to find normal patterns, said Gayle Allard, a professor of economics at IE University in Spain. She added Initially, it looks like Brexit and the supply constraints coming from the pandemic have been very favorable for Chinese exports. Remember that after Brexit, EU products lost some of their cost advantage in the UK. Chris Rowley, a business professor at the University of Oxford, said UKChina trade relations have been tense in the light of strained diplomatic relations, but trade will continue. Nevertheless, there are trade opportunities, moving beyond more traditional ones, such as foods and drinks, to sectors ranging from pharmaceuticals and aerospace to green energy, said Rowley, who is also a professor at the Graduate School of Education of Tohoku University in Japan. Analysts say Brexit should create more opportunities for UKoriented Chinese exporters. The pound has fallen since the Brexit vote, making EU goods more expensive, and some EU inputs for products manufactured in the UK will also be too expensive. Supply chains will be broken for many products and will need to be remade, Allard said. In a separate report, Office for National Statistics data showed the UK imported more goods from China than from any other country since the second quarter of . Rare growth The ONS said that out of the UKs top five import partners, China is the only one from which imports grew between the first quarter of  and the first quarter of . Imports of goods from China accounted for . percent of UK goods imports in the first quarter of , having increased by . percent compared with the first quarter of , exhibiting a larger increase than exports, the report said. Goods imports from China had continued to show an upward trend throughout . The increase in imports from China in  was boosted by textile fabrics for face masks and personal protective equipment. The ONS added increasing demand for commodities produced by China such as electronic goods likely explains the increasing imports seen in . The pandemic has had an impact here as China has come back earlier and stronger economically than other countries. So, there may be some catchup from others postpandemic. Nevertheless, the faster growing economies and markets remain in Asia, Rowley said.