China takes top spot as import source for UK
2021/6/4 9:18
Nation replaces Germany as British trade with European Union is influenced by Brexit The latest statistics show that China has replaced Germany to become Britains biggest source of imports for the first time since modern records began in . The United Kingdoms goods imports from China reached . billion pounds  billion in the first quarter of this year, data from the Office for National Statistics showed. Its imports from Germany fell to . billion pounds in the same period, which is believed to have resulted from disrupted UKEU trade after Brexit. Figures from the HM Revenue and Customs of the UK showed that China registered the secondlargest value increase monthonmonth in March and the largest value increase in yearonyear terms in the same month. That is up  million pounds  million and . billion pounds respectively. HMRC also revealed that China accounted for  percent of the total value of goods that the UK has imported. This was an increase from . percent in March . However, with the pandemic and Brexit, economists say its hard to tell if this will be a trend. Gayle Allard, a professor of economics at IE University in Spain, said Its hard to make definite conclusions from a year during which the UK has experienced not only Brexit, but also the worst experience with the pandemic in Europe in terms of deaths per capita. So we would need to watch the trends for another year at least to find normal patterns. She added Initially, it looks like Brexit and the supply constraints coming from the pandemic have been very favorable for Chinese exports to the UK. Remember that after Brexit, EU products lost some of their cost advantage in the UK. Chris Rowley, a business professor from Kellogg College at the University of Oxford, said UKChina trade relations have been tense in the light of strained diplomatic relations, but trade will continue. Nevertheless, there are trade opportunities, moving beyond more traditional ones, such as foods and drinks, to sectors ranging from pharmaceuticals and aerospace to green energy. Nevertheless, the ghost in the machine is the UKs globally highly competitive financial services and especially fintech, said Rowley, who is also a professor at the Graduate School of Education of Tohoku University in Japan. Experts say that Brexit should create more opportunities for UKoriented Chinese exporters. The pound has fallen since the Brexit vote, making EU goods more expensive, and some EU inputs for products manufactured in the UK will also be too expensive. Supply chains will be broken for many products and will need to be remade, Allard said. Rowley added Brexits opportunitiesflexibilities, nimbleness and speedcould be seized. In a separate report, Office for National Statistics data showed that the UK has imported more goods from China than from any other country since the second quarter of . The ONS said that out of the UKs top five import partners, China is the only one from which imports grew between the first quarter of  and the first quarter of . Imports of goods from China accounted for . percent of UK goods imports in the first quarter of  having increased by . percent compared with the first quarter of , exhibiting a larger increase than exports, the report said. Goods imports from China had continued to show an upward trend throughout . The increase in imports from China in  was boosted by textile fabrics for face masks and personal protective equipment. The ONS added that increasing demand for commodities produced by China such as electronic goods likely explains the increasing imports seen in . Rowley added The COVID pandemic has had an impact here as China has come back earlier and stronger economically than other countries. So, there may be some catchup from others postpandemic. Nevertheless, the faster growing economies and markets remain in Asia. After leaving the EU, the UK is seeking new trading opportunities. In February, the UK government applied to join the Comprehensive and Progressive Agreement for TransPacific Partnership, a trade agreement between  Pacific Rim nations, including Australia, Brunei, Canada, Chile, Japan, Malaysia, Mexico, New Zealand, Peru, Singapore and Vietnam. Members of the free trade treaty generate more than  percent of the worlds income,  percent of global trade and involve about  million people.