Govt vows more financial help to pandemichit enterprises
2021/6/2 9:28
Children take an online Englishlanguage class in Beijing.  Daily The State Administration for Market Regulation slapped fines amounting to . million yuan . million on  tutoring firms on Tuesday for false advertising and pricing frauds, as the government continued its efforts to crack down on irregularities in the private education sector. The  companies, mostly listed in the United States and Hong Kong, include Tencentbacked Yuanfudao, Alibababacked Zuoyebang, New Oriental Education, Xueersi of the TAL Education Group, OneSmart Education Group, Beststudy Education Group and Scholar Education. Others on the list are Zhangmen, Wall Street English, Dada English, Weixue, Mingshi, Bond Education, Bluesky Education and Nice Education. Yuan Xilu, director of the bureau of price supervision and antiunfair competition at the market regulator, said the administration had set up special teams to inspect activities at Zuoyebang and Yuanfudao in early May, and subsequently conducted checks on  key offcampus training firms. The inspection found that  institutions had indulged in false advertising, while  resorted to pricing frauds. The regulator found that academic qualifications of some tutors at the private educational firms were fabricated or exaggerated. Similarly, some of the courses offered by the companies were sold at just  yuan, discounts that masked the actual price, said the regulator. Yuan said it is necessary to build a longterm mechanism to further enhance supervision through the adoption of smart technologies and big data. Private tutoring firms should not become opportunities for pursuing profits nor tools for raising money. They should remain committed to the healthy development and benefits of common good, said Yuan. Ji Xiaoling, deputy director of the bureau of price supervision and antiunfair competition, said the penalty and exposure of such firms marks the beginning of efforts to regulate and rectify the private education sector. Wall Street English, one of the English training institutes fined, said on its official Weibo account, that it will accept the penalty and correct its irregular pricing, false promotion and advertising. The company will continue to improve its internal management and carry out operations according to the law, it said. The scale of the fine is unprecedented, said Lyu Senlin, founder of Guiding Light Think Tank, an education industry expert. The penalized enterprises are all leaders in the industry. As the big ones get warned, the small players will be alerted. There are about . million private tutoring firms in the country with a market value of about  billion yuan. A majority of them are small and mediumsized, he said. The crackdown on false practices of some educational institutions will help protect consumers and ease private tutoring burden for families with children. Lyus comments that the crackdown on such irregularities will continue come a day after the central government indicated that it will allow couples to have a third child.