Chinas SMEs see stable recovery
2021/6/2 9:19
People holding signs take part in a Stop Asian Hate rally in San Jose, California, the United States, April , .  Asian Americans who have experienced racism are more stressed by antiAsian hate than the pandemic itself and have suffered heightened signs of depression, anxiety, stress, and physical symptoms, a new report said. The Stop AAPI Hate Mental Health Report features findings from three research projects that investigated the effects of antiAsian racism on the mental health of Asian Americans during the COVID pandemic. The reports are the Stop AAPI Hate FollowUp Survey, the National AntiAsian American Racism Study, and the COVID Adult Resilience Experiences Study. The Stop AAPI Hate survey found that discrimination was Asian Americans greatest source of stress, much higher than concerns over the pandemic. The survey also showed . percent of respondents view the US as more dangerous for them. Its a really scary statistic, said Russel Jeung, cofounder of the Stop AAPI Hate reporting center. They, overwhelmingly, were more concerned about racism than they were concerned about the pandemic thats killed almost , people in the US. They the respondents say you can protect yourself from the COVID by covering your face with a mask, but you cant protect yourself from some random stranger who may attack you or attack your elderly grandmother, he said. The survey was conducted from January to March with  individuals who reported racist incidents to the platform last year. The Asian American Psychological Association, in collaboration with the Stop AAPI Hate group, conducted a parallel national needs assessment study of , Asian Americans as the comparison group from January to April. The national needs assessment survey found . percent of participants cited antiAsian racism as their greatest source of stress, and . percent also viewed the US as more dangerous for Asian Americans. Both numbers were much lower than what the Stop AAPI Hate survey found. The report found though that one in five Asian Americans who have experienced racism display racial trauma, the psychological and emotional harm caused by racism. Experience of racism during COVID is found to be more strongly associated with posttraumatic stress disorder, or PTSD, symptoms, said the COVID Adult Resilience Experiences Study, which recruited , adults in the US aged between  and  from April to June last year. PTSD on the rise One in three Asian and Asian American young adults reported clinically elevated symptoms of depression and general anxiety, and one in four reported a PTSD diagnosis, said the studys data drawn from  participants who selfidentified as Asian or Asian American. The study found the rates are higher than preCOVID mental health estimates. Before the pandemic, Asian Americans, particularly immigrants and those with lower English proficiency, often had trouble accessing mental healthcare due to structural and linguistic barriers. The persistent damaging stereotypes of Asian Americanssuch as the model minority stereotypecontribute to misconceptions about Asian Americans mental health status and needs, the Stop AAPI Hate Mental Health Report said.