Vaccines working well in Guangdong, expert says
2021/6/1 10:23
People march to protest against antiAsian hate crimes on Brooklyn Bridge in New York, the United States, April , .  Asian Americans who have experienced racism are more stressed by antiAsian hate than the pandemic itself and have heightened symptoms of depression, anxiety, stress and physical symptoms, according to a new report. The Stop AAPI Hate Mental Health Report features findings from three research projects that investigated the effects of antiAsian racism on mental health among Asian Americans during the COVID pandemic The reports are the Stop AAPI Hate FollowUp Survey, the National AntiAsian American Racism Study and the COVID Adult Resilience Experiences Study. The Stop AAPI Hate survey was conducted from January to March this year with  individuals who reported racist incidents to the platform last year. It found that . percent of the respondents said antiAsian discrimination was their greatest source of stress, much higher than other pandemic concerns. The survey also shows that . percent of them report viewing the US as more dangerous for Asian Americans. The Asian American Psychological Association, in collaboration with the Stop AAPI Hate, conducted a parallel national needs assessment study of , Asian Americans as the comparison group from January to April. The national needs assessment survey found . percent of the participants cited antiAsian racism as their greatest source of stress, and . percent of them viewed the US as more dangerous for Asian Americans, both numbers much lower that what the Stop AAPI Hate survey found. Its a really scary statistic, Russel Jeung, cofounder of Stop AAPI Hate told China Daily. They, overwhelmingly, were more concerned about racism than they were concerned about the pandemic thats killed , people in the US, he said. They the respondents say you can protect yourself from the COVID by covering your face with a mask, but you cant protect yourself from some random stranger who may attack you or attack your elderly grandmother, said Jeung. The report also found that one in five Asian Americans who have experienced racism display racial trauma, the psychological and emotional harm caused by racism. Experience of racism during COVID is found to be more strongly associated with posttraumatic stress disorder PTSD symptoms, according to COVID Adult Resilience Experiences Study, which recruited , adults in the US aged between  years and  years from April to June last year. During the pandemic, one in three Asian and Asian American young adults reported clinically elevated symptoms of depression and general anxiety, and one in four reported a PTSD diagnosis, according to the studys data drawn from  participants who selfidentified as Asian or Asian American. The study found the rates are higher than preCOVID mental health estimates. Prior to the pandemic, Asian Americans, particularly immigrants and those with lower English proficiency, had often had trouble accessing mental health care due to structural, cultural, and linguistic barriers. The persistent damaging racial stereotypes of Asian Americans  such as the model minority stereotype  contribute to misconceptions about Asian Americans mental health status and mental health needs, said the Stop AAPI Hate Mental Health Report. Its collective trauma. We experienced that as a group, not just as an individual. And then when we see it on the news again and again, we are reminded of that trauma, said Jeung. He also said the racism may leave a lasting impact on young Asian Americans. Young people are having the same symptoms as the adults. Theyre showing signs of trauma, being hyper vigilant and avoidant, Jeung said. Right now, people are stigmatizing Chinese and Asians. They think of us as disease carriers. So another consequence is they young Asian Americans will selfstigmatize, theyll shun their Asian parts too, just like the way others shun them for being Asian.