Reports Asian Americans more stressed by racism than pandemic
2021/6/1 5:28
LOS ANGELES  Californians headed to campgrounds, beaches and restaurants over the long holiday weekend as the state prepared to shed some of its coronavirus rules. Southern California beaches were busy with families barbecuing and children playing in the sand and surf. Business owners said they were scrambling to hire workers to keep up with the stream of customers eager to get out since virus cases have fallen and vaccinations have risen. It feels very, very close to normal, Bob Alfera, a resident of seaside Santa Monica, told KCBSTV. The surge in travel and recreation comes as California prepares to relax social distancing and masking rules in two weeks as long as coronavirus cases remain low. California was the first U.S. state to impose a statewide shutdown when the virus emerged in March  and the nations epicenter for the disease in early . But the state has reported a significant turnaround. In recent weeks, newly reported infections in California have fallen below , on some days and the states positivity rate has been . The state is now expected to end its tier system for business operations on June . Already, about  of Californias population is in the lower two of the states four tiers guiding business activities. Largescale indoor events will have vaccination or negative test requirements until at least October. The change in pandemicrelated rules comes as Californians gear up for summertime fun. At Los Angeles International Airport, travel reached a  record on Friday with more than , passengers passing through Transportation Security Administration checkpoints, airport officials said. Daily passenger traffic is still about half of what it was two years ago but has been steadily increasing, the Los Angeles Times reported. Its been a long year, and to see people coming back to the airport is a great change of pace, said Heath Montgomery, an airport spokesperson. Just in time for Memorial Day, a local veterans group that met weekly until the pandemic halted inperson gatherings finally got a longawaited reunion. Members got together in West Hills for coffee and donuts and to catch up on the year gone by, Ed Reynolds, a veteran with Wings over Wendys, told KTLA television. Its good to see these faces again, he said, his voice cracking. Its sort of emotional. Agencies via Xinhua