Handsome heroes light some admirers inner fires
2021/5/28 18:19
CHENGDU  Archaeologists have unearthed more than , significant relics at the six new sacrificial pits of the legendary Sanxingdui Ruins site in southwest China. The excavation of the No  to No  sacrificial pits, which began in the second half of last year, is progressing smoothly, said Tang Fei, chief of the Sichuan Provincial Cultural Relics and Archaeology Research Institute. Relics in the No  pit are mainly bronze wares and ivories, both of which have exceeded  pieces. Among the bronze wares, such as trees and large masks, a bronze figure with a square altarshaped bronze ware held up in his hands has never been seen before. Jade and stone tools and gold and seashells were also found in the pit. The No  pit has a large number of relics. So far, archaeologists have unearthed  pieces, including ivories, gold, jade, stone, bronze, potteries, bones, textiles, and lacquer wares. From the pit, residues of silk were unearthed for the first time at Sanxingdui. Archaeologists also found plants, such as bamboos. The No  pit saw tiny artifacts such as various fragments and beads. There are many round perforated gold pieces buried in this pit, which are probably clothes decorations. So far,  pieces of relics have been unearthed, including gold masks and birdshaped gold ornaments. A wellpreserved wooden box with cinnabar coated on the inside was found in the No  pit, which was the first of its kind at Sanxingdui. From the No  pit, which has just been excavated to the relic layer, ten ivories have been exposed. The No. pit mainly saw bronze wares, jade, gold foils, and stone tools. Larger bronze wares were mostly broken consciously, and the fragments were mainly from bronze trees. There were also many gold foils scattered in the ashes, some of which were identified as golden leaves. Pieces of textiles that were not completely burned were also found on some bronze fragments. The Sanxingdui Ruins are dubbed one of the greatest archaeological finds of mankind in the th century. The site was accidentally discovered by a farmer when he was digging a ditch in the s.