National Skin Care Day focuses on postpandemic skin care
2021/5/25 14:22
He Mali, brand director of LOreal Photo provided to China Daily To help clinicians better understand peoples current needs for skin care and provide them with more accurate solutions and assistance, the th  National Skin Care Day, themed on scientific skin care in the postpandemic era, was organized by the Dermatologists Branch of the China Medical Doctor Association CDA and held on May  in nine cities across China. LOreal Chinas Active Health Cosmetics Division and its skincare brand La RochePosay supported the event and the BDC BusinesstoDoctortoConsumer Scientific Skin Care Program, as well as the National Skin Care Program. In his opening speech, Professor Wang Gang, president of the Dermatologists Branch of the CDA, said, the event has been going on for  years. From the starting point of popularizing skin care knowledge and serving the public, we have done a lot of work and achieved very good results. With the support of the community and the joint efforts of everyone, the concept of health starts from the skin has taken root in peoples hearts. The theme of this years event is very important for both medical practitioners and the crowd during this current period. The research was conducted by an online questionnaire with more than , participants involved, collecting consumers feedback on skin problems caused by lifestyle changes such as the longterm wearing of masks. Professor Yang Bin, director of the Dermatology Hospital of Southern Medical University, gave detailed advice on how to care for skin in the postpandemic period, including how to wear masks, cleanse skin and choose moisturizing products. In addition, a series of online and offline clinics have been launched in  cities across China since May , with a total of around , healthcare professionals participating to answer pandemicrelated and daily skincare questions for the public and deliver scientific and reasonable skincare concepts and safe and effective solutions to skin problems. About , patients were covered in the offline clinic and , patients in the online clinic. The event also saw the official launch of a medical research and development center, jointly established by La RochePosay and the Dermatology Hospital of Southern Medical University. On top of our products, we are also going a step further by working on the demand side to raise consumers own awareness of skin health management and help them choose the right solution with our services and experiences, thus realizing LOral Chinas ambitious vision of Better Consumption, said He Mali, the brand director.