Flagship store for CE Stylenanda opens in Shanghai
2021/5/25 13:34
People participate in a protest to demand an end to antiAsian violence in New York City on April , .  The NYPD Hate Crimes Task Force is investigating the pushing of an Asian man onto subway tracks Monday in Queens. The victim, , was at the st StreetQueensbridge F train station around  am when another man pushed him, the New York Post reported. The train went into emergency mode and managed to avoid hitting the man. Police said a Good Samaritan came to the mans rescue and pulled him off the tracks, CBS News reported. He was taken to Mount Sinai Medical Center with a cut on his forehead. The suspect said something under his breath before he pushed the victim, the New York Daily News reported, but the victim didnt understand what was uttered. The suspect, who fled to the street, is described as a black male between  and  years old, about  feet , last seen wearing a mask over his face, and black clothing. The NYPD has released a surveillance image of the suspect at a subway turnstile. According to the most recent NYPD statistics, through May  this year there have been  antiAsian hate crimes in the city, a  percent increase over the same period last year. Mainly in response to the rise in antiAsian incidents, the NYPD established a Hate Crime Review Panel in April. Try to stay safe, be alert, never get close to the edge of the platform, be on guard. Unfortunately, thats the times we live in, an unidentified rider told CBS. There is no higher priority for the MTA than the safety and security of our customers, MTA spokesperson Michael Cortez said in a statement after Mondays incident. We continue to call on the de Blasio administration to partner with us and do more to address these incidents in the subway and the ongoing mental health crisis in the city. Mayor Bill De Blasio and MTA officials have frequently exchanged barbs over subway crime. MTA officials also have announced plans to hire private security officers. Facing persistent pressure about public safety as the city approaches a full reopening, the mayor last week announced  more officers would be deployed to the subway system, which he said would make it the largest NYPD transit force in over  years, giving the underground network , officers. At his news conference Monday, de Blasio said the city is going to keep doing whatever it takes, including the mental health services in the subways, the homeless outreach in the subway. All of this adds up and well keep adding up. But we also know, and the public safety experts say the recovery itself is going to have a huge impact on safety. De Blasio has frequently cited lower subway ridership as a reason for the increase in crime, relying on larger numbers as a natural deterrent. He said Monday that increased ridership would have a positive impact on safety. Those riders are starting to return. The MTA in a statement said that on Friday more than . million riders were on city trains, a record high since the COVID pandemic took hold in March . But New York also is experiencing violence aboveground. Twentyseven people were shot over the weekend, including an yearold man who died after being shot, according to the NYPD. The city also has seen a surge in antiSemitic violence recently, as clashes have unfolded during the recent deadly fighting between Palestinians and Israelis in the Middle East, as Hamas and Israeli forces unleashed rockets at each other. The two sides reached a ceasefire last week. Were going to protect the Jewish community and make sure people feel that that protection is there for them.  And Ive been really clear about the fact that antiSemitism has been growing in recent years around the world. We have to stop it. And one place it needs to be stopped once and for all, its right here in New York City, and we will do that. We will stomp it out. In April , overall crime in New York City rose . percent compared with the same month in , including a  percent increase in grand larceny and a . percent increase in felony assault, according to the NYPD. Robbery increased . percent, and shooting incidents increased  percent. Burglary was the only index crime to decline, down  percent compared with the previous year. The NYPD is relentless in its mission to maintain public safety for all New Yorkers, Police Commissioner Dermot Shea said in the recent crime stats report. The selfless work our officers carry out  day after day, night after night  is one important part of the entire criminal justice systems process, a process where all pieces must work together to be wholly effective.