LIBERATED with the help of LIPSTICK AND MASCARA
2021/5/25 10:43
FILE PHOTO Former special advisor to British Prime Minister Boris Johnson, Dominic Cummings, speaks to members of the media outside of his house, in London, Britain, May , .  Britains Prime Minister Boris Johnson will face intense scrutiny over his handling of the early stages of the COVID outbreak when his former chief adviser Dominic Cummings gives evidence to a parliamentary select committee on Wednesday. Cummings, who was Johnsons righthand man for more than a year before he left Downing Street in November after falling out with him, has described the initial plan for the crisis as disastrously misconceived and is expected to make the allegation that thousands of deaths could have been avoided, according to the Financial Times. Cummings reputation was battered when he defied rules and traveled across the country during the first lockdown last year. His relationship with the PM rapidly deteriorated after Cummings reportedly briefed against him. In a flurry of social media posts in the last week, Cummings has given some indication of what he intends to reveal in the hearing. The Times newspapers Red Box column summarized the tweets as saying that the governments initial goal at the outset of the pandemic was to achieve herd immunity by last September. The Times reported that Cummings said ministers were forced into a bodged plan B because they did not understand their original proposals would mean s of ,s choking to death. In one post, Cummings wrote Many thousands will have serious health problems for years because of our failure to act fasterharder in FebMarch  Sep. In another post he described the governments policy on keeping borders open as a joke. The Times noted he also targeted Jenny Harries, who until March was Englands deputy chief medical officer, for claiming masks were a bad idea. The FT said Cummings is prepared to share confidential documents using parliamentary privilege. The Guardian said Cummings seems intent on doing maximum damage to his former boss, and quoted a senior Conservative member of Parliament as saying He doesnt like the way he left he thinks he should still be there. I think he wants to get Boris out. A friend of Cummings told the FT the former adviser would not hold back from criticism of the PM, saying hes got absolutely nothing to lose. Hes not coming back into government, Boris will never forgive him so its his moment in the spotlight to say and do what he wants. That is dangerous for the prime minister. The delay to lockdown the nation in March  and October will also be examined, the paper said. The prime minister will face his weekly questions from the opposition leader Keir Starmer immediately after the hearing, in the House of Commons. One person involved in the inquiry told the FT the hearing would focus solely on the pandemic. A senior Conservative MP told the newspaper There is no dispute that lessons need to be learned from handling at the start. I think we feel they should be explored methodically and on evidence not as a revenge exercise by a disgruntled former aide.