Cosmetics and personal care products that can beautify world
2021/5/24 9:05
A customer tries out products of the Chinese makeup brand Perfect Diary at a store in Shanghai on Nov . The Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership agreement is expected to create new business opportunities in exporting Chinese cosmetics. CHINA DAILY Chinese producers of makeup eye overseas markets after winning hearts on home turf Chinas cosmetics industry is on a fast trajectory of growth, fueled by Chinese female consumers increasing pursuit of beauty and the trend of consumption upgrade. More glad tidings come from the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership agreement, which is expected to create new business opportunities for the export of Chinese cosmetics. Chinas imports of cosmetics and personal care products are believed to have peaked last year at . billion, up . percent yearonyear, making the country the secondlargest cosmetics consumption market globally, according to the General Administration of Customs. This happened despite the cloud cast by the COVID pandemic. In comparison, the export value of Chinas cosmetics to overseas markets came in at . billion last year, which was about onefifth of the import value. But now, the export business is set to rise. The RCEP agreement was signed in November . The signatory bloc covers roughly  percent of the worlds gross domestic product, trade and population. When it takes effect, the deal will progressively eliminate tariffs on  percent of goods and introduce common rules on investment and intellectual property to promote free trade. By , the RCEP is expected to drive a net increase of  billion in exports of its member countries, and China is foreseen to increase exports by  billion, which is about  percent of its current export trade value, according to the projections of the Peterson Institute for International Economics, a US think tank. China will gradually lower the tariffs for various Japanese products, including Japanese cosmetics, after Japan became the latest member in late April to approve the RCEP, the worlds largest freetrade deal, which now covers  AsiaPacific countries. The RCEP will drive huge market growth potential, and it will inject longterm impetus into the development of different industries, including the cosmetics industry in China, Fu Bo, an official at the Ministry of Commerce, said at the China International Cooperation Summit on Cosmetics in April in Beijing. Chinas domestic cosmetics retailers should raise their RD capabilities and brand impact, and utilize the opportunities brought by the RCEP to purchase raw materials from Japan and South Korea at lower costs and further raise product quality, Fu said. The conference discussed the latest trends in the cosmetics industry. It was organized by the China Chamber of Commerce for Import and Export of Medicines and Health Products and the China Health Care Association. Fu said Chinese makeup retailers should actively expand the export markets in Southeast Asian countries. Currently, Indonesia and Singapore stand among the top five export destinations in terms of value of Chinas cosmetics exports. A number of domestic brands have considered Southeast Asian countries their important potential markets. Southeast Asian countries are lowering tariffs on Chinas cosmetics exports and opening up the investments in cosmetics RD and production. Chinese enterprises could consider expanding their investments and production in the region accordingly, Fu said. Given the ongoing pandemic, promoting products through livestreaming sessions and ecommerce shopping has created enormous growth potential for crossborder retailing of cosmetics, and the RCEP will help with fast and convenient Customs clearance, Fu said. Consumers from the Association of Southeast Asian Nations have shown an increasing demand for highquality cosmetics and personal care products. Indonesia and Vietnam are now among the fastestgrowing markets, industry experts said. Particularly, ASEAN consumers have a significant demand for Islamic cosmetics, and more people have fostered a habit of online shopping. Chinese enterprises can focus on developing natural, herbal and organic products to meet local demand, said Hamidah Minhaj, director of global regulatory affairs at ColgatePalmolive AsiaPacific. Executives of Nox Bellcow, a Chinese wet wipes and facial mask manufacturer based in Zhongshan, Guangdong province, said the company has been exporting facial masks to European countries. Its products were sold at multiple German supermarkets before the pandemic. It continues to export some of its products in spite of the difficult situation created by the pandemic. Founded in , Nox Bellcow has been focusing on using green raw materials and developing innovative products. Its facility boasts the worlds largest capacity to make facial masks. For instance, we use colorful cloth made by super fiber for facial masks. We can also add some natural elements such as mint, aloe, isatis root, marigold and centella into the making of cloth, said Qiu Xiaofeng, vicepresident of Nox. Qiu has guided the RD of several facial mask products such as clay facial masks, and has obtained nine patents, with another  waiting for approvals. Currently, the company is using multiple compositions of Chinese herbal medicines and other plant extracts in making facial masks, and the manufacturer said it hopes to export more products with Chinese features to countries and regions globally, especially to the ASEAN countries by leveraging the opportunities brought by the RCEP.