Media, think tanks set to boost RCEP exchanges
2021/5/22 4:40
FILE PHOTO A security guard stands outside the Ralph Lauren store during the outbreak of the coronavirus disease COVID, in Beverly Hills, California, US, July , .  SACRAMENTO, Calif.  California no longer will require social distancing and will allow full capacity for businesses when the state reopens on June , the states top health official said Friday. State health director Dr. Mark Ghaly said that dramatically lower virus cases and increasing vaccinations mean its safe for the state to remove nearly all restrictions next month. Something very important happens on June  In California, Ghaly said. We are now at a point, given our metrics that weve been watching, that California is at a place where we can begin to talk about moving beyond the blueprint, the states colorcoded, fourtier system that that has restricted activities based on each countys virus prevalence. Limits on how many people can be inside businesses at any one time, which have been a hallmark of the safety plan, will disappear, he said. Physical distancing, there will no longer be restrictions for attendees, customers and guests in business sectors. That wont mean an abrupt end to wearing masks, he said, but it will mean the state will adjust its guidelines to correspond to national guidelines. Officials already announced this week that they would wait until midJune to follow the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention new mask guidelines that say its safe for fully vaccinated people to skip face coverings and social distancing in virtually all situations. The federal guidelines state that everyone should still wear masks in crowded indoor locations such as airplanes, buses, hospitals and prisons. Californias workforce regulators are separately developing safety rules that will continue to apply to employers, Ghaly said. We have weathered the storm and I am hopeful that this finally signals our return to normalcy, said Los Angeles County Supervisor Kathryn Barger. The more than three weeks of lead time before the changes go into effect will provide ample time for our businesses, organizations and residents to prepare for these changes, Barger said. The state will still recommend that organizers of outdoor events with more than , people require that attendees provide verification that they have been vaccinated or have tested negative for the coronavirus. Those who cant or dont provide the verification should be encouraged to wear masks, Ghaly said. The state will require vaccine verification or negative test results for indoor events with more than , attendees, but Ghaly said that can be by selfattestation with details to come from health officials on how that process will work. State officials do not anticipate that they will create or require a vaccination passport or other formal verification, he said. They will advise businesses and others that require verification to do so in a way that doesnt discriminate. He said California also plans to follow federal CDC guidelines on traveling domestically and overseas. That means no more discouraging travel unless there are certain countries where visiting is not advised, and no more voluntary quarantines when people return to California. California was the first state to issue a statewide shutdown as the virus emerged in March  and at the start of  it was the nations epicenter for the disease. Nearly , people have died from the virus in California, the most in any state in the nation. Gov. Gavin Newsom, a Democrat, and state health officials have said for weeks they expected to generally lift most business and social restrictions by June . Ghaly said the state remains on track to do so just months after the worse surge abated. The state of  million people has administered nearly . million vaccine doses, and more than threequarters of residents over age  have received at least one dose, he said. Vaccines are widely available and were proud of where we are, Ghaly said. On some days, newly reported infection cases have fallen below , and there currently are just over , people in hospitals with the virus. We havent enjoyed that level since the very early months and weeks of the pandemic, Ghaly said. The states plan does carry some risks, he said. Those who have decided not to be vaccinated may remain vulnerable to transmission and to some of the concerning outcomes. And were going to be watching that very closely, he said. But I think we are in a place statewide where we have a significant number of people vaccinated and protected.