Hong Kong law improving oathtaking arrangement for public officers to take effect on May
2021/5/21 9:08
People wearing face masks are seen on the street in Hong Kong, Feb , .  HONG KONG  A law that requires Hong Kongs public officers to take an oath to uphold the Basic Law and bear allegiance to the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region will be published and take effect on Friday. HKSAR Chief Executive Carrie Lam on Thursday signed the Public Offices Candidacy and Taking Up OfficesMiscellaneous Amendments Ordinance . The related bill was introduced into the Legislative Council for the first and second reading on March  and was passed by lawmakers on May . The ordinance explains the meaning of upholding the Basic Law and bearing allegiance to the HKSAR, introduces the oathtaking requirement for members of the District Councils and specifies oathtaking requirements. It also standardizes the arrangement of oath administrators, enhances the mechanism to deal with breach of oaths, and introduces restrictions on participation in public elections for related situations. Lam said upholding the Basic Law and bearing allegiance to the HKSAR is the legal requirement and the precondition for public officers and is also the fundamental obligation and responsibility of people standing for election or taking up public office. It the ordinance stipulates very clearly for the first time the legal requirements for oathtaking of public officers, marking an important step for safeguarding the patriots administering Hong Kong principle, she said. The oathtaking requirements are in line with Article  of the Basic Law, the interpretation of the article by the Standing Committee of the National Peoples Congress in , and the national security law in the HKSAR. To implement one country, two systems fully and accurately, we must act in accordance with the Constitution and the Basic Law, Lam said, stressing that the ordinance will be conducive to the implementation of one country, two systems.