Solar energy warms bilateral relations
2021/5/21 0:00
Leading Chinese conglomerate Zonergy said it will use Pakistan as an overseas base to develop as an integrated service provider of green energy in countries and regions involved in the Belt and Road Initiative. In Pakistan, it has supplied power through an outstanding photovoltaic project, as well as created jobs and brought convenience to peoples lives over the past five years. We plan to extend our markets from Pakistan to countries and regions in Southeast Asia, Europe and Africa step by step, said Guo Jun, president of Zonergy. The Stateowned hightech company has developed global advantages in PV power plants, new energy smart microgrid, energy storage system, green cloud computing and biomass energy. All our efforts will stick to the green development philosophy, follow national strategies and serve people of the international community, Guo told China Daily. Easing power shortage The companys connection with Pakistan started with a . billion project. It is the worlds largest centralized utilityscale PV power plant with a combined installed capacity of  megawatts, which is located in Bahawalpur, eastern Pakistans Punjab province. As a priority energy project of the ChinaPakistan Economic Corridor to relieve the electricity shortage in Pakistan, the PV station began construction in the second half of . Its first phase, three units of generators with an installed capacity of  MW each, came into commercial operation in June . It is the first power project of the corridor that connects to the national power grid of Pakistan, according to the company. As of the end of March this year, the cumulative generation capacity of the PV station reached . billion kilowatthours. This is enough to satisfy the electricity demands of more than , local households, the company figures show. The introduction of a PV station is a boon to a country like Pakistan that lacks natural resources such as coal, oil and natural gas. It needs to import a large number of raw materials for thermal power stations but has abundant solar resources, Guo noted. With an electricity shortage of , MW back then, the gap severely hampered the economic and social development of Pakistan. Peoples lives and professions were negatively affected, according to a report by Chineselanguage newspaper China Energy News. During the summers, electricity demand would outstrip supply because everyone would have their airconditioning switched on. As a result, major cities in Pakistanincluding the capital Islamabad and Lahorewere forced to cut electricity for five hours or more a day on average, which worsened in some remote areas. However, the country has one of the highest amounts of solar radiation in the world. The annual duration of sunshine can reach , hours.While keeping our PV station running stably and efficiently, we plan to accelerate the construction of the rest of the project with a combined installed capacity of  MW, Guo said. The construction of the projects first phase has demonstrated the professionalism and implementation ability of the company, he added. Located in the Cholistan desert, the project encountered all kinds of difficultiesa lack of water and power supplies, extreme weather with the highest temperature reaching more than  C and historically heavy rainfallGuo recalled. But the enormous difficulties did not delay the delivery of the project. The company innovatively used the largest strategic transport aircraft, a Condor An, to transport the main transformer of the PV station to meet the schedule, according to Guo. Our project benefited a lot from the policy incentives of both the Chinese and Pakistani governments that assist the development of new energy. The Pakistani government has mapped out a goal to raise the use of clean energy to  percent by , he noted. As an important project of the CPEC, a flagship program under the BRI to improve the infrastructure along the corridor, the new construction is expected to contribute to the ChinaPakistan allweather strategic partnership of cooperation, Guo said. Besides the PV station project, Zonergy has developed a household and offgrid energy storage system especially for the Pakistani market. So far, Zonergy has set up  flagship stores across Pakistan with onestop services from equipment sales, project planning and execution to operation and maintenance services. As Pakistans No  PV brand with quality equipment and implementation ability, it has secured  percent of the Pakistani distributed PV market. This has helped it become the largest service provider for smart microgrids based on solar energy storage in the country, company figures reveal. Serving the community The massive PV power station in Pakistan has not only increased the electricity supply to the local market, but created roughly , jobs for locals since construction started, according to Zonergy. Meanwhile, it has trained more than  operation and maintenance engineers to work in PV power stations. Of them,  with advanced technical capabilities have earned qualifications from the Pakistan Engineering Council. Jahanzaib Saleem, a manager at the PV station, said peoples quality of life has been greatly improved with the clean energy. Power cuts have been reduced to one to two hours a day in the summer now, he said. I feel proud to work for Zonergy, so do my family and friends, said Saleem. I get a desirable salary here and also the respect and trust from my colleagues and leaders. In , the company completed a wind and solar hybrid storage and power supply project, sponsored by the Asian Development Bank, in Punjab and transferred it to the local government. Also, the company undertook a PV project in Sindh province, southeastern Pakistan, with loans from the World Bank. It is on the way to delivery, according to the company. In , Zonergys team in Pakistan stuck to their posts to ensure the normal service of the PV station amid the COVID pandemic. When there was extreme need of pandemic prevention materials locally, my team and I coordinated and integrated all our resources and searched for channels to fight against the pandemic with the local community, said Guo. Eventually, Zonergy donated  million rupees , in cash and materials worth  million rupees, which included , protective masks,  N respirators and  sets of medical protective clothing, to the Prime Ministers COVID Pandemic Relief Fund of Pakistan. Our work in Pakistan has witnessed and carried on the deep friendship between the two countries, Guo said. Zonergy has attached emphasis on building a sound relationship with local governments and residents since it took root in Pakistan, he noted. It has provided free, clean drinking water to residents in Bahawalpur, a city in Punjab province, by investing in and building drinking water purification stations, solving a longterm problem in the dry region. It also donated PV power storage and supply systems to the Bahawal Victoria Hospital in Bahawalpur, so that it can have a nonstop power supply. With the donation, some equipment will no longer be affected by frequent power cut and can therefore be used safely. All the measures won applause from local governments and residents, said Guo.At a time when China and Pakistan celebrate the th anniversary of their diplomatic relationship, Zonergy will keep to the strategy of going all out to make our projects better in Pakistan and along the BRI, Guo said. chenhongchinadaily.com.cn Zonergys centralized utilityscale PV power plant has a combined installed capacity of  megawatts, which is located in Bahawalpur, eastern Pakistans Punjab province. CHINA DAILY