ChinaEurope trains carry cargo and hope
2021/5/20 10:04
Jordanian entrepreneur Mohammad Falah Nasser discusses business plans with employees in Yiwu, Zhejiang province. PHOTO PROVIDED TO CHINA DAILY Jordanian businessman witnesses worlds supermarket picking up pace In , shortly after graduation, a young businessman from Jordan arrived in Yiwu, the city in Zhejiang province referred to as the worlds supermarket. He had , yuan about , at the time in his pocket and plans to start his own business. Stunned by the vast market and its dazzling array of products, he immediately recognized the substantial business opportunity Yiwu presented, found a humble office and got to work. Twenty years later, Mohammad Falah Nasser is chairman of Yiwubased Zhejiang Infinity Trade, a manufacturing company that mainly trades in hardware, power tools and energysaving lamps. Last year, cumulative exports to  countries, including Jordan, Algeria, Tanzania and Morocco, stood in excess of  million. Despite the impact of COVID, Zhejiang Infinity Trade has continued to grow. In part, this has been made possible by the proactive role Yiwu authorities have played. After shipping  containers to Algeria last year, the company discovered that the employee normally responsible for arranging the bills of lading was under quarantine. Until another worker could be arranged, the shipment could not be collected and the company risked incurring demurrage fees of , a day. With the employee unable to leave home to complete the necessary bank procedures, Nasser turned to the Yiwu City Bureau of Commerce for help. The bureau promptly worked out a plan to issue a special pass that would allow the employee to arrange the bills, while still obeying pandemic control requirements. The problem was resolved. As the situation improved and business and production in Yiwu bounced back quickly, local government officials visited Nasser to ask about the difficulties he had experienced and advised him on preparations necessary to resume production. With their support, his factory was able to tackle a number of problems, including a shortage of supplies, and quickly resumed production while still meeting pandemic prevention requirements. Foreign trade rebounded thanks to incentive policies related to logistics and trade, and last year, Zhejiang Infinity Trades export volume grew by  percent, bucking the global trend. For Nasser, Yiwu is a magical place where he went from poor boy to big boss. I have been to more than  countries around the world, including the United States and many European countries, and I think Yiwu is the ideal place to do business, he said. Zhejiang continues its process of opening up to the world, a key component of the provinces DoubleEight Strategy. The strategy identifies eight strengths the province possesses in terms of economic structure, geological position, industries, the coordinated development of urban and rural areas, ecology, mountain and ocean resources, the environment and culture, as well as eight measures to maximize the advantages of these strengths. As the worlds largest small commodities market, Yiwu is the epitome of Zhejiangs openingup and development process. According to statistics from Yiwu Customs, despite the turbulence of last year, the citys imports and exports reached . billion yuan . billion, some . percent of the provincial total and up . percent from the previous year. In part, this is thanks to Yiwus encouraging business environment. In recent years, authorities have focused on developing onestop administrative services to improve local businesses. When Nasser started his company in , it took more than two weeks to get the necessary licenses, but when he applied for a wholly foreignowned enterprise license in , procedures took less than two days. Our company has grown from a factory of  workers to an enterprise of more than , employees, and our agents abroad have seen the number of employees increase from six to more than . This demonstrates that Chinas success not only benefits China, but also promotes the development of countries all around the world, said Nasser. Doing business in Yiwu makes me feel that we are all in a global village, he continued, adding that the Belt and Road Initiative has strengthened economic ties and business opportunities with many countries and has brought people closer to each other. As COVID spread across China at the end of January last year, Nassers company purchased more than , medical masks in Algeria to help Yiwu authorities. He also donated , yuan to the Yiwu Red Cross to fight the pandemic. As one of the engines of the Chinese economy, Zhejiang enjoys a superior business environment and infrastructure. Its also a key area in the Belt and Road Initiative. This brings globalization to China, which means stronger economic ties, and stronger connections between people, said Nasser.