Yiwu drives Zhejiangs rebound
2021/5/19 11:11
LeBron James  of the Los Angeles Lakers scores on a layup past Stephen Curry  of the Golden State Warriors during the second quarter at Staples Center in Los Angeles, California on February , .  Playoffs spot at stake as Lakers, Warriors lock horns LeBron vs Steph. Oh, what a way to get into NBA playoff mode. The matchups for the NBAs new playin tournament are set. It starts Tuesday night with the Eastern Conference No  Charlotte at No  Indiana, and No  Washington at No  Boston. And things shift to the Western Conference on Wednesday night No  San Antonio at No  Memphis, and No  Golden State at the seventhseeded Los Angeles Lakers. LeBron James and Stephen Curry have squared off four times for championships, back in the days of those WarriorsCleveland matchups in the NBA Finals being annual events. Theyll square off Wednesday for a slightly different prizethe No  seed in the West playoffs, but itll still be a game loaded with hype and intrigue. Itll be a different scenario, but another chapter in it, said Curry, the NBAs scoring champion this season for the second time in his career. At the end of the day, you expect greatness. Thats the part Ive enjoyed so much about playing in the finals against him... those games that matter, it just brings out another level of intensity and excitement and a sense of urgency about it, because you know how good you have to play to win games like that. The Lakers are still the second choice to win the NBA title, according to FanDuel, behind only Brooklyn. And theyre the favorites to win the West. Problem is, technically, theyre not in the playoffs yetand need a win in the playin round, Wednesday or Friday if necessary, just to get back to the postseason and have a chance to defend their championship. James said he considers Curry the MVP of the NBA this season. Hes eager to cross paths in a bigtime moment with Curry and the Warriors once again, and said hell take a playoffgame approach to the playin. Theyve got championship DNA as well, James said. Theyve been there. They know what it takes and what it feels like to be in pressure games. Confidence, among the Lakers, does not appear to be in short supply. Theyve been banged up all season, were with James and Anthony Davis for long stretches, and might have gotten another scare when James appeared to tweak his problematic right ankle in the latter stages of Sundays finale in New Orleans. LeBron James  of the Los Angeles Lakers drives on Stephen Curry  of the Golden State Warriors during the first half at Staples Center in Los Angeles, California on January , .  James said afterward that hell be fine, ready for what comes next. He made headlines a couple weeks ago when he said the person responsible for coming up with the idea of the playin tournament at the NBA should be fired. If the Lakers dont win one of their next two games and wind up missing the playoffs, his opinion of the tourney will figure to get worse. Were getting healthy at the right time, Lakers veteran Jared Dudley said. And nobody wants to see a healthy Lakers team. Under the old system, the Lakers, Warriors, Celtics and Wizards would be in the playoffs. The Grizzlies, Spurs, Pacers and Hornets would be out. Getting to the No  spot for the playin round in the East is a massive comeback for the Wizards, who started the season  and , were shut down for two weeks in January for coronavirusrelated issues, had to play  games in the seasons final  days to make up for lost time and were  early last month. Theyre  since. The playin was their path to saving the season. Im with the King, man. Why do they have this playin thing? Whoever did that, they need to be fired, Washington coach Scott Brooks said, tongue firmly in cheek behind his mask. No, Im kidding. I love this. It created so much excitement the last two weeks, and as we all know anytime you can create excitement and meaningful games in the last  games of the season its great for everyone involved. The  game winners in each conference go to the playoffs as No  seeds the West winner will play Phoenix in the first round, the East winner draws a matchup with Brooklyn. The  game loser will play host to the  winner in each conference whomever prevails there will be the No  seed and meet either Utahthe NBAs overall No  seedout West or Philadelphia in the East. But before the playoffs officially begin this weekend, LeBron vs. Steph, a pair of guys who just happened to both be born in Akron, Ohio, looms. Stephen Curry  and Lebron James  of Team James react during the first half against Team Durant in the th NBA AllStar Game at State Farm Arena in Atlanta, Georgia, US, on March , .  Youre talking about two of the greatest players of all time, Warriors coach Steve Kerr said. Both guys are still playing at such an elite level. And of course, four meetings in the finals is going to create a rivalry. But theres obviously tremendous mutual respect between the two of them. The other matchups are set No  Milwaukee faces No  Miami and No  New York plays No  Atlanta in the East quarterfinals, while No  Denver meets No  Portland and the fourthseeded Los Angeles Clippers drew No  Dallas in the West quarterfinals. Denver lost to Portland on Sunday, a result that kept the Blazers from the playinand kept the Nuggets from seeing the Lakers in round one. Good strategy, Dudley said. Boston and the Lakers have the inside track to postseason spots. As the highestseeded teams in the playin, they will get two chances if necessary, both at home, to win just one game and make the playoffs. You win, youre in. You lose, youre not, Celtics coach Brad Stevens said. I think that thats something that will add a great deal of intrigue to fans and people are going to be excited about it. But youve got to be appropriately prepared, again, to play a fast game with a clear mind. The game to decide No  in the East is Thursday, and the one thatll decide No  in the West is Friday. The playoffs start Saturday. Were excited that we have the opportunity to keep playing, Kerr said. Agencies via Xinhua