Effective medical waste disposal a major priority
2021/5/19 10:01
A support staff member operates an intelligent waste management cart developed by Beijingbased PingAnLenovo Smart Health Information Technology Ltd at Wuhan Union Hospital of China in Wuhan, Hubei province, in November. Provided to China Daily Newera smart technologies will help China deal with the mounting waste disposal challenges arising from the rapid development of the healthcare sector and greater consumption of medical products after the COVID epidemic. At a public hospital in Beijing, a bright yellow cart catches the eyes of passersby. The cart is used to collect and sort medical waste. With a few clicks, medical waste can be collected and sorted into bags quickly. Labels then protrude from the apparatus allowing hospital workers to properly categorize each bag. The intelligent cart can also have added features like facial recognition, even with staff donning masks, goggles and head coverings. A decade ago, hospital cleaning staff could only count on existing sewage and waste management systems, and all forms and labels had to be written and collected manually. Medical waste refers to all byproducts generated from a patients hospitalrelated experience, including during diagnosis, treatment and recovery. With the development of Chinas medical science and technology sector, the type and amount of disposable medical supplies have skyrocketed, resulting in continuous increases in the countrys medical waste. Last year, COVID began sweeping the globe, increasing medical waste including spent medical supplies such as masks, gloves and protective gowns. According to data from Shenzhen, Guangdongbased research firm AskCI Consulting, in , Chinas newly added medical mask waste totaled , metric tons. Together with other newly generated medical waste, the total weight surged by over  percent over . As medical waste has characteristics of direct or indirect infectivity and toxicity, it must be treated properly through processes including classification, disinfection and elimination. AskCI said that in , Chinas medical waste management market reached . billion yuan . billion. The market is expected to approach  billion yuan by . Zhang Min, general manager of the emerging business department of Beijingbased PingAnLenovo Smart Health Information Technology Ltddeveloper of the yellow medical waste management cartssaid Chinas development of medical waste management has experienced three eras. Back in , when hospital cleaning staffs finished medical waste sorting, they had to fill out labels and forms manually. Then in , the sector entered the . era, where cleaners were able to submit wasterelated information via digital terminals, increasing waste management efficiency. However, he noted that the data input methods, such as scanning and cardreading, raised requirements for cleaners, and some operations were not sufficiently userfriendly. And now, we are at the . era, where smart technologies are empowering medical waste treatment. For example, to help cleaners negotiate the system, the smart cart sends out audible alerts such as We are now in the hematology department. In addition, each of the five types of medical waste, such as infection and pathogenrelated types, will be marked on the screen by different colors. The screen enables gloveson operations, and to simplify procedures, each step on the screen can be completed with just two clicks, Zhang added. On March , the countrys Government Work Report explicitly mentioned that the collection and treatment of hazardous medical waste should be strengthened. Ten days later, the National Health Commission issued a guidance on building a graded assessment system of smart hospitals to evaluate their degrees of digitization, and intelligent waste management was among the assessment criteria. And the issue has become especially vital during the pandemic. Official data showed that when COVID broke out in China, there were  cities whose medical waste management systems were overloaded, and  others were nearly at full capacity. Zhao Qunying, director of the emergency management office of the Ministry of Ecology and Environment, said that to handle the supply gap of medical waste management, enhancing facility construction and improving standardized supervision are fundamental solutions. A revolution in medical waste management with quicker response times, more sophisticated planning and better treatment is on the way, Zhao said. Industry experts said that for domestic smart medical waste management technology solution providers, in addition to serving the countrys medical institutions, exporting their products overseas might be another good option. Data from Indias Center for Science and Environment showed that ever since the pandemic broke out in India, daily newly added medical waste in New Delhi surged from  tons before the contagion to  tons, said a report from India Today. Chinas medical waste management carts can be exported to these countries in need to save more lives, industry experts said.