Parents ought to take the lead in sex education
2021/11/2 10:21
A statue of Jinbao, the panda mascot of the China International Import Expo, is seen in Shanghai, on Oct , .  Shanghai is gearing up for the upcoming China International Import Expo scheduled to be held in Chinas financial center from Nov . As worlds first national level expo with imports as its theme, CIIE has witnessed three years of fruitful achievements, expansion and highlights. Many exhibitors and purchasers have become old friends by attending the event each year, while newcomers are continuously joining in as China opens its doors wider. This years CIIE is expected to attract nearly , business exhibitors from  countries and regions with a total of  countries and three international organizations participating in the country exhibition. Around  trading groups and  subgroups have been drawn to the fourth CIIE for professional procurement. The total exhibition area of this years CIIE will reach , square meters, , square meters larger than that of last year. Jinbao, the panda mascot of the China International Import Expo, as well as all the staff members preparing for the event are ready to welcome guests from home and abroad. People walk past a garden with an image of Jinbao, the panda mascot of the China International Import Expo, in Shanghai, on Oct , .  The National Convention Center Shanghai welcomes guests from home and abroad to the fourth China International Import Expo in Shanghai on Oct , .  A man takes a photo of Jinbao, the mascot of the China International Import Expo, in Shanghai on Oct , .  Posters for the fourth China International Import Expo are seen in Shanghai on Oct , .  Rubbish bins collecting used masks line up to serve guests for the upcoming China International Import Expo in Shanghai on Oct , .  Posters for the fourth China International Import Expo are seen in Shanghai on Oct , .  A technician adjusts equipment for the fourth China International Import Expo in Shanghai on Oct , . 