The world in photos May
2021/5/17 11:14
Here are some of the most striking images taken from around the world over the past week. People enjoy the scenery from a viewing platform in Rome, Italy, May , . Italy formally opened its borders on Sunday for restrictionfree travel for visitors from some countries. While it appeared that few took advantage of the eased travel rules on their first day, businesses in Rome say they are ready.  Children enjoy their time on the occasion of Eid alFitr in Damascus, capital of Syria, on May , .  A nurse wearing a protective mask lines up for an event named nurses community pantry inside a hospital in Manila, the Philippines on May , . The nurses community pantry is an event where baskets of food, shoes, bags and other items are given to nurses in celebration of the International Nurses Day, which falls on May , to pay tribute to all nurses.  A gasoline station runs out of gas in Arlington, Virginia, the United States, May , . US Secretary of Energy Jennifer Granholm urged Americans not to hoard gasoline as the operator of a main US fuel pipeline is expected to fully resume operations in a few days after it was forced to shut down due to a cybersecurity attack.  Protesters are seen during their clashes with members of Israeli border police following an antiIsrael protest against the violence in Jerusalem, in the West Bank city of Bethlehem, on May , . Tension between Israelis and Palestinians has been flaring up over the past few days amid the escalating violence.  A woman lays flowers at a makeshift memorial outside the representative office of the Republic of Tatarstan to commemorate victims of the deadly shooting in Kazan School Number , in Moscow, Russia, May , .  A plane flies over Raouche Rocks at sunset in Beirut, Lebanon, on May , .  Ugandas incumbent President Yoweri Museveni inspects the guard of honor during the inauguration ceremony at Kololo Independence Grounds in Kampala, Uganda, May , . Museveni was sworn in on Wednesday to serve for the sixth fiveyear term in office.  Bouquets of flowers are placed on desks to mourn victims of the recent terror attacks on a girl school in Kabul, Afghanistan, May , . The government of Afghanistan declared Tuesday as a national mourning day to pay tribute to the victims of the recent terror attacks on a girl school in Kabul and on a group of students in eastern Logar province.  A COVID patient gets oxygen support inside the Oxygen on Wheel, a bus that reaches out to patients in immediate need of oxygen, in Bangalore, India, on May , . 