Confusion reigns after US lifts mask guidance
2021/5/15 3:19
FILE PHOTO A TSA officer wears a mask and gloves, amid the worldwide coronavirus outbreak, at Logan International Airport in Boston, Massachusetts, U.S., March , .  WASHINGTON  To mask or not to mask? That is the question facing US states, businesses and people in their everyday lives in the wake of the bombshell announcement by the top health authority lifting most restrictions for those fully vaccinated against Covid. President Joe Biden hailed the change in guidance by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, calling it a great day for America. But if the idea sounded straightforward in theory, it has raised questions about how to implement it practically  the foremost being, how do you tell if a person is fully vaccinated? Then there is the trauma felt by many reluctant to let go of safety measures in the worlds hardesthit country, where more than , have lost their lives to the virus. The CDCs recommendations are nonbinding, and actual policy is left for the relevant local authorities or employers to decide. It also doesnt apply to planes, buses, trains, and other forms of public transportation, or to medical settings such as hospitals. The situation has left CEOs and local officials caught in a dilemma  whether to follow the scientific recommendations right away, or make sure people are comfortable with it. Before, masks were important, and all of a sudden they are not, remarked Ivan Matta, a yearold from New York who works in a company that plans vacations in Europe. Matta is still wearing his mask outside, despite being fully vaccinated. I believe there are lots of people who wont use the mask even if they arent vaccinated, he added. Mask use is also a politically divisive issue, with conservativeleaning parts of the country much quicker to go without than liberal areas. Matters came to a head in Congress Friday, when an aide to far right Republican Marjorie Taylor Greene shouted at Democratic representative Eric Swalwell to take off his mask. No one should be bullied for wearing a mask. So I told the bully what I thought of his order, Swalwell later tweeted. Regulatory patchwork Places like New York state and Washington have said they are reviewing the new recommendations, and havent yet moved to change their indoor mask mandates. Symbolizing the disconnect, First Lady Jill Biden on Friday was photographed with her mask on during a visit to the National Museum of African American History and Culture in the capital. A day earlier, she quipped We feel naked! without a mask. The rest of the country is a patchwork of regulations. Minnesota and Pennsylvania are standing by their current rules, Connecticut says it will update next week. In Texas, and half the states of the union, nothing will change   states had already lifted their mask mandates, and  never had them in the first place, according to data collected by the health group AARP. Then theres the question of what major companies will do. Contacted by AFP, General Motors said it was reviewing the guidance, pharmacy chain CVS said it was reevaluating its instore mask policy, while rival Walgreens said it was keeping its regime in place for the time being. The Wynn casino in Las Vegas will likely change its stance, but United Food and Commercial Workers, which represents . million people, came out unequivocally against. The CDC guidance is confusing, complained the union. Essential workers are still forced to play mask police for shoppers who are unvaccinated and refuse to follow local COVID safety measures. Are they now supposed to become the vaccination police? Encouraging vaccination The unions point was backed by Johns Hopkins epidemiologist Jennifer Nuzzo. This is why masks will likely still be required for all in public spaces like stores, she tweeted. But employers can use new guidelines for their employees. As cases fall and vaccinations rise, we will see mask requirement go away. Many scientists, who thought that the CDCs guidance lagged too far behind the latest data, have applauded the new recommendations. Accumulating data has shown the extremely high efficacy of authorized vaccines, not just to prevent symptomatic Covid but also asymptomatic infection and onward transmission. Fully vaccinated people  who comprise  percent of the population  are neither at danger personally nor do they present a risk to others. Cases meanwhile are dropping drastically. Authorities are hoping the new guidance will help motivate remaining holdouts, in a country where supply is now greatly outstripping demand. Some experts remain cautious, particularly for places where transmission rates are higher. My initial reaction was supportive, but the more I think about it, I wish they had said, Lets do this on July . If you arent vaccinated yet, this is your chance to go do it, said airborne disease specialist Linsey Marr. Give people time to plan. Agencies Via Xinhua