All on home turf
2021/5/14 15:37
A new breed of smarter, leaner, and more innovative Chinese mainland labels is driving a consumer brand revolution in the country. Luo Weiteng reports from Hong Kong. Hennes  Mauritz, Nike, Adidas and Uniqlo  some of the biggest Western and Asian household names in fashion clothing and footwear  have found themselves in hot water on the Chinese mainland for making groundless claims about labor conditions in Xinjiang Uyghur autonomous region and refusing to source products or yarn from the territory. Chinese shoppers and celebrities have stood their ground, respectively vowing to boycott these brands and sever ties with them. United States electric auto giant Tesla was accused of being arrogant in China following a spat with a customer who complained about a Tesla vehicles alleged brake failure during the Shanghai auto show. Some argue that previous Chinese consumer outrage, including boycotts of Western brands like Dolce  Gabbana, Christian Dior and Balenciaga, hasnt had the desired effect. The consumer backlash comes at a delicate time as foreign labels face mounting pressure from a new breed of Chinese peers who are smarter, leaner, more innovative and more in tune with the whims and habits of the domestic market. The whole story adds a footnote to the local guochao trend, said Zhu Lei, a yearold native of Sichuan province. It isnt about whether foreign brands will eventually lose out in China. Its about getting more local consumers to accept homegrown products. Zhu used to be a regular consumer of Uniqlo and Zara, but has thrown her weight behind Chinese fashion group Urban Revivo. She has been to the groups flagship store in the provincial capital Chengdu several times, but only recently realized that its a homegrown brand. Although Western media has tried to interpret the image disasters as a cautionary tale showing how precarious China can be for big foreign brands, she said she believes the days of foreign companies reaping their fortunes in the worlds secondlargest economy with scant regard for Chinese consumers thoughts and passions are over. Its fair to say a wealth of domestic highquality products allow us to vote with our feet and support them, said Zeng Yong, a yearold manager of a pharmaceutical company in Jiangsu province. Wouldbe customers like him may have second thoughts about, or simply see no reason for buying Tesla in future. Rival mainland businesses  automakers, startups or technology groups  are potentially good substitutes. Were seeing a consumer brand revolution, both on the psychological and physical fronts, said marketing consultant Zhou Jianing. If foreign mega brands, while raking in most of their revenues in China and with a large following here, dont bother to understand the guochao trend and see it as a real market force to be reckoned with, theyll soon be falling from grace. Its no coincidence the guochao trend is taking place amid Chinas economic transformation  from an exportled economy to one driven by consumption, said Joohee An, a senior portfolio manager at Mirae Asset Management. Fueled by rising trade and political tensions between the worlds two major ideologies, Chinese consumers desire for local substitutes has accelerated, as growing patriotism pushes more of them to go for homegrown goods, An said. According to a study by global consumer goods tracking and data group Nielsen for the second quarter of , nearly  percent of Chinese mainland consumers preferred homegrown brands, coinciding with surging Chinese nationalist sentiment. Consumers in first and secondtier cities are more eager to snap up Chinese brands, with  percent citing their passion for local traditional culture and symbols. The coronavirus pandemic has added impetus to Chinese labels in winning over consumers. Before COVID, the guochao trend was only related to stronger interest in Chinese culture and heritage. But after the pandemic, buying Chinese goods is a show of solidarity, said Gianvito Donghia, managing partner of Creative Capital China and Altavia. China label new fashion The Made in China label is no longer just a symbol of where the product is manufactured. It now represents originality and craftsmanship, said Charlee Ree, founder and CEO of Hong Kongbased artificial intelligence marketing platform EternityX. EternityX said the campaign performance for services and products with Chinese cultural elements is  percent higher than those of others. More established and previously considered outdated brands, such as LiNing, Anta and Bosideng, are rebranding themselves to appeal to younger audiences, who arent as attached to foreign names as their parents were. Historical or timehonored brands like White Rabbit candy, skincare brand Pechoin and Warrior trainers, are drawing on nostalgia to revive dormant beauties. New brands, including Hua Xizi Florasis, Perfect Diary, Heytea, Wangbaobao and Zhongxuegao, are boasting incredible sales seemingly out of nowhere with their guerilla marketing strategies. With Chinese consumers likely to continue buying locally and digitally, Ree said that guochao is forcing brands to undergo a digital transformation. The meteoric rise of social and content ecommerce in China has renewed nationwide interest in local brands, with leading ecommerce platforms and online shopping festivals fueling the guochao craze, she said. In turn, it calls for brands to better understand the complex nature of the greater array of social and content platforms and tools available to carve out a niche for their products. To successfully weave the heritage into the brands DNA, the first step is to cultivate culture into an intellectual property asset and then push it out to discerning consumers through social media, suggested Donghia. For example, Ree has taken a beauty brand, Hua Xizi, that has woven a famous Chinese poem into its brand name. Founded in , Hua Xizi takes reference from ancient Chinese recipes for cosmetics, using flower essences and herbal extracts to create cosmetics suitable for Asian womens skin. In addition to product quality, Ree said, its culturebased design of the packaging and online store helps in building their brand image. Its partnership with Chinese liquor brand Luzhou Laojiao on Valentines Day  extended its reach and visibility to an audience that Hua Xizi previously had never had access to. Brands without the heritage have incorporated elements of Chinese history through crossover collaborations, noted Donghia, citing Chinese makeup brand Perfect Diary, which developed a range of eyeshadow palettes inspired by geographical regions in China. The brand itself is a master of digital storytelling and content marketing on social media. Indeed, the Chinese market is too immense for any single brand to try capitalizing on all of it, said Ree. Currently, crossovers or intersectoral collaborations offer a vital means for brands to reach out to new consumers. A case in point is the Milk Candy Flavored Lip Balm from the heritage brand White Rabbit  the result of its partnership with Chinese skincare brand Maxam. The traditional confectioner also joined forces with fragrance brand Scent Library on a range of candyscented products, whose limitededition collection for sale on Tmall sold out within  minutes of its release. Cobranding is not simply putting A and B together. They have to see if their DNAs do match, and find an interesting way to mix the elements of both brands, and then convey it creatively from a design and delivery perspective, Donghia said. However, the fierce competition in collaboration can lead to unlikely pairings, such as the joint products launched by insect repellent brand Liushen and KFC China  a herbalwaterflavored KFC coffee drink and a coffeescented version of Liushens repellent. The pandemic also inspired an unusual partnership between Chinese cold medicine brand  and domestic packagednoodle brand RamenTalk to create a coldcare gift box that looked like the iconic, extralarge box of . Cobranding a winwin Such mega partnerships emphasize creativity and innovation, making them attractive to young consumers. But success isnt possible without a keen understanding of the countrys everchanging consumer and demographic landscape. In this respect, foreign brands are at a competitive disadvantage, noted Zhou. Ree said she believes that cobranding benefits both local and international brands. Global brands can win greater appeal with more culturally confident, patriotic consumers, while local products achieve a certain cachet of internationalism. She cites the special joint capsule collections launched by Karl Lagerfeld and Tsingtao Beer, as well as a limitededition makeup bag jointly released by Rihannas beauty brand Fenty Beauty and Chinese tea shop Heytea, as vivid examples. As almost every millennialsavvy brand is scrambling to launch guochaoinspired collaborations, giving rise to superficial, repetitive Chinaproud narratives, Zhou Zhendong, professor at the School of Journalism and Communication of Xiamen University, said todays guochao movement is taking a step beyond trending, overused Chinese motifs, such as brush calligraphy, Peking Opera facial masks, cranes, auspicious clouds and ceramics. The trend itself should elicit real cultural respect within and outside China, rather than reinforcing the stereotypes about Chinese culture among global audiences, he said. Dismissing the socalled international narratives, he said exporting Chinas culture and aesthetic boils down to the selection of cultural symbols and a basic logic of communication. Cultural communication, he pointed out, calls for subtle rebellion to go against the grain and obtain serious cultural reach. He highlighted Mulan  the legendary tale of a strong Chinese woman who passes herself off as a man and performs heroic deeds  and Po from Kung Fu Panda, the big, lovable bear that make an unusual hero for a kung fu movie, as two success stories. For years, there has been a gap between the attitude of public opinion toward Chinese and foreign fads, which resulted from a significant difference between the recognition of value of native culture and alien culture, said Zhou. Riding high on the undertaking and goal to celebrate trendy indigenous Chinese labels, Zhou said he believes that consumers are now reaching a new height of public opinion on Chinese fads. Guochaoinspired products dont have to be packaged with global narratives to build up names locally or internationally. With the genuine curiosity about Chinas cultural heritage, brands native to the country can maintain their essential identity and look cool on the global stage. Despite an increasing number of hypedup, guochaoinspired labels, I see few signs of consumer fatigue ahead. Weve yet to reach the peak of sophistication and perfection in our journey of Chinese fads and Chinaproud narratives.