IOC says the public opposition not affect Tokyo
2021/5/13 20:27
A passerby wearing a protective face mask walks past a screen showing the logo of the Tokyo  Olympic Games that have been postponed to  due to the coronavirus disease COVID pandemic, in Tokyo on April , .  BEIJING  The International Olympic Committee IOC spokesman Mark Adams said that he believed the Tokyo Olympics would be a historic event, despite wide public opposition. Before the online press conference, IOC Executive Board EB held a video conference on Wednesday to discuss the current situation of epidemic prevention in Japan. Seiko Hashimoto, president of the Tokyo Olympic Organizing Committee, said that the IOC expressed support and appreciation for Tokyos work. More than two months before the Tokyo Olympics, the Tokyo Olympic Organizing Committee is facing turbulent pressure from public opinion. The epidemic situation in Japan continues to worsen, and the number of confirmed cases remains high. The latest public opinion survey in Japan shows that up to  percent of Japanese people want to cancel the Tokyo Olympics. At the online press conference, Adams said that he understands the concerns of all sectors of society, but still showed confidence about the Tokyo Olympics. We listen but wont be guided by public opinion. He added, I am very confident that we will see public opinion hugely in favor of the Games. There will be ups and downs in public opinion. We have to take account of public opinion on a longer term. As things stand now we are moving full ahead. We continue to plan for full Games. Thats the way it has to be for us, Adams said. The press conference was interrupted by a protester who disguised as a journalist. He waved a banner that read No to Olympics and shouted No Olympics anywhere, then the video line was cut off. Adams said that currently, about , athletes have qualified for the Tokyo Olympics, accounting for  percent of the total another  percent will be qualified before June , and the world rankings of specific events will decide about  percent of the qualifications.