Nigeria reintroduces strict COVID measures
2021/5/13 17:02
FILE PHOTO A man wearing a protective face mask walks outside a Shoprite store in Abuja, Nigeria, August , .  Nigeria has reintroduced strict measures for COVID prevention and control amid high risk of a surge of cases in Africa. Under the new measures, which took effect on Tuesday, event centers, bars and night clubs will remain closed until further notice, while restaurants will be required to provide dinein service at  percent capacity. All recreational venues, gyms and indoor sports facilities will remain closed until June . Enclosed mass gatherings will be limited to  people, with requirements to observe social distancing and wearing of face masks. All international passengers arriving in the West African country will be required to undergo a sevenday mandatory quarantine. All public settings, including workplace buildings, businesses, places of worship, recreational facilities, markets and motor parks are required to enforce temperature checks and a nomask, noentry policy. Each state government is required to set up a mobile tribunal for the prosecution of violators. Security agents are authorized to arrest violators under the Health Protection Regulation . Since May , nonNigerians and nonresident permit holder travelers from Brazil, India and Turkey, where there are high incidences of cases, high fatality rates and widespread prevalence of coronavirus variants, have been banned from entering Nigeria. Nigerians and those with a permanent resident permit arriving from the three countries, are required to undergo a sevenday mandatory quarantine in a governmentapproved facility at the pointofentry city and at a cost to the passenger. Passengers from other destinations should observe a sevenday selfisolation at their final destination and are required to receive a test for the novel coronavirus on day seven at a selected laboratory. All inbound international passengers are required to certify they are negative for the virus with a test taken four days before departure. According to the presidential steering committee on the coronavirus, the measures will enable the government to effectively prevent and control the resurgence of an acute phase of the pandemic as well as continue to strengthen its public health systems, and protect the lives of Nigerians and the economy. While the countrys vaccine rollout has begun, there is a shortage in global supplies affected by the current situation in India. This translates to a delay in vaccinating a large proportion of the population, and therefore a risk of a large outbreak especially in the context of poor adherence to the recommended public health and social measures, the committee said in a statement. As of May , Nigeria had recorded a total of ,  cases and , deaths. Lagos, the countrys largest city, leads in the number of infections, with , cases and  deaths, followed by the Federal Capital Territory with ,  cases and  deaths and Kaduna with , cases and  deaths.