Yunnan to welcome butterfly swarms
2021/5/13 7:30
SHI YUCHINA DAILY Indias escalating health burden, faltering vaccination rate, and lack of a convincing government strategy to contain the novel coronavirus pandemic have prompted us at Oxford Economics to downgrade our  GDP growth forecast for the country from . percent previously to . percent. We expect Indias GDP to contract sequentially in the second quarter as more and more states resort to stricter lockdowns to contain the pandemic, and average . percent quarteronquarter in a notable slide from our presecond wave average growth forecast of . percent. Still, further downward revision may be warranted if struggling health systems force major regions, including Maharashtra, Karnataka and Delhi, to prolong lockdowns. At the start of the second wave, we had identified four potentially interlinked sources of downside risk to our GDP forecast a rapid spread of the second wave leading to tighter social distancing measures, a slowing vaccination rate, the reintroduction of hard lockdowns by the central or state governments, and a substantial worsening of the health situation. Since then, the rapidly swelling second wave has taken a big toll on Indias healthcare infrastructure. The health system has collapsed in the worsthit regions, with even New Delhi facing acute shortage of oxygen and COVID hospital beds. And while the official mortality rate has edged lower, it masks a high death count. Despite rising pressure, however, the central governments containment strategy has changed little. Given the disastrous economic impact of last years lockdown, it continues to prefer targeted measures and vaccinations to contain the virus. But the ferocity of the second wave is increasingly challenging this approach and has pushed several states to significantly tighten social distancing measures, even impose complete lockdowns, over the last couple of weeks. In order to expedite the vaccination drive, the government has of late approved several international vaccines, given grants to domestic companies to expand their vaccine production capacities and made everyone above  eligible for vaccination from May . Although these are positive developments, it remains to be seen how quickly this will speed up the vaccination rate. We reiterate that international experience suggests that Indias daily vaccination rate will have to increase to . million for immunity levels to increase sufficiently to bring down case numbers. Yet supply snags and logistical issues have dragged down the daily vaccination rate to below  million in May from a peak of . million in April. With the key downside risks to our baseline materializing, we have downgraded our  growth forecast by . percentage points to . percent. Sequentially, we expect GDP to contract once again in the second quarter of this year, before recovery resumes in the second half. But three factors suggest the economic impact will be less severe than during the first wave. First, shorter, less stringent lockdowns. In a recent speech, the Indian prime minister advised states to not impose blanket lockdowns and instead focus on microcontainment of the virus. Although Oxford Stringency Index for India rose to  in April from  in March, it largely reflected tight restrictions in Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh and Delhi. Since then at least  more major states have announced complete or partial lockdowns. But these lockdowns are of shorter duration compared with last years national lockdown and allow for more movement of goods, vehicles and people. Second, low willingness for voluntary social distancing. Consumer behavior has likely turned more cautious, but a large segment of the population seems to have adapted to the pandemic. For example, mobility levels in Uttar PradeshIndias most populous state where daily case counts and deaths have risen rapidlyremained well above those of Maharashtra, which has the highest case count, until a partial lockdown was imposed. This is true of other hotspots as well as those that had earlier chosen a lighttouch approach to containment. And third, activity is becoming more resilient to the virus. Economic evidence suggests businesses are learning to continue operating amid the pandemic. This was clearly seen during the first wave, when activity staged a steep rebound from the lockdown lows even as COVID cases continued to climb, and it is corroborated by the latest high frequency data. While signs of weakness in economic activity as evidenced by the downward revision to our growth forecast cant be disputed, the decline seems nowhere close to the collapse in activity witnessed last year. Still, risks to our forecast remain to the downside. We expect Indias national mobility to stabilize a few percentage points below the current levels. But with the second wave yet to show signs of peaking in many states and the rising burden on the health infrastructure, the risk that more regions may have to retain relatively strict measures for a longer period is increasing. More widespread and lengthier lockdowns would further restrict economic activity, necessitating another downward revision to our forecast, especially since the larger and more economically important regions are bearing the brunt of the second wave and could impose tougher lockdowns of two weeks or more. The author is head of India and South East Asia Economics at Oxford Economics. The views dont necessarily reflect those of China Daily.