Leaders look to bolster EU resilience
2021/5/12 4:05
Indias Prime Minister Narendra Modi receives his second dose of a coronavirus disease COVID vaccine at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences AIIMS hospital in New Delhi, India, April , .  NEW DELHI  Prime Minister Narendra Modi will not attend the G Summit in person in the UK, the Indian government said Tuesday, as the country reels from a massive wave of coronavirus cases. India is not part of the Group of Seven wealthy democracies but was invited to the talks by Britain, which holds the rotating presidency of the group throughout . Given the prevailing Covid situation, it has been decided that the Prime Minister will not attend the G Summit in person, foreign ministry spokesman Arindam Bagchi said in a statement. The decision to virtually attend the leaders summit in Cornwall in southern England in June comes as India reported nearly , fresh cases and almost , new deaths on Monday. The decision also comes after a virus scare within Indias foreign ministry delegation in early May. Foreign minister Subrahmanyam Jaishankar, who had travelled to Britain for G meetings with his counterparts, said then that he would avoid inperson meetings after a possible exposure to positive cases. India  a country of . billion people  is the worlds secondmost infected after the United States with nearly  million Covid cases. The new surge in cases has ravaged major cities, including the capital New Delhi and financial hub Mumbai, pushing hospitals to breaking point and leading to severe shortages in oxygen and beds. Many states across the country have imposed lockdowns, as well as curbs on movement and activities to try and reduce the spread of the virus. But the pathogen is also spreading into rural areas, where the majority of the population lives, overwhelming local health centres but also crematoriums and cemeteries. Foreign aid has been pouring into India to alleviate the nations dire oxygen shortage as part of a huge international effort. The urgent supplies  from the United States, Russia and the UK among others  include oxygen generators, face masks and vaccines. The World Health Organisation said Monday that a Covid variant spreading in India appeared to be more contagious as it classified as being of concern. Maria Van Kerkhove, the WHOs lead on Covid, said early studies also showed that antibodies appeared to have less impact on the variant in laboratory studies. AFP