Banks optimism may mask cause for concern
2021/5/11 17:27
The GUPON products in  versus in . Photo provided to chinadaily.com.cn Shanghai Huayi Group Company launched several new products by its selfowned brands, including cosmetic brand GUPON and cleaning brand Shanghai Yaozao, during a summit forum held in Shanghai on Tuesday. Besides launching the new products, which includes laundry capsules, detergent, facial masks, and hair care products, Huayi Group also signed strategic cooperation agreements with timehonored art education brands such as Shanghai Littlestar Group and Alibabas online marketing technology platform Alimama to further promote timehonored domestic brands. Organized by Shanghai Huayi Group Company and Shanghai Soap Corp, the forum also invited industry experts and related enterprises to discuss the future development of innovation and upgrading of domestic products. Huayi Group will persist in promoting and empowering the timehonored brand and contribute to the building of Shanghai as an international fashion and brand capital, said Liu Xunfeng, president of Huayi Group. The new products of Shanghai Yaozao that released in Shanghai on Tuesday. Photo provided to chinadaily.com.cn According to the th FiveYearPlan , China should take action to create domestic brands, protect the development of timehonored Chinese brands, enhance the influence and competitiveness of domestic brands, and take the lead in cultivating several highend consumer goods brands. Statistics by Tmall show that Shanghais timehonored brands have the fastest growth and the most innovative vitality in China. There were  timehonored brands on ecommerce platform Tmall with annual sales exceeding  million yuan . million in . A third of these brands come from Shanghai. As the leading enterprise in the industry, Huayi Group owns timehonored brands including renowned footwear brand Warrior and Bee  Flower. The new products of GUPON that released in Shanghai on Tuesday. Photo provided to chinadaily.com.cn