The beads that link up HK and mainland
2021/5/7 13:33
Vanessa Tang Sauhan, director of the Hong Kong governments liaison unit in Shenzhen, delivers a speech on collaboration among cities of the GuangdongHong KongMacao Greater Bay Area. PHOTO PROVIDED TO CHINA DAILY Therere two calendars on the office desk of Vanessa Tang Sauhan, director of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region governments Shenzhen Liaison Unit. One shows the statutory public holidays in Hong Kong and the other shows those of the Chinese mainland. Shes accustomed to checking the calendars first before contacting people or organizations in either city. The arrangement dictates the nature of her work  she needs to know the pace of living of residents on both sides, adapt to the different lifestyles and serve as a bridge between them. Tang took up the post in Shenzhen last year  the th anniversary of the units establishment. As the SARs first citylevel liaison body based on the mainland, it has contributed to the formulation of nearly every major policy involving ShenzhenHong Kong collaboration in the past decade. Tang faces a new landscape in postpandemic crossborder cooperation, and is poised to lead the unit in exploring further collaboration and bilateral exchanges. The Shenzhen liaison unit is among a comprehensive network of offices the SAR government has opened on the mainland since . Their responsibilities include strengthening liaison and communication between Hong Kong and the mainland, enhancing governmenttogovernment collaboration, promoting Hong Kongs trade and commercial relations with its mainland counterparts, as well as facilitating investment and supporting Hong Kong people and enterprises on the mainland. Tang was transferred to Shenzhen in February last year at the height of the pandemic on the mainland. But most of the liaison units routine work, such as organizing activities and visiting agencies, had to be suspended for several months. It wasnt until April and May that all of its members  two from Hong Kong and two from the mainland  have been able to work together at the office, located in Shenzhens Futian district. For members of the team, even familiarizing with each other isnt easy. They may have met several times, but its still difficult to recognize each other as all of them are wearing face masks. Although the pandemic in Shenzhen was brought under control in the latter half of last year, restrictions on holding largescale gatherings and activities remain in place. As a result, the China Shenzhen International Cultural Industries Fair  one of the citys largest events held annually  was put on the back burner for several months and had to go online in November. Making preparations for setting up the Hong Kong exhibition hall at the event is one of the liaison units most important tasks, and was Tangs first big assignment in Shenzhen. Given the greater flexibility with online work, the team launched a virtual D pavilion showcasing the designs of  Hong Kong exhibitors. Covering a wide range of activities, such as travel, working and living at home, the designs drew more than , clicks. The Central district of Hong Kong left and Luohu district of Shenzhen. PHOTO PROVIDED TO CHINA DAILY Aimed at boosting ties with the mainland, the SAR government has opened five economic and trade offices in various provinces since the handover. Each is responsible for enhancing cooperation with five or six neighboring provinces. In view of the rapid economic development in some mainland cities, the SAR government has established  liaison units under the five offices since  to bolster ties with them. The Shenzhen liaison unit was the first to be formed for this purpose. Tasked with propelling ShenzhenHong Kong collaboration, the unit strives to build up links between government departments, companies, social organizations, as well as residents of the two cities. When the unit opened, it was involved in the policy making process of Qianhai  a newly established pilot zone in Shenzhen, which emerged as the poster child of crossborder cooperation. With a series of experimental policies, especially in finance, the zone had attracted more than , Hong Kong enterprises, and incubated over  Hong Kong entrepreneurial teams, as of October. The unit mainly helps government departments in Hong Kong and Shenzhen to better understand the latest developments on each side, finds the right people to link up with, and promotes policies favorable for crossborder collaboration. In the past decade, cooperation between both cities has made big strides, covering broader areas and focusing on more issues. Currently, innovation and technology, youth development, as well as the cultural and creative industry, are the key areas for both sides to unleash their potential, said Tang. The liaison body also helps Hong Kong people to settle in Shenzhen, whether theyre working, studying, or engaging in social or business activities. Besides enlightening them regularly about the mainlands institutions and policies, Tangs team helps them to solve complex problems and reflects their views and suggestions to the relevant government departments. According to Tang, more young entrepreneurs from Hong Kong have gone to the mainland in search of opportunities. Besides the much soughtafter information and technology sector, others are engaged in early childhood education, blood sugar testing, and speech recognition and translation. She said the opportunities the youngsters have found for themselves may even be better than those offered by the government. She encouraged more Hong Kong youths to explore the broad stage in the GuangdongHong KongMacao Greater Bay Areas development. Before moving to Shenzhen, Tang served at the SAR governments liaison unit in Xian, Shaanxi province, for three years. She said Shenzhen is young, dynamic and always open to changes and innovation  whereas Xian is renowned for its ancient culture and history. At the forefront of the nations reform and openingup, here in Shenzhen, I can see more rapid and drastic changes, and also the nations future development path, she said. Having lived on the mainland for four years, Tang has adapted herself quite well to the working and living environment. WeChat has replaced business cards and has become her major communication channel with Hong Kong colleagues in charge of mainland affairs. Theres also the convenience of making payments or ordering food online, which she relishes. Shenzhen also has more food options, including her favorite Hakka cuisine, she said. In view of the prolonged quarantine arrangements, Tang has few chances of returning to Hong Kong to see her family or friends although her home in Yuen Long is close to the border. Unperturbed by the travel restrictions, Tang sees it as a chance to better understand and embrace Shenzhen. She cited Nantou Ancient Town  a revitalization heritage project in downtown Shenzhen  as a good place to explore the city. Only by strengthening connections, she said, would there be more chances for collaboration. Through their years of crossborder liaison work, Tang and her colleagues serve as small beads linking up different parties in Hong Kong and on the mainland. Theyre also acting as a window through which the people on either side can have a clearer image of each other.