Shanghai Disney finds no cases so far after testing
2021/11/1 9:21
Shanghai Disney Resort.  Over , people tested negative for COVID at the Shanghai Disney Resort, after the entertainment complex conducted massive onsite nucleic acid tests on Sunday night and announced temporary closures to cooperate with an epidemic probe linked to other provinces. As of  am on Monday, all the , people tested at the facility reported negative results, the Shanghai municipal government said in its official WeChat channel. A total of  physical objects and environment samples from the site were also tested negative, the notice said, adding that all relevant venues have undergone terminal cleaning. Shanghai Disneyland and the neighboring Disneytown is closed today and tomorrow due to epidemiological investigations related to COVID. Glamorous displays light up the night at the Shanghai Disney Resort on Oct , .  Despite the emergency, glamorous displays lit up the night and placated visitors as they waited patiently in line for testing at the exits  a prerequisite for leaving the facility. Guests who were inside the park were reminded to strictly comply with epidemic prevention measures including wearing a mask and maintaining social distance at all times. Customers can also purchase blankets and cloaks at Disney shops to keep warm, according to social media posts by visitors at the park. Shanghai Disneyland is highly responsive and considerate in terms of its contingency plans, Xie Shichen, a guest going through the testing procedure, wrote in a memo posted on Peoples Dailys online channel. Chinese and English bilingual notices are broadcast, informing people of ticket refund and exchange policies, Xie said. In a nutshell, the responses are smooth, precise and fast. At the meantime, the Shanghai Municipal Transportation Commission dispatched  shuttle buses to fetch visitors, after suspending operations of metro Line  a key subway route connecting Disneyland and the city center from  on Sunday. Upon leaving the resort, guests are also required to undergo a second round of nucleic acid testing after  hours. If both tests are confirmed to be negative, they will then be asked to follow a day selfhealth monitoring protocol. Per the request of the Shanghai municipal governments epidemic prevention and control task force, people who had visited the resort over the weekend need to immediately notify their residential neighborhood committees, companies and schools, and take COVID tests at designated hospitals and clinics. The office has published a list of  designated testing sites, which are open  hours.