Bumper harvest brightens Zimbabwes economic prospects
2021/5/7 10:46
A man wears a mask as he walks past closed shops during a lockdown aimed at limiting the spread of the coronavirus disease COVID in Harare, Zimbabwe, Jan , .  After experiencing successive seasons of drought, Zimbabwe is poised for a bumper harvest. The country will produce nearly . million metric tons of cereal grains, including maize, sorghum, pearl and finger millet, according to the Second Round Crop and Livestock Assessment Report  Season, released by the Ministry of Lands, Agriculture, Fisheries, Water and Rural Resettlement. Since there is a national requirement of around . million tons for human and livestock consumption, a surplus of . million tons will be left. Maize production is estimated at . million tons, which is  percent higher than the previous season. Production of small grains has gone up  percent to nearly , tons compared with last season. Altogether, food crop production rose  percent from last season. Cotton production is estimated at , tons in the  seasona  percent increase from last seasons level. Soybean production is expected to increase by  percent to , tons. According to the United Nations, in the last agricultural season, a severe drought left . million peopleabout half of the countrys populationwithout food security. Garikai Chaunza, general manager of the Grain Millers Association of Zimbabwe, said the bumper harvest would help the government reduce the import bill for wheat and maize, and save the country more than  million. It means an improved economy with sufficient food for both humans and livestock. This would boost production capacity, which was slightly below  percent of capacity because of COVID and the nonavailability of grains, he said. Paul Zakariya, executive director of the Zimbabwe Farmers Union, said that following a good season, it is imperative to bring joy to farmers through timely payments that encourage them to continue to produce and make a living. Farmers will need to be paid cash so that they are able to buy inputs in time for next season, he said. Agricultural inputs include feed, seeds, equipment and fertilizer. We also expect correction to be made in the marketing of cotton. Last season was not a very good season for farmers because they didnt get paid as they expected. Zakariya said the new producer prices for commercial crops for the  marketing season were attractive and can work well for farmers who produce more tons per hectare. Charles Dhewa, CEO of Knowledge Transfer Africa, said bumper harvests were now rare, so there was a need to move with urgency to take advantage of this seasons crop. As an agribased economy, when agriculture does well, it boosts industry and communities where people rely on agriculture, but we need to maximize on what we have produced this year, he said. Dhewa said that, unfortunately for farmers, a glut in commodities was pushing prices down in alternative markets. Generally, prices of all commodities are going down, but some commodities are selling at abnormally low pricesan indication that the market is saturated. If the prices continue dropping, it means farmers are not going to be able to go back to the field, because the price of inputs doesnt correspondingly go down, he said. Dhewa said a solution would be to provide valueadded commodities or hold back on selling commodities until prices have improved.