Zimbabwean president to get nd Sinovac vaccine dose
2021/5/7 8:46
Joshua Wong.  Activist, along with three others, jailed for participation in illegal assembly Hong Kongs District Court on Thursday sentenced activist Joshua Wong Chifung to  months in jail for participating in an illegal assembly in June . The court sentenced three other activists, Lester Shum, Tiffany Yuen Kawai and Jannelle Rosalynne Leung, who took part in the same assembly, to six months, four months and four months respectively. Judge Stanley Chan Kwongchi determined that the defendants had ignored from the very beginning that the meeting was unlawful under the polices objection issued on June , as well as the enormous risk of the assembly to descend into violence. Chan further noted that the assembly on June , , which had drawn more than , people, had disrupted traffic and caused massive public disorder. This was opposite to what the defendants called minimal public inconvenience. The police objected to the assembly due to concerns over public health and the need to maintain social distance during the pandemic. In addition, Chan noted that Wongs repeated offenses to participate in unauthorized assemblies showed that the previous rulings did not serve as a deterrent. Wong was sentenced in April to four months behind bars for his role in an illegal assembly on Oct , , and faced a charge of using masked objects in that assembly. He has also received a .month jail term last year for inciting, organizing and knowingly joining in an illegal assembly on June , . Wongs month sentence, which he received on Thursday, will be served separately from those previously handed down. Last Friday, the defendants pleaded guilty to knowingly participating in an unauthorized assembly. Twentysix opposition figures were involved. Two of them, Nathan Law Kwunchung and Sunny Cheung Kwanyang, have fled Hong Kong. Hong Kong media tycoon Jimmy Lai Cheeying is among the remaining  defendants who will attend a hearing scheduled for June . Lai was jailed last month for knowingly organizing and taking part in two illegal assemblies in August . Wong, Shum and Yuen are also awaiting trials on charges of subversion under the national security law for their roles in a socalled primary election for the Legislative Council in July .