Outbreak in Thailand draws wide concern as new variant hampers pandemic control
2021/5/6 17:12
People from Klong Toey community wait to get a coronavirus disease COVID test, in Bangkok, Thailand, May , .  Despite Thailands effective response during the beginning of the pandemic, the latest outbreak that infected over , people since April has shown how immense a challenge it is to deal with COVID, experts say. From a public health point of view, Thailand does not look like its anywhere near the resolution of this current wave, said Jeremy Lim, associate professor at the Saw Swee Hock School of Public Health at the National University of Singapore. We are not even sure that it has reached the peak of the socalled epidemiology curve, Lim said. The latest outbreak reflects how challenging it is to deal with COVID. Thailand confirmed , new COVID cases on May , bringing the total tally to ,, according to the countrys Center for COVID Situation Administration. The death toll has reached , after a new daily record of  deaths was reported on May . Since Thailand detected on April  the first domestic transmission of B... C a highly contagious variant of the SARSCoV virus first identified in Britain C over , cases have been reported in the latest outbreak. The country only had about , total cases in early December. Lim Wee Kiat, associate director of the Centre for Management Practice, Singapore Management University, said Thailands response to COVID in early , which included the deployment of its health volunteer corps, has been remarkable. Its current predicament precisely demonstrates how challenging it is to balance the hammer and dance routine, said Lim Wee Kiat. The Thai government, he said, is keenly aware of the pressing issues, such as hospital bed shortage, and it is clear to officials that it is unpalatable to return to the national lockdown given that the pandemic has been around for more than a year. He said this is also why the government chose to use precision strikes to ringfence areas with high infection rates rather than carpet bombing. On May , Thailand began to implement tighter and stricter disease control measures to prevent the spread of the COVID. Masks are required in all public places while venues like pubs and karaoke bars are closed. Six provinces C namely Bangkok, Chonburi, Chiang Mai, Nonthaburi, Pathum Thani, and Samut Prakan C were categorized as maximum and strict controlled areas. The number of maximum controlled areas also rose from  to  provinces. Another  provinces were selected as controlled areas. As of May  morning,  provinces in Thailand have prohibited people from leaving their residences for limited hours during nighttime. According to the new restrictions, the quarantine period for all travelers who wish to enter Thailand has been extended to  days, regardless of their country of origin or vaccination status. The Southeast Asian nation previously shortened the quarantine periods for vaccinated arrivals to just seven to  days. Lim Wee Kiat said Thailand also needs to revise its vaccination strategy. The government should work more closely with the private and people sectors to catalyze its vaccination schedule, he said. Thailand started its vaccination rollout on Feb . As of May , the country has administered . million COVID vaccine doses, using imported vaccines from Chinas Sinovac and British pharmaceutical company AstraZeneca. According to statistics from online publication Our World in Data, the vaccination rate in Thailand is about . percent, far behind its Southeast Asian neighbors such as Singapore . percent, Cambodia . percent and Indonesia . percent. The Thai government has said that it will work closely with the private sector to speed up its COVID vaccination program and achieve its goal of inoculating  million people by the end of this year. Key business groups such as the Federation of Thai Industries said it has started negotiations with vaccine manufacturers including Sinovac, the United States Moderna and Russias Sputnik, according to local media Bangkok Post. The recent outbreak has also cast a shadow on Thailands economic recovery. In its latest Asian Development Outlook published on April , the Asian Development Bank lowered its  GDP forecast for Thailand to  percent from its December projection of  percent. With the risk of a protracted COVID wave continuing in the weeks ahead, there is a significant downside risk that restrictive lockdown measures will hit domestic economic activity and dampen GDP growth, said Rajiv Biswas, AsiaPacific chief economist at global consultancy IHS Markit. Retail trade will be among the key sectors to be affected, Biswas said. The Thai government can use targeted fiscal stimulus measures to help lowincome households and badly impacted small businesses in sectors such as tourism to help them through the pandemic crisis, Biswas said. In addition, Biswas said the twoweek quarantine means that the prospects of international tourism restarting anytime soon have again been delayed indefinitely. Due to the importance of international tourism for the Thai economy, this is a key negative factor for the nearterm economic outlook, he said. Neighboring country Laos initiated a day lockdown of its capital Vientiane on April  after identifying a cluster infection linked to Thailand. The landlocked country had about  cases by April  but as of May , the number has skyrocketed to , according to data by Worldometer, a website which compiles global statistics of COVID. No country will be safe until every country is safe, especially here in Southeast Asia, where our countries are all geographically very close to each other, said Lim from NUS, who hopes a regional center for disease control can be formed for a more organized health response across the Association of Southeast Asian Nations, a regional bloc that includes Thailand. Regarding the Thai governments announced plans to reopen the southern island of Phuket to vaccinated tourists from July , Lim said it is too early to talk about reopening borders. But if we dont prepare Phuket to open  then we will never be able to get anything started, he said. We hope for the best and plan for the worst.