Attacks on Asians drive hatecrime surge in NY
2021/5/6 0:00
Hate crimes in New York City have jumped this year, propelled by a dramatic increase in incidents against Asian Americans and scores of crimes against Jews, according to the New York Police Department. The NYPD released numbers on Monday showing that  hate crimes had occurred for the year to Sunday, a surge of  percent from the  reported for the same period in , The Wall Street Journal reported. Asians were targeted in  hate crimes, the highest number of such incidents. There were  hate crimes against Asian Americans during the same period last year, the NYPDs Hate Crime Task Force said. The number of hate crimes targeting Jewish people was the secondhighest behind that for antiAsian incidents, with  reported in , by Sunday, down from  such crimes in . During the four months,  arrests were made, up  percent from the  made in the same period last year, according to the newspaper. Police have said that the true number of hate crimes in the city is probably higher because many such crimes go unreported. The latest incident to reach the Hate Crime Task Force is a woman who on Sunday night demanded that two Asian women remove their face masks before attacking one of them with a hammer. Police said that they are searching for the woman, who carried out the attack near Times Square. She was talking to herself. I thought maybe she was drunk or something, so we just wanted to pass her quickly, the yearold victim, who was identified only as Theresa, told ABCTV. When I passed her, suddenly I felt my head get hit by something. Theresa was rushed to a hospital, where she needed stitches for a gash to her forehead and another cut on her head, according to ABC.The other woman, , didnt appear to suffer any injuries, according to authorities. My mom actually told me Please be careful, theres a lot of Asian crime happening in America, Theresa said. The recent graduate of Manhattans Fashion Institute of Technology said she plans to go back to Taiwan now. If the right job comes along, she said, she will move back to New York when it is safer. Despicable act New York Governor Andrew Cuomo said in a statement on Tuesday I am disgusted by this violent attack in Midtown Manhattan, the latest seemingly senseless and despicable hate crime against Asian Americans in this state. We will do everything in our power to protect those who are vulnerable to these attacks and to hold cowardly perpetrators accountable to the full extent of the law. Hundreds of New Yorkers gathered on Sunday for a rally in the predominantly Asian district of Flushing, in the borough of Queens, denouncing the wave of hate crimes against Asian Americans. If you hate, get the hell out of here because you dont deserve to live in New York City, Mayor Bill de Blasio said at the rally. minluzhangchinadailyusa.com