China donates more medical supplies to Liberia
2021/5/5 20:56
China has donated a fourth batch of antipandemic materials to the government of Liberia. At the handover ceremony on Tuesday for the donated materials, Chinese Ambassador to Liberia Ren Yisheng expressed delight in the presence of President George M. Weah. Ren said that the medical supplies include  ventilators,  oxygen concentrators together with , full face masks and  tubing parts, , medical protective face masks, and  infrared thermometers. The supplies, according to Ren, have followed the most stringent Chinese manufacturing standards, and are expected to be distributed to all public hospitals and private medical institutions across Liberia. China and Liberia are good brothers, good friends and good partners, and have always helped and supported each other, Ren added. He recalled that China has always played the humanitarian role, by being the first among global powers to offer assistance to Liberia and its people in the fight against the COVID pandemic as during the fight against Ebola in . China is also, through international humanitarian organizations and institutions such as UNICEF and WFP, delivering food and nutrition programs in Liberia, Ren said. He pointed out that the two countries friendly cooperative relations have been deepened and strengthened. Our cooperation, based on the principles of equality, consultation, mutual respect and winwin outcomes, is in line with the Belt and Road Initiative as advocated by President Xi and the Propoor Agenda for Prosperity and Development PAPD as advocated by President Weah, and serves the broad interests of our two countries and peoples, he said. The Chinese ambassador assured President Weah that the Chinese side is ready to double their efforts to further promote allaround cooperation with Liberia in all areas such as infrastructure, particularly roads, telecommunication and electricity, as well as agriculture, mining, public health and peopletopeople exchanges. Liberias President Weah thanked China in brief remarks. China has always been a true friend to Liberia, and has always identified with us during difficult times, he said. Weah noted that China has been one of Liberias most outstanding partners, and has helped to solve the countrys development challenges. Health Minister Wilhemina Jallah assured Ambassador Ren that the items will be used for the intended purposes. Jallah said the supplies will greatly help in the containment of the COVID pandemic.