New York state to lift capacity limits on May
2021/5/5 0:00
New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio last week announced that the Big Apple will fully reopen by July , but Governor Andrew Cuomo on Monday went more than a month better, setting the date as May  for the city and the rest of the state to end virtually all capacity restrictions put in place due to the coronavirus pandemic. The neighboring states of New Jersey and Connecticut also are making similarthough not identicalmoves on May . New Jersey Governor Phil Murphy and Connecticut Governor Ned Lamont joined Cuomo as they revealed plans in a joint regional announcement on Monday. Cuomos announcement came less than a week after de Blasios announcement that the city will fully reopen by July , which Cuomo called irresponsible for giving a full reopening date, while also offering his own vague timeline I dont want to wait that long. I think if we do what we have to do, we can be reopened earlier. What the mayor didnt do was to explain that Cuomo has the ultimate say over capacity restrictions in the state. Cuomos announcement will end capacity restrictions at restaurants, offices, museums, retail stores, bars, gyms, fitness centers, amusement parks, recreational venues, hair salons, offices and live entertainment venues. The governor also announced that the New York City subway will resume hour service starting on May . Cuomo said a steady decline in the positive rate of coronavirus tests and hospitalizations across the state showed it was time to begin the reopening process. The percentage of New Yorkers testing positive for the coronavirus dropped  percent over the last month, and hospitalizations for COVID decreased by  percent during the same period, he said at a news conference. New Yorkers have made tremendous progress, Cuomo said. Its time to readjust the decision made on the science and on the data. While capacity limits will be lifted in most places in the city and state, Cuomo said establishments must observe a foot social distancing recommendation set by the United States Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. The restriction would be lifted for events where all individuals who attend provide proof of full vaccination or a recent negative coronavirus test, he said. Restaurants may have tables closer than  feet if they have installed partitions or barriers, officials said. The lifting of the states capacity restrictions is a first step toward the reopening of Broadway theaters after their shutdown on March , , when Cuomo instituted the statewide limits. Cuomo acknowledged that various industries, including Broadway, may make their own economic decisions about when to reopen. Broadway producers have insisted that social distance requirements are a nonstarter for the industry because the cost of staging a production demands fullcapacity availability. The governor indicated that live venues could work around stillexisting social distance requirements by requiring of patrons proof of vaccination or a negative coronavirus test upon entry. Whether theater owners and producers will institute a vaccineonly policy is unclear. The Broadway League, as well as various other industry insiders, have indicated that a September reopening of some shows is likely. New Yorks move comes just over a year after businesses across the state closed and others limited capacity to combat one of the countrys worst coronavirus outbreaks. It follows updated guidance released by the CDC last week, which said people dont need to wear masks outdoors where social distancing is possible. Cuomo said, however, that a  percent capacity limit will remain for large outdoor stadiums. New York is working with New Jersey and Connecticut on protocols that would allow for increased capacity at stadiums based on attendees being vaccinated or tested for the coronavirus, the governor said Monday. The state had already announced that outdoor curfews at restaurants and bars will be lifted on May , and indoor curfews will be removed on May . Agencies contributed to this story. aihepingchinadailyusa.com