China, Pakistan celebrate  years of relations
2021/5/4 11:29
A medical worker prepares a dose of COVID vaccine at a hospital on the outskirts of Islamabad, capital of Pakistan, Feb , .  In March, the Iron Brothers Islamic Republic of Pakistan and the Peoples Republic of China kicked off the th anniversary of their diplomatic ties. This year will be an opportunity to survey the journey of diplomatic relations between two countries, which was established in the year of . Both countries began their celebrations at a virtual ceremony in Islamabad and Beijing and have a plan to celebrate through May . Since ancient times, Pakistan and China have historical and geographical links. Ancient Chinas abbots as well as penitents traveled to the illustrious Buddhist academies of Pakistan with the aim to learn the customs, norms, values and teachings of Buddhism. In the contemporary historical milieu, May  was a significant moment in the modern history of Pakistan and as well as China. Over these  years, the bilateral relations have been named AllWeather Friendship, IronBrothers, Shadow in Sunlit friendship and Strategic Partners. Additionally, the friendship between Pakistan and China has also been marked with the terms Higher than the Himalayas and deeper than Oceans. The first interaction among the premiers of two nations was held at the eve of the Bandung Conference in , when Pakistans Prime Minister M. Ali Bogra and Chinese Premier Zhou Enlai met. Pakistans Prime Minister H. S. Shuharwardi then visited China, and Zhou Enlai subsequently made a reciprocal visit. The first agreement, which is commonly known as the Border agreement, was signed between the two countries in , provoking more deep trust, love and care among the two countries. Soon after this agreement, Pakistans first national flagcarrier Pakistan International Airlines began flights to the Peoples Republic of China in . In the early s, Pakistan played an imperative role in shifting relations between China and the US from estrangement to rapprochement. Owing to the complex climate of the Cold War, Pakistan supported China taking its rightful seat in the United Nations. Reciprocally, apart from Chinese support to Pakistan in its time of need and during the IndiaPakistan military standoff in  and , China also condemned India when it performed a nuclear test and exacerbated tensions in the region. In the context of economics and trade, Pakistan supports Chinas Belt and Road Initiative, which heightens economic integration and winwin comprehensive global growth. Under the umbrella of the BRI, the ChinaPakistan Economic Corridor was announced in , a demonstrative joint venture between the two countries accelerating indepth economic and regional partnerships. Under CPEC, Pakistans infrastructure, industry, economic zones, agriculture, social as well as economic domains will flourish. Additionally, China fortifies Pakistans defense. Owing to the evolving IndiaUS strategic partnership since  and US sales of arms to India, China supports Pakistan to deal with these provocations. Most recently, China has provided four Type frigates to Pakistan and also given support in the development of combat tanks, as well as the AlKhalid and JFThunder fighter jets. In the hazardous times of the COVID pandemic, China has given support to countries all over the world, Pakistan in particular. The availability of masks and vaccines for Pakistan was a top priority of China. Moreover, in the time of COVID, Pakistan stood with China and rejected spurious allegations from the West about the virus origin. Showing continuing trustworthy relations, approximately , Pakistani students are studying in China at different levels. In the time of the COVID pandemic, the Chinese government provided great support and care for Pakistani students. Summarily, the ChinaPakistan relations symbolize peace, harmony, synchronization of winwin benefits and stability of the region. Naseem Baloch is a masters student at the School of Education at Central China Normal University in Wuhan.