Casual workers clamor for better insurance coverage
2021/5/1 7:54
Deliveryman Li Jie drives an electric tricycle in Beijing in December.  Many are vulnerable because of a lack of legal status A food deliveryman suffered a fractured leg after being knocked down by an SUV last month in Bozhou, Anhui province. A domestic worker fell from a chair and broke her coccyx in Beijing last year. A driver with a carhailing service died from overwork in Nanjing, Jiangsu province, in . Without work injury insurance, a crucial part of Chinas job securities package that provides compensation for workplace injuries or death and also pays funeral costs, casual workers who suffer injuries face an uphill struggle to claim compensation from clients or their de facto employers the internetbased platforms or brickandmortar agencies for whom they work. I have heard of numerous cases of drivers dying suddenly as a result of exhaustion, said Zhao, an employee of a carhailing company, who only gave his surname, as he inched forward in rushhour traffic on a recent workday. In many cases, the platforms offer the families a sum of money due to public relations concerns, but thats not legal protection. The yearold and his peers want to be covered by governmentbacked work injury insurance, which provides generous payments for workinduced problems. The sum is equivalent to  times the average national annual income in urban areas, which was about , yuan , last year, according to the National Bureau of Statistics. The lackluster insurance coverage attracted the attention of Premier Li Keqiang during the annual gathering of the nations highest legislative body in March. He pledged to introduce a social security subsidy mechanism to provide basic protection for occupational injuries among the growing number of casual workers. Some people work several jobs and its very hard, Li told a news conference in Beijing. This the improved mechanism will facilitate development of a more healthy and stable flexible employment market. A taxi driver collects free face masks at a public disinfection point in Nanjing, Jiangsu province, in January. Photo by Wang Luxianfor China Daily Blind spot Central government figures show that China has about  million casual workers, accounting for roughly one in every five employees. Many dont have a traditional manager or employer as outlined by Chinas labor law, which came into force in  and was last revised  years ago. Last year, the courts heard about  cases involving workrelated injuries to or deaths of casual workers, compared with just  in , China Judgements Online, a database of court verdicts said. However, in most cases the courts do not recognize labor or service tiestwo major labor relations that are crucial benchmarks for deciding an employers liability to pay compensationbetween casual employees and job matchmaking platforms and agencies. The rise in the number of such disputes in recent years has shone a light on the porous legal protections for casual workers, whose services have underpinned the rapid expansion of the countrys gig economy in the shadow of the COVID epidemic. Last year, more than  million people offered casual services via the gig economy, according to an estimate by the State Information Center, an advisory body affiliated with the National Development and Reform Commission, the nations top economic planner. In , the number was  million. Moreover, the epidemicinduced economic downturn has boosted employers appetites for lessformal employment terms to reduce labor costs, making the closure of legal loopholes a more pressing issue, experts said. A report last year by Renmin University of China said the proportion of Chinese companies that used informal workers had risen by  percent yearonyear to more than  percent. Almost  percent of those businesses said they will retain or expand the practice. Workers discuss how to improve their crochet skills in Chengdu, Sichuan province, in February. Photo by Shen BohanXinhua Evolution The concept of informal employment emerged in the s amid sweeping reforms targeting Stateowned enterprises, which signaled an end to the countrys decadeslong planned economy and led to a spike in the number of workers being laid off. Those made redundant, usually people approaching retirement age, were encouraged to take casual jobs, such as domestic work, or to become selfemployed small business owners. The reforms gave rise to the labor dispatch practice, a new form of employment relations that allows employers to hire services from agencies to reduce labor costs. The recent liftoff of the gig economy and appbased business models have further revolutionized labor relations. Workers need only register with an online platform and verify their identity to start offering services as drivers and delivery personnel. They can also quit such jobs without fear of restrictions or penalties. This flexibility was embraced by those who were made redundant or faced pay cuts at the height of the COVID outbreak as a makeshift way of staying afloat financially. Such jobs also offer more alternatives for rural migrants seeking better pay in cities, especially as previous generations of migrant workers manned assembly lines in coastal provinces, laid bricks on the edges of expanding cities or toiled in coal mines. That flexibility has come at a cost, though. For a long time, there have been no rules to address the labor issues arising from the new forms of employment, such as internetbased jobs, said Li Na, a labor law researcher at the China University of Labor Relations. She added that the practice has created labor rights concerns and impeded the healthy development of Chinas rapid internetbased growth in employment opportunities. Unlike fulltime employees in factories or businesses, casual workers do not sign employment contracts with the platforms or agencies. That leaves them without legal protection with regard to a minimum wage, working hours and workplace safety requirements. The lack of formal contracts also infringes on job benefits. The financially vulnerable workers have no employer to share the cost of social security contributions, which usually come as part of a pricy package that contains the pension fund, health and unemployment insurance and access to a subsidized mortgage rate. The package can cost at least , yuan a year. The lack of legal representation has affected peoples willingness to buy such packages without help. Lu Quan, secretarygeneral of the China Association of Social Security, said the twotrack urbanrural hukou, or household registration system, also stops many outoftowners from buying work injury or unemployment insurance in their city of employment, a mismatch common among migrant workers. These types of insurance are crucial for this group, he said. Women learn how to make preserved flowers at a factory in Shijiazhuang, Hebei province, to help them find jobs. Photo by Chen QibaoXinhua Legal moves The Peoples Republic of China first celebrated International Workers Day  years ago. Since then, the country has made huge progress in protecting womens labor rights, cracking down on child labor and bolstering workplace safety. In landmark moves, the labor law was introduced in  and the labor contract law came into force in , limiting overtime, setting a minimum wage and requiring that employees who are made redundant are given one months pay for each year they have worked. However, Li, the labor law researcher, said the flexibility of casual workers in terms of work time, location, production means and tools is straining the application of the labor law in the fastevolving employment landscape. In , authorities started to overhaul labor rules that were made with traditional jobs in mind after members of the National Committee of the Chinese Peoples Political Consultative Conference, the countrys top advisory body, called attention to the lack of work injury insurance coverage among casual employees. Their proposals led the Ministry of Human Resources to revise the nations Work Injury Insurance Regulation the following year, extending eligibility from traditional employees to tens of millions of casual workers. Despite those efforts,  percent of urban workers are not covered by the insurance, and most of them are casual workers, according to Xinhua News Agency. Premier Lis remarks have raised hopes of extending the work injury subsidy to the increasingly younger workers who are supercharging the burgeoning food delivery and carhailing services. That helps make insurance more affordable, both for individual workers and their de facto employers. So far, subsidy programs have mainly targeted the  group, casual workers in their s and s. The programs offer about , yuan reimbursement of their annual social security contributions over a period of five years. After five years working as a driver full time, Zhao, from the central province of Henan, said he is worried about developing uremia and other kidney problems as a result of his packed schedule and local conditions. Drivers often have to forgo toilet breaks because of a lack of parking space, especially free parking space, he said. Sun Fengyi contributed to this story. Residents collect silkworm cocoons in Qunyi village in Haian, Jiangsu province, to aid their search for work. Photo by Zhai Huiyongfor China Daily