Xi extends sympathies, support to Indias Modi
2021/5/1 7:09
A patient suffering from the coronavirus disease is seen inside the emergency ward at Holy Family hospital in New Delhi, India, April , .  President Xi Jinping sent a message of condolence on Friday to Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi as India battles a devastating surge in COVID cases. In his message, Xi said that he is keenly concerned about the recent pandemic situation in the country and extended his sincere sympathies to the Indian government and people on behalf of the Chinese government and people as well as in his own name. Saying that humankind is a community with a shared future, Xi called for solidarity and cooperation from all countries around the world in order to overcome the pandemic. Xi said that China stands ready to strengthen antipandemic cooperation with India and to provide support and assistance to the country. The president said that he believes the Indian people will be able to overcome the virus under the leadership of the Indian government. Indias Health Ministry reported , new infections on Fridaya global recordand , deaths in the past  hours, bringing the countrys confirmed cases to more than . million. Indias death toll has passed ,. Also on Friday, Foreign Ministry spokesman Wang Wenbin said that more supplies will be delivered to India in the coming days as Chinese companies are working around the clock to produce antiepidemic materials and medical equipment. China has been closely following the situation in India, Wang said at a regular news briefing in Beijing, adding that a lot of donations and procurement have come through nongovernmental channels. He said that all sectors of society in China, Chinas Red Cross and regional and subnational organizations and companies in China have leapt into action to collect urgently needed supplies that will be sent to the Indian people as quickly as possible. Since April, China has supplied more than , ventilators, , oxygen generators, over . million masks and about , metric tons of medicines to India, according to Chinese Ambassador to India Sun Weidong, who cited statistics from Chinas General Administration of Customs.