Infections top m as breakthrough cases hit US
2021/5/1 7:05
A woman walks without a protective face mask, after the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention CDC announced new guidelines regarding outdoor mask wearing and vaccinations during the outbreak of the coronavirus disease COVID in Manhattan, New York City, US, April , . Global COVID cases have topped  million on Friday as the pandemic accelerated. The exact number stood at ,, as of early Friday. More than . million people have died of the disease, according to a tally kept by Johns Hopkins University. It was the latest grim milestone since the novel coronavirus outbreak began, leaving billions more under crippling lockdowns and ravaging the worlds economy. The countries with the highest total number of cases are the United States, India and Brazil. In the US, thousands of people who have received a COVID vaccine have become infected with the coronavirus afterward in what are being called breakthrough cases. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, or CDC, reports that there have been , such cases in  states among the  million people who had been fully vaccinated as of April . The CDC said while COVID vaccines authorized for use in the United States offer protection against most SARSCoV, some variants can cause breakthrough cases. Vaccine breakthrough cases are expected. COVID vaccines are effective and are a critical tool to bring the pandemic under control, the agency said. However, no vaccines are  percent effective at preventing illness. CDC figures showed , or  percent of the breakthrough cases were women, , or  percent of breakthrough cases were in people aged  or older. At least , or  percent had asymptomatic infections,  or  percent were hospitalized, and  or  percent died. Ashley Allen, , of Brooklyn, New York, was surprised when she tested positive for coronavirus three weeks after receiving the Johnson  Johnson vaccine on March . Allen said that after getting vaccinated she continued to take precautions. But she was definitely very confused when she tested positive, she said in a local television interview. The CDC has created a database to monitor the breakthrough cases sent to them from state health departments nationwide. They identify clusters, demographics, geographic location, time since vaccination, vaccine type or lot number, and SARSCoV lineage. None of the vaccines has reported  percent effectiveness. But the CDC said the jabs do offer protection three weeks after inoculation. William Schaffner, professor of preventive medicine and infectious diseases at Vanderbilt University Medical Center in Nashville, Tennessee, said We dont know for how long even a pretty good vaccine will provide protection for how many. A study from the University of California, San Francisco, that followed more than , healthcare workers showed an infection rate after vaccination of approximately  percent. The country has reported ,, confirmed cases and , deaths as of early Friday. With a mass vaccination program, New York is preparing for a full reopening. New York City, which was the epicenter in the US, will fully reopen for business on July , Mayor Bill de Blasio said on Thursday. The first shutdown of the city began in March . Ai Heping in New York and agencies contributed to this story.