Bangladesh approves Chinas Sinopharm coronavirus vaccine
2021/4/30 13:56
People wearing face masks are seen during a nationwide lockdown amid a recent surge in COVID cases in Dhaka, Bangladesh, April , .  DHAKA  Bangladeshs drug regulator has authorized the emergency use of Chinas Sinopharm COVID vaccine. Major General Mahbubur Rahman, director general of Bangladeshs Directorate General of Drug Administration, made the announcement at a press conference Thursday in the capital Dhaka. Weve issued emergency use approval for the Chinesemade jab. Mahbubur Rahman further said hopefully within . weeks, Bangladesh will receive a batch of Sinopharm vaccine as a gift. The Bangladeshi government on Wednesday gave the green light to a proposal of producing Chinese and Russian COVID vaccines in the country. Bangladeshs Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs approved the proposal to produce the vaccines  Chinas Sinopharm and Russias Sputnik V. The countrys drug regulator had earlier cleared the emergency use of Russias Sputnik V vaccine. Shahida Akhter, a senior Cabinet Division official, said Wednesday that several leading Bangladeshi pharmaceutical firms in collaboration with the Chinese and Russian companies will produce the vaccines. A law enforcer checks movement passes in Dhaka, Bangladesh, on April , .  The decisions came days after Dhaka suspended the first dosing of the OxfordAstraZeneca vaccine on a supply crunch. Amid uncertainty over the timely arrival of the next COVID vaccine shipment from India, the Bangladeshi government halted administering the first dose of the AstraZeneca vaccine across the country from Monday. Nearly six million people have so far received the first dose of the vaccine in Bangladesh. Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina inaugurated the countrys COVID vaccination drive on Jan.  to rein in the pandemic that has so far spread to nearly every Bangladeshi district. To limit the second wave of the pandemic, Bangladesh on Wednesday extended the ongoing lockdown again by one week to May .