Thousands catch coronavirus postvaccination
2021/4/30 10:23
Nurse Practitioner Kim Sonderland administers a Moderna COVID vaccine to a tribal resident of Eagle, Alaska, US, March , .  Thousands of people who have received a COVID vaccine in the US have become infected with the coronavirus afterward in what are being called breakthrough cases. The Centers for DU CDC reports that there have been , such cases in  states among the  million people who had been fully vaccinated as of April . The CDC said that while COVID vaccines authorized for use in the United States offer protection against most SARSCoV, some variants can cause breakthrough cases. Vaccine breakthrough cases are expected. COVID vaccines are effective and are a critical tool to bring the pandemic under control, the agency said. However, no vaccines are  percent effective at preventing illness. There will be a small percentage of people who are fully vaccinated who still get sick, are hospitalized or die from COVID. CDC figures showed that , or  percent of the breakthrough cases were women, and , or  percent of breakthrough cases were in people age  or older. At least , or  percent had asymptomatic infections  or  percent were hospitalized and  or  percent died. Ashley Allen, , of Brooklyn, New York, was surprised when she tested positive for the coronavirus three weeks after receiving the Johnson  Johnson vaccine on March . Allen said that after getting vaccinated she continued to take precautions, such as wearing a mask and washing her hands. But she was definitely very confused when she tested positive, she said in a local television interview. The CDC has created a database to monitor the breakthrough cases sent to them from state health departments nationwide. They identify clusters, demographics, geographic location, time since vaccination, vaccine type or lot number, and SARSCoV lineage. Two of the vaccines  Pfizer and BioNTechs, and Modernas  reported  percent efficacy. JJs oneshot vaccine had  percent effectiveness in clinical trials, the CDC said. None of the vaccines has reported  percent effectiveness. But the CDC said that the vaccines do offer protection three weeks after a person is inoculated. Dr William Schaffner, professor of preventive medicine and infectious diseases at Vanderbilt University Medical Center in Nashville, Tennessee, told China Daily We dont know for how long even a pretty good vaccine will provide protection for how many. A study from the University of California, San Francisco, that followed more than , healthcare workers showed an infection rate after vaccination of approximately  percent. Gillian Plummer, an active mother of two from Middletown, Connecticut, who runs marathons, was happy when she got vaccinated. But a month after she got the second dose of the Pfizer vaccine, she had what she thought was a sinus infection, but it turned out to be the coronavirus. Despite her experience, Plummer is still an advocate for vaccinations. She believes that the vaccine probably saved her from getting even more sick. If it werent for the vaccine, I think I would have been way sicker, Plummer said in an interview. There are concerns that reports of breakthrough cases could be used by antivaccination campaigners as another reason why people shouldnt get vaccinated. Jonathan Berman, a scientist, science educator and author of the book Antivaxxers, How to Challenge a Misinformed Movement, said most of the conspiracy theories springing up online and elsewhere about vaccines are fueled by fear. People are responding to some basic fears that almost everyone shares to a degree, Berman told China Daily. People fear governments and corporations making decisions about their health. They fear putting things they view as unnatural into their bodies. They fear living in a complex world that does not conform to intuitive answers that make sense to them.