New money for oldroad
2021/4/30 10:08
US President Joe Biden addresses to a joint session of Congress in the House chamber of the US Capitol in Washington, April , .  The th century American writer and humorist Mark Twain once declared The lack of money is the root of all evil. How true today, especially in Washington, DC. Money is at the root of the disagreement preventing the United States from making muchneeded investment in its roads, highways, bridges, hispeed rail, and many other capitalintensive engineering projects to facilitate the movement of people, trade, and data. US President Joe Biden has put forward his  trillionplus infrastructure investment package, but Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell opposes both the high price and the increased corporate taxes the president wants to finance it. And so, the waiting game continues. By comparison, the Chinaproposed Belt and Road Initiative is already speedily underway. With such momentum, as Chinas th century BC warrior and philosopher Sun Tzu knew so well, Opportunities multiply as they are seized. The US can employ a new method to pay for the greatest infrastructure revitalization program since World War II. It involves the around  trillion of profits US multinational corporations admit to having trapped abroad for the past few decades. The solution seems obvious. To paraphrase th century English poet Geoffrey Chaucer, its time to Bring home the bacon. Through this ironic foreign direct investment America will acquire the financial wherewithal to begin upgrading its decrepit infrastructure, while maintaining fiscal discipline meaning, not increasing the national debt or corporate taxes. Unfortunately, this method will mean bankers and fund managers across Europe, the UK, Asia, and beyond will hear a giant sucking sound as they lose deposits. Yet, this approach will also trigger a renaissance for Chinese, Indian, and European steel plants as well as shipping fleets sectors from which the US began retreating decades ago. With leadership from Senator McConnell, lawmakers could mint lasting political capital by legislating a zero federal tax rate on the repatriation of profits corporate America has stockpiled overseas. That would free those sums for redeployment into the US where needed most. This is all about US corporations investing to modernize their home countrys dismal road systems, ports, railroads, broadband networks, and drinking water systems so as to generate competitive advantage plus longterm value. Best of all, such projects will create decadesworth of much needed jobs. There is only one caveat US companies that elect this taxabsent patriotism must use their repatriated offshore profits to buy qualified infrastructure long bonds directly from states, municipalities, and Tribal lands. Crisp national standards can be established to facilitate those jurisdictions bond structuring, origination, and ratings. Also, project management bestpractices can hew to US Army Corps of Engineers standards and procedures so as to infuse selected projects with rigorous planning, design, engineering, procurement  contracting, construction, and maintenance. The long bonds can be serviced via alternative publicprivate techniques such as taxincrement financing income streams derived from taxing new construction activities and related services. In other words, familiar territory to state and local governments. Governors, mayors, and Tribal leaders should prepare for their anticipated windfalls by immediately identifying, assessing, and prioritizing infrastructure projects in their respective backyards. Some regressive jurisdictions elected officials may rail against such manna from heaven. Partisan ideology and welloiled political rhetoric have plagued the US for generations. Over the past half century that duality has enabled thinly masked special interests to reap shortterm private advantages and profits for client entities at the perennial public liability and expense of those respective ecosystems citizens. However, todays winds of change, if not recognized early and harnessed smartly by said officials, could leave in their wakes irredeemable modern Dust Bowls. On the sunny side of the dilapidated tracks, progressive governors and mayors who, fundamentally, operate in the Reality  Accountability business will instantly grasp this elegant solutions potential and establish infrastructure boards. Most states brim with retired professional talent. Jurisdictions found deficient should begin recruiting now. Resultsoriented officials can appoint to their boards a range of retired and evervigorous generals, privatesector project managers, engineers, CFOs, CFAs, CPAs, and lawyers, all itching for new challenges. Appointees will provide oversight for their respective states rebuilding priorities while performing two other crucial functions  Managing reverse auctions to ensure transparent, frothy, and costeffective markets for finance entities services  Maintaining an unblinking  weather eye on the institutional funds, private equity groups, and other service providers to which those boards have awarded shortterm mandates. In this manner US corporate leviathans can taxefficiently deploy their mountains of cash and enable America to Build Back Better. If Senator McConnell remains slow in seizing this onceinalifetime opportunity, President Biden can activate it tomorrow by Executive Order. Just like the Chinese today, Mark Twain in  understood the need for speed All good things arise unto them that wait  and dont die in the meantime. Jim Egan is the Founder and President of the exploration company Ferrumar. The opinions expressed here are those of the writer and do not represent the views of China Daily and China Daily website. If you have a specific expertise and would like to contribute to China Daily, please contact us at opinionchinadaily.com.cn , and commentchinadaily.com.cn