Secessionist is lucky that the security law is not retroactive
2021/4/29 7:04
Although the protests which erupted in  were ostensibly about the Hong Kong SAR governments fugitive surrender proposals, other forces were covertly at work. Once the insurgency got underway, it became increasingly clear that the protest movement was harboring people who wanted to divide China, and were prepared to adopt terrortype tactics to achieve this end. Their vociferous opposition to fugitive surrender was a smoke screen, and the destruction of the one country, two systems project was their priority, as this would harm China as a whole. On June , , when the insurrection got underway, a peaceful protest was followed by a violent assault by hundreds of rioters on the police officers who were guarding the Legislative Council Complex. They used improvised weaponry, including metal barriers, steel rods and bricks to assail the police cordon. Eight police officers were injured, including one who sustained serious eye injuries. In the days leading up to June , there were, moreover, internet appeals to throw petrol bombs, bricks and water bottles on the day itself, and the Hong Kong Independence Union, the police discovered, was one of the groupings uploading messages onto Facebook. It was, however, not until July , , that the extent to which the secessionists had infiltrated the protest movement became apparent. Once the rioters had smashed their way into the Legislative Council Complex, using a loaded cart as a battering ram, they set about trashing the premises, damaging furniture, defacing paintings and stealing equipment. The repair costs subsequently came to HK million . million. At this point, the ugly face of the protest movement exposed itself, and it was manifestly secessionist. On the walls, the fanatics scrawled Hong Kong is not China, and they gleefully brandished foreign and colonial era flags. They ostentatiously ripped up the Basic Law, the living embodiment of the one country, two systems policy, and sprayed the regional emblem with black paint, obliterating the words Peoples Republic of China. Their hatred of China was flaunted for all to see, although the lengths to which they were prepared to go in order to divide the country were not yet known. Within days, however, all became clear. On July , , the police, acting on information, conducted a raid on a rented studio in the Lung Shing Factory Building, Tsuen Wan. Inside, they found a kilogram of triacetone triperoxide TATP, which was the largest seizure of high explosives in over two decades, together with raw materials for manufacturing it. They also discovered  petrol bombs, banners proclaiming Hong Kong independence, assorted weaponry, and equipment used by protesters, including helmets, masks and body shields. At the scene, the police arrested Louis Lo Yatsun, aged , a member of the nowdisbanded Hong Kong National Front, who was found to have two manuals on explosives stored on his phone. The significance of this seizure was huge, as TATP is highly lethal and second only to militarygrade explosives. As the forces senior bomb disposal officer, Superintendent Alick Mcwhirter, explained at the time, a quantity of this size would cause exceptional amounts of damage when used. Indeed, TATP is the explosive of choice of international terrorism, and was used in the London bombings of , the Paris bombings of , and the Sri Lanka bombings of . That the protest movements armed wing possessed this explosive in abundance was proof positive not only of their willingness to create carnage on the streets, but also of their determination to threaten the countrys territorial integrity. This seizure, moreover, was not a oneoff as on Nov , , the police seized more TATP in powder form at Caritas Ma On Shan Secondary School, with students claiming it had been provided by a blackclad man in Mong Kok. With the enactment of the National Security Law for Hong Kong on June , , it became possible to prosecute secessionists, subversives and terrorists alike for these specific offenses. It is, however, not retroactive, and Lo was only charged with an offense of keeping explosives with intent to endanger life or property, which is punishable, under the Crimes Ordinance, with up to  years imprisonment Sect.. Upon arraignment, he pleaded guilty, and, as is customary, he thereby qualified for the onethird sentencing discount which is given in recognition of remorse, the saving of court time, and the avoidance of witness testimony. Having taken  years imprisonment as his starting point, Justice Andrew Chan Hingwai reduced Los sentence to  years, which was still the heaviest sentence imposed so far on anybody involved in the insurrection of . The judge told Lo that he had come close to declaring war on society, by creating terror among citizens. He said he must have been the mastermind of the operation, and that he had intended to subvert the government and seek the citys independence. Although Lo admitted keeping the TATP, not producing it, Chan ruled that he was no less culpable than the manufacturer. He said he would be failing in his duty if he did not impose a heavy, deterrent sentence such as this. In assessing Los culpability, Chan bracketed him with the late Yip Kaifoon, the socalled King of Thieves who, after a trial, was imprisoned for  years for the same offense in the s. Yip had been found in possession of almost two kilograms of trinitrotoluene TNT, although his motives, as a robber, would have been markedly different to Los, as a secessionist, and Chan described Los criminality as just as serious, if not more than Yips. On April , , when Yip challenged this sentence in the Court of Appeal, he was told by Justice Noel Power that the TNT had the capacity to inflict terrible damage to life and property in a crowded city such as this, and that a deterrent sentence was inevitable CACC , a precedent which Chan followed. Quite clearly, the judge was justified in taking  years imprisonment as his starting point, even though it is very close to the maximum of  years, and to emphasize the need for deterrence. In their own ways, albeit with different motives, Lo and Yip were planning to use explosives to create terror in Hong Kong, and multiple fatalities could well have resulted. Since, however, Lo, who is now , has already been in custody for almost two years, this will be deducted from the  years he has received, meaning he now has only about  years left to serve. If, moreover, he demonstrates what the Prison Rules call industry and good conduct during his incarceration, he will likely qualify for a remission of sentence of onethird Rule . If so, the effect would be to reduce his actual term to approximately six years and eight months imprisonment, for which he would undoubtedly count himself most fortunate, not least because he will still only be  by that time. If, however, Los offense had occurred after June , , the scenario would have been entirely different. He would, in all likelihood, have been prosecuted under the National Security Law not only for the offense of secession, but also for terrorism, and perhaps also subversion. In that eventuality, life imprisonment would, on conviction, have been a real possibility, and he could well have had to serve at least  years imprisonment, as the secessionists who are still at large hopefully appreciate. Lo should, therefore, thank his lucky stars that the new law is not retroactive. The views do not necessarily reflect those of China Daily.