Portugal to end state of emergency on April
2021/4/28 9:29
A man wearing a protective mask walks at a COVID vaccination centre in Seixal, Portugal, March , .  LISBON  Portuguese President Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa announced on Tuesday evening the end of the state of emergency on April , due to the easing of the COVID pandemic in the country. After hearing the experts and the parties in the Assembly of the Republic, all seen and considered, I decided not to renew the state of emergency, the head of state said in a speech to the nation. Decreed since Nov. , , this highest level of civil protection in the country, which allows restrictions on peoples rights and freedom, has been renewed  times to contain the spread of the novel coronavirus in Portugal. This decision weighed in the stabilization and even the decrease in the average number of deaths, inpatients in the infirmary and in intensive care, as well as the stabilization of the number of infected people, that is, the incidence of the pandemic, the president explained, noting that the pandemic remains under control even though a month has passed since Easter and the reopening of schools. However, he was quick to warn that we are not yet at a time free of COVID, or free of viruses, and the Portuguese still face the risk of new variants, which justifies a concern for all. Without a state of emergency, it is necessary to maintain or adopt all measures considered indispensable to prevent setbacks, returns to a past that we do not want, he said, adding the times ahead will be demanding. A report released Tuesday by Portugals DirectorateGeneral for Health showed that  percent of the population has already received the first dose of a COVID vaccine, while  percent has received both doses. As the world is struggling to contain the pandemic, vaccination is underway in an increasing number of countries with the alreadyauthorized coronavirus vaccines. Meanwhile, a total of  candidate vaccines are still being developed worldwide   of them in clinical trials  in countries including Germany, China, Russia, Britain, and the United States, according to information released by the World Health Organization Tuesday.