India sends army to help hospitals hit by COVID as countries promise aid
2021/4/27 4:14
Health workers wearing personal protective equipment PPE carry wood to prepare a funeral pyre for a coronavirus disease COVID victim during a mass cremation at a crematorium in New Delhi, India, April , .  NEW DELHI  India ordered its armed forces on Monday to help tackle surging new coronavirus infections, as nations including Britain, Germany and the United States pledged urgent medical aid to try to contain an emergency overwhelming the countrys hospitals. The situation in the worlds second most populous country is beyond heartbreaking, World Health Organization chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said, adding that WHO is sending extra staff and supplies including oxygen concentrator devices. In a meeting with Indias Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat said oxygen would be sent to hospitals from armed forces reserves and retired medical military personnel would join COVID health facilities. Where possible, military medical infrastructure will be made available to civilians, a government statement said, as new coronavirus infections hit a record peak for a fifth day. Air, Rail, Road  Sea Heaven  earth are being moved to overcome challenges thrown up by this wave of COVID, Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said on Twitter. Modi said he had spoken to U.S. President Joe Biden about the crisis, discussing supply chains for COVID vaccine raw materials and medicines. On Sunday Biden said his country would send medical supplies to India to help fight the pandemic. Modi has urged all citizens to get vaccinated and to exercise caution amid what he called a storm of infections, while hospitals and doctors in some northern states posted urgent notices saying they were unable to cope with the influx. In some of the worsthit cities, bodies were being burnt in makeshift facilities offering mass cremations. Lockdowns The southern state of Karnataka, home to the tech city of Bengaluru, ordered a day lockdown from Tuesday, joining the western industrial state of Maharashtra, where lockdowns run until May , although some states were also set to lift lockdown measures this week. The patchy curbs, complicated by local elections and mass festival gatherings, could prompt breakouts elsewhere, as infections rose by , in the last  hours, with crowded hospitals running out of oxygen supplies and beds. Currently the hospital is in begandborrow mode and it is an extreme crisis situation, said a spokesman for the Sir Ganga Ram Hospital in the capital, New Delhi. Following a fire at a hospital in the western diamond industry hub of Surat, five COVID patients died after being moved to other hospitals that lacked space in their intensive care units, a municipal official told Reuters. Television channel NDTV broadcast images of three health workers in the eastern state of Bihar pulling a body along the ground on its way to cremation, as stretchers ran short. If youve never been to a cremation, the smell of death never leaves you, Vipin Narang, a political science professor at Massachusetts Institute of Technology MIT in the United States, said on Twitter. My heart breaks for all my friends and family in Delhi and India going through this hell. In Russia, which expects  million doses of its Sputnik V vaccine to be made each month in India this summer, a Kremlin spokesman expressed concern over the situation. India, with a population of . billion, has an official tally of . million infections and , deaths, after , deaths overnight, health ministry data showed, although health experts say the figures probably run higher. The surge in infections hit oil prices amid worries about a fall in fuel demand in the worlds thirdbiggest oil importer. RALLY BACKLASH Several cities have ordered curfews, while police enforce social distancing and maskwearing. Politicians, especially Modi, have faced criticism for holding rallies during state election campaigns that draw thousands into packed stadiums. About . million voters were expected to cast ballots on Monday in the eastern state of West Bengal, in the final phases of a contest set to wrap up this week. Also voting in local elections was the most populous state of Uttar Pradesh, which has been reporting an average of , infections a day. Virologists said more infectious variants of the virus, including an Indian one, have fuelled the resurgence. The government told people to stay indoors and follow hygiene protocols. Vaccine demand has outpaced supply as the inoculation campaign widened this month, while companies struggle to boost output, partly because of a shortage of raw materials and a fire at a facility making the AstraZeneca dose. However, the federal government will not import vaccines itself but expects states and companies to do so instead, in a step aimed at backing domestic manufacturers, two government officials told Reuters. Neighbouring Bangladesh sealed its border with India for  days, though trade will continue. Air travel has been suspended since Bangladesh imposed a lockdown on April  to combat record infections and deaths. Reuters