COVID patients die at hospital in Indian capital due to oxygen shortage
2021/4/24 15:16
Workers use a bed to transport empty oxygen cylinders to a filling station at a COVID hospital, amidst the spread of the coronavirus disease COVID in Ahmedabad, India, April , .  NEW DELHI  Twenty COVID patients admitted at a hospital in the Indian capital died due to a shortage of oxygen, officials said Saturday. The deaths took place at a private health institute, Jaipur Golden Hospital, in Delhi. We had been allotted . metric tons of oxygen from the government. The supply was to reach us by  local time in the evening yesterday but it reached around midnight. By then,  patients had died, D K Baluja, medical director at Jaipur Golden Hospital, said. According to Baluja, these patients were critically ill and the deaths happened in the critical care area. Yes, the oxygen pressure was down for some time. They didnt die during that period exactly, it takes  minutes here and there, but the pressure was definitely low. They are generally on a very high load of oxygen so that is the reason, Baluja said. A normal patient would have coped. Those with high requirements couldnt cope with the deficiency. Baluja said at least  COVID patients admitted at the hospital were critical and in dire need of oxygen. The deaths have highlighted the worsening situation in the national capitals hospitals, which have been showing an urgent need for oxygen. A patient, wearing an oxygen mask, sits outside Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan Hospital LNJP, one of Indias largest facilities for coronavirus disease COVID patients only, in New Delhi, India, April , .  On Friday,  critical patients admitted at Sir Ganga Ram Hospital in New Delhi died under similar circumstances. India on Saturday reported historical highs of daily surge with , new cases and , deaths in the past  hours. Reports said this is the fastest rise in cases and deaths any country has suffered until now since the outbreak of the pandemic. India is presently witnessing a resurgence in COVID cases. In the wake of the ongoing COVID pandemic, hospitals across India have been reporting a shortage of oxygen supply and urged the federal government to replenish their stocks.