Latest on the COVID pandemic
2021/4/24 0:00
NEW DELHIDelhi hospitals issued desperate appeals for oxygen on Friday and  COVID patients died in a fire, as Indias healthcare system buckles under a new wave of infections. The surge in cases, blamed on a new virus variant and the government allowing super spreader public events to go ahead, saw another , new infections and , deaths reported in the past  hours. The latest in a string of fires at hospitals broke out on the outskirts of Mumbai early on Friday morning, a local official said. It has since been put out and the cause was being investigated. There were  patients inside when a fire broke out in the ICU of Vijay Vallabh Hospital, out of which  died and four have been shifted to other facilities, fire department official Morrison Khavari said. Indias healthcare system has long suffered from underfunding and the new COVID outbreak has seen critical shortages in oxygen, drugs and hospital beds, sparking desperate pleas for help. Earlier this week,  patients died at another hospital in the state of Maharashtra when the oxygen supply to their ventilators was disrupted by a leak. India has recorded more than  million infections this month, dashing hopes at the start of the year that it may have seen the worst of the pandemic. This mistaken belief led the government to lower its guard, allowing most activity to return almost to normal, including weddings and permitting spectators to pack cricket matches. The vast Kumbh Mela festival, one of the worlds biggest religious gatherings, held in the city of Haridwar between January and this week, attracted an estimated  million Hindu pilgrims, mostly without masks or social distancing. Several state elections have seen big campaign rallies including one by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in Kolkata that drew an estimated crowd of ,. Many parts of the country have now tightened restrictions, with the capital in lockdown and all nonessential services banned in Maharashtra. The northern state of Uttar Pradesh, home to  million people, goes into a shutdown this weekend. The United Arab Emirates on Thursday became the latest country to impose travel restrictions on India, suspending flights on one of the worlds busiest air corridors. Canada also halted flights from India as well as Pakistan, which has been badly hit too. Hospitals in New Delhi have been posting daily desperate appeals for oxygen to the state and national government.SOSless than an hours oxygen supplies at Max Smart Hospital  Max Hospital Saket, one of the biggest private hospital chains in India said on Twitter early on Friday morning.Over  patients admitted, need immediate assistance. India has now recorded more than  million cases and , deaths from the coronavirus. Agencies Via Xinhua Relatives mourn over the death of a woman who died from coronavirus outside a hospital in New Delhi on Thursday. ADNAN ABIDIREUTERS