critical patients die overnight at hospital in Indian capital, oxygen shortage, ineffective equipment reported
2021/4/23 14:47
A patient, wearing an oxygen mask, sits outside Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan Hospital, one of Indias largest facilities for coronavirus disease COVID patients only, in New Delhi, India, April , .  NEW DELHI  At least  critical patients admitted at Sir Ganga Ram Hospital in New Delhi have died in the last  hours, hospital authorities said Friday. The patients were reportedly on highflow oxygen. The hospital had flagged the shortage of oxygen, saying the supply was for only two more hours and that  more patients were at risk. Twentyfive sickest patients have died in last  hours. Oxygen will last another two hours. Ventilators and BiPAP ventilators for invasive treatment not working effectively. Resorting to manual ventilation in ICUs and Emergency. Major crisis likely. Lives of another  sickest patients at risk, need urgent intervention, local media quoted the hospitals Director in a statement as having said. The hospital, one of the biggest private ones in the national capital, said on Thursday morning that it was running dangerously low on oxygen. According to officials, there are over  COVID patients admitted in the hospital. The hospital chairman, however, said he did not link the deaths to oxygen shortage. I would not ascribe the deaths to oxygen shortage. A large number of patients are in serious condition in hospital. But we are facing severe oxygen shortage, chairman D S Rana was quoted by a local news channel as having said. We are doing manual ventilation to ensure patients survive. I am told oxygen has reached Delhis border, should be reaching shortly. Several hospitals have, over the past three days, flagged a crisis of oxygen supply, beds and medicines amid rising COVID cases in the capital. On Thursday evening, Delhi reported , new COVID cases in  hours and  deaths, the highest in a day. India on Friday reported the worlds biggestever daily surge with , new cases and , deaths, in the past  hours. Reports said this is the fastest rise in cases and deaths any country has suffered until now since the outbreak of the COVID pandemic. India is presently witnessing a resurgence in COVID cases. In wake of the ongoing COVID pandemic, hospitals across India have been reporting a shortage of oxygen supply and urged the federal government to replenish their stocks.