Indias daily COVID new cases, deaths both hit record high
2021/4/23 10:07
Police officers walk to guard during the Tokyo  Olympic torch relay amid the COVID outbreak in Seiyo, Ehime Prefecture, Japan, April , .  Ruling on venue capacity postponed as Japan struggles to contain coronavirus Japanese residents with tickets to the Tokyo Olympics may not know until weeks before the Games open if theyll be allowed to attend. Fans from abroad have already been barred, and on Wednesday organizing committee president Seiko Hashimoto said a decision on venue capacityor if there will be any fans at all, or just empty venuesmay not be made until June. She had previously promised that decision for this month. We are still studying the timing,Hashimoto said at a news conference in Tokyo after she and CEO Toshiro Muto finished an online, closeddoor briefing with the International Olympic Committee executive board in Switzerland. She said that June was an option. I guess we need a little more time to make a proper judgment, she added. Government minister Taro Kano, who is in charge of the vaccine rollout in Japan, hinted last week that empty venues seemed likely as COVID surges across Japan. Hashimotos backpedaling is typical of the everchanging planning as virus cases rise in Japan with Tokyos postponed Olympics set to open in three months in the midst of a pandemic. Hashimoto acknowledged the low public support in Japan for going ahead with the Olympics, particularly since less than  percent of the population has been vaccinated. Polls repeatedly show  percent are opposed to going ahead with the Games. In local municipalities the situations are rather dire, Hashimoto said. And in this context, Japanese citizens and residents have worries and concerns. For the safety and security of the Games, we must contain the spread of the virus as soon as possible. Many of the worries now center around the torch relay. On Thursday, organizers said that a policeman tested positive for COVID a day after his assignment last week at the relay. It was the first positive test connected to the relay since it began March  from northeastern Fukushima prefecture. Organizers said the policeman, who is in his s, was assigned to control traffic on the April  leg in southwestern Kagawa prefecture. Local health authorities are investigating. Officials say the policeman was wearing a mask and taking socialdistancing precautions and other measures. Legs last week were run in a city park in Osaka and taken off the public streets. Something similar is expected for some legs on May  on the southern island of Okinawa. The torch relay involves a total of , runners crisscrossing Japan until it arrives on July  at the opening ceremony in Tokyo. Organizers have warned that it may require further rerouting as conditions change. Osaka and Tokyo were expected to come under new emergency orders this week. Tokyo governor Yuriko Koike has said measures needed to be taken as soon as possible to stem the spread. And Hashimoto acknowledged they were likely to come quickly into force. Japan has attributed more than , deaths to COVID, good by global standards but poor by standards in Asia. If the coronavirus infection keeps getting worse, its no time to be holding the Olympics, Kotaro Nagasaki, the governor of Yamanashi prefecture, said this week. Yamanashi, the home of Mount Fuji, is located southwest of Tokyo. Some Tokyo test events are also being postponed or rescheduled. Many that are going forward are being held without athletessocalled operational eventsor with only Japanese athletes. An artistic swimming qualifying event in Tokyo that was first scheduled for earlier in the year, and then pushed back to early May, will now be held outside of Japan in June, swimming governing body FINA said in a statement. It had to be moved, partially because a FINA diving event is set to take place in Tokyo from May  at the new Olympic swimming venue. It is to be held without fans, and will feature divers from abroad. Olympic Minister Tamayo Marukawa last week said that all athletes might need to be tested daily during the Games. Japans Kyodo news agency on Tuesday reported that daily saliva tests for athletes are being planned, quoting officials with knowledge of the planning. Hashimoto confirmed that in principle, testing will be daily. Early plans had called for tests every four days. This change is likely to appear in the second edition of the Playbook, which is set to be published by the end of the month. So far, the guide has established vague rules for , Olympic and Paralympic athletes and tens of thousands of othersjudges, officials, media and broadcastersfor when they enter Japan. A final edition of the Playbook is set to be published in June. Japanese athletes have yet to be vaccinated, and officials repeatedly say there is no plan to do so. There would almost certainly be strong public opposition to any plan to push young athletes ahead of the elderly, medical workers and other vulnerable communities. Agencies Via Xinhua