patients killed in hospital fire in western India
2021/4/23 9:51
A man wearing a face mask takes a rest near a grey heron at the Sempione park, after Lombardy was downgraded from a red to an orange zone, loosening the coronavirus disease COVID restrictions including allowing nonessential shops to reopen, in Milan, Italy, April , .  Italy is set to give the green light to a restructuring plan that will include massive investments in highspeed rail, green energy, and the digitalization of government services. The plan, which the countrys new prime minister, Mario Draghi, hopes will breathe life into an economy in its deepest recession since World War II, will cost  billion euros  billion, the Financial Times reported on Thursday. The paper said it is expected to be officially unveiled next week. Draghi, who has been prime minister of a unity government since Feb  and who was president of the European Central Bank from  to , reportedly favors a radical restructuring of Italys economy to help it bounce back from economic devastation caused by the novel coronavirus pandemic. The Financial Times said the overhaul will draw heavily on the European Unions billioneuro pandemic recovery fund, which is largely aimed at redirecting money from wealthier lessimpacted EU nations toward hardhit Italy and Spain. The Telegraph newspaper said Italy suffered an . percent fall in GDP last year because of the pandemic, making it one of Europes major virus victims. Italys Confindustria business lobbying group said, without a recovery package, the economy was predicted to rebound slowly this year, and was not expected to be behaving normally until the end of . Draghi, who was governor of the Bank of Italy between  and , will seek his Cabinets approval of the plan in the coming days, and then ask for the backing of Parliament next week. The overhaul will reportedly be paid for through  billion euros of Italian budgetary resources and . billion euros of EU loans and grants, unnamed sources told the Financial Times. After several years of political division in Italy and months of economic freefall, Vincenzo Amendola, Italys minister for European affairs, recently told the New York Times newspaper that Draghi is exactly the sort of leader the nation and the EU now needs. The difference is that everybody, when Mario Draghi speaks, knows that he is not just pushing, boosting the Italian interest, Amendola said. You need stable leaders who bring confidence. If Draghis Cabinet supports his recovery plan, which the Bloomberg business news service said is detailed within a page report that includes  charts, he will require the support of lawmakers before taking it to the EU for its approval. The plan is also understood to call for more investment in the nations electricity grid, new hydrogen power projects, and public buildings being made energyefficient. Draghi is also understood to want to overhaul Italys outdated and slow legal system, and to be targeting a cutting of the red tape in place in some local regions that he believes is hindering growth.