Frances COVID situation improving, but risks remain high PM
2021/4/23 9:02
Four thousand people will attend the BRIT Awards at the indoor O Arena in London next month, thanks to a United Kingdom governmentled program that looks at how large events can return safely amid the COVID pandemic. Audience members will not be socially distanced or have to wear masks at the event on May , which will feature performances from breakout British star Griff and platinumselling English artist Dua Lipa. Attendees will, however, need to take a COVID polymerase chain reaction, or PCR, test at home before and after the show, and also produce a negative COVID lateral fl ow test taken on the day of the event, or the day before. The O arena is a closed venue with a normal capacity of around ,. Researchers will monitor attendees before and after the show, to gather data on the safety of restarting large indoor events in the UK, which banned mass gatherings in March  to help slow the spread of the novel coronavirus. The BRITs are always a big night in the music calendar, but this years awards will be particularly special, said Culture Secretary Oliver Dowden. They will reunite live audiences with the best of British talent for the first time in a year, while providing a vital opportunity to see how we can get large crowds back safely as soon as possible. Each year, the Rising Star Award is given out in the leadup to the BRITs, which is the highestprofile pop music awards show in the UK.This years recipient is yearold singersongwriter Sarah Faith Griffiths, who goes by the name Griff, and whose mother is Chinese. In my head, Im still screaming from the phone call when I found out, Griff said after her win. Its honestly such a miracle how on earth did we manage to win a BRIT and break through during a pandemic? The BRIT Awards is among several pilot events included in the governments Events Research Program, which started last week when  people attended an indoor comedy club in Liverpool. On Saturday, around  audience members went to the opening day of the World Snooker Championship at the Crucible in Sheffield, and the program is expanding crowd numbers as the competition continues. The program also includes major outdoor events, which will host larger crowds. The FA Cup semifinal had an audience of , last weekend, and , soccer fans will attend the League Cup Final on Sunday, with a further , expected at Wembley Stadium in London for the FA Cup final on May . These planned pilots mean we can gather the necessary evidence to inform our plans for future events, ensuring mass events can take place safely, said Health Secretary Matt Hancock.