Officer in Floyd killing convicted on all charges
2021/4/22 6:15
Former Minneapolis police officer Derek Chauvin listens as a jury finds him guilty of all charges in his trial for seconddegree murder, thirddegree murder and seconddegree manslaughter in the death of George Floyd with his defense attorney Eric Nelson in Minneapolis, Minnesota, US April ,  in a still image from video.  Former Minneapolis police officer Derek Chauvin has been found guilty on all three counts in the murder of George Floyd, an unarmed black man, by putting a knee on his neck for more than nine minutes. The  members of the jury  four African Americans, six white and two of mixed race reached a unanimous verdict after nearly  hours of deliberation over two days. Chauvin was charged with seconddegree unintentional murder, which can carry up to a year prison sentence thirddegree murder, which has a maximum year sentence and seconddegree manslaughter, up to a year sentence. Judge Peter A. Cahill read the verdict at  pm. Chauvin, wearing a gray suit and face mask, looked stunned as he listened to the verdict. He looked toward the jury in disbelief. An officer handcuffed him and led him out of the courtroom. The judge said that he will be sentenced in eight weeks. Ben Crump, the Floyd familys attorney said in a statement GUILTY! Painfully earned justice has finally arrived for George Floyds family. This verdict is a turning point in history and sends a clear message on the need for accountability of law enforcement. Justice for Black America is justice for all of America! Floyds death on May , caught on video camera, went viral after it showed Chauvin, who is white, kneeling on Floyds neck for nine minutes and  seconds. Chauvin appeared calm, with his hands in his pockets, sunglasses on his head as he knelt on Floyds neck. Floyd lay face down on the ground during the arrest over an alleged counterfeit  bill. Floyd pleaded for his life, repeatedly saying, I cant breathe. After the verdict was announced, crowds gathered outside the courthouse and at the location where Floyd died, many held Black Lives Matter signs and some chanted yes! Others held their fists in the air. Barriers have been placed near the citys courthouse. Some streets where there were protests last year are closed. Police precincts in Minneapolis have been cordoned off in case there is rioting. Philonise Floyd, the brother of George Floyd, was in the courtroom with the familys attorney Ben Crump while the verdict was read. Floyd told CNN For the rest of the country, this will be a historic decision, but for the family, it will be deeply personal. For us this is our heart that has been deeply affected. Several demonstrations took place recently against police brutality in New York, Portland, Oregon, North Carolina and in Chicago, where a yearold boy was fatally shot by police. Floyds death also sparked international condemnation with protests for Black Lives Matter erupting in  countries, including England, Hungary, France. More than , National Guard are patrolling Minneapolis and St. Pauls streets. Over , officers from the Hennepin County Sheriffs office, Minneapolis Police Department and other local agencies are on call. At least  police officers from the Minnesota State Patrol are on standby. We stand on the brink of a historic week in our state and in our country and certainly for the policing profession, said Colonel Matthew Langer, chief of the Minnesota State Patrol. We want peaceful assembly, Minneapolis Police Chief Medaria Arradondo said at a news conference. We want peaceful protest. We know that we have a city that is mourning. That theyre in grief. The last thing that we want to do is turn this thing into an enforcement situation. President Joe Biden was to address the nation after the verdict. Earlier on Tuesday, Biden weighed in on the Chauvin case during a news conference at the White House on Tuesday and said he was praying for a guilty verdict. Im praying the verdict is the right verdict, which is  I think its overwhelming, in my view. I wouldnt say that unless the jury was sequestered now, not hearing me say that.