US adds about  countries to its Do Not Travel advisory list
2021/4/22 1:18
FILE PHOTO Travelers wearing protective face masks to prevent the spread of the coronavirus disease COVID reclaim their luggage at the airport in Denver, Colorado, US, November , .  WASHINGTON  The US State Department has added about  countries this week to its Level Four Do Not Travel advisory list, putting the United Kingdom, Canada, France, Mexico, Germany and others on the list, citing a very high level of COVID. On Monday, the State Department said it would boost the number of countries receiving its highest advisory rating to about  of countries worldwide. Before Tuesday, the State Department listed  out of about  countries as Do Not Travel. The State Department now lists about  countries at Level Four. The State Department declined to say when it would complete the updates. The State Department said Monday the move does not imply a reassessment of current health situations in some countries, but rather reflects an adjustment in the State Departments Travel Advisory system to rely more on Centers for Disease Control and Preventions existing epidemiological assessments. Other countries in the Do Not Travel list include Finland, Egypt, Belgium, Turkey, Italy, Sweden, Switzerland, Spain. Some countries like China and Japan remain at Level  Reconsider Travel. Most Americans already had been prevented from traveling to much of Europe because of COVID restrictions. Washington has barred nearly all nonUS citizens who have recently been in most of Europe, China, Brazil, Iran and South Africa. On Tuesday, the United States extended by another  days restrictions barring nonessential travel at its Canadian and Mexican borders. Asked for comment on the travel advisory changes, Airlines for America, a trade group representing major US carriers, said it continues to urge the federal government to transparently establish the criteria C including clear metrics, benchmarks, and a timeline C for reopening international markets. Earlier this month, CDC said fully vaccinated people can safely travel within the United States at low risk but Director Rochelle Walensky discouraged Americans from doing so because of high coronavirus cases nationwide. Reuters