Chinas contributions to the UN
2021/10/29 16:18
The United Nations flag is seen during the United Nations General Assembly at UN headquarters in New York, Sept , .  The goal of the establishment of the United Nations was to have a balanced global relationship, curtailing hegemony and establishing peace and equality. As has been said before, like a sleeping giant waking up, China has made one achievement after another since the founding of the PRC in  and economic openingup in . The recent history of Chinese achievement and alignment with UN standards are China is the secondlargest contributor to the UN peacekeeping force. As per the  Sustainable Development Goal, China has uplifted all of its people from absolute poverty. The most important thing is that China is continuously reforming based on its own principles. The aim of each and every welfare state is the wellbeing of its citizens. The primary goal of the UN is to maintain international peace and security. Which refers to international cooperation on social, economic, and cultural development. The UN stands for Eradication of poverty The wellbeing of the world population Quality education Gender equality Clean water and sanitation Affordable and clean energy Economic growth Industry, innovation, and infrastructure Reducing inequality Sustainable development goals Chinas share of the UN targets are China has lifted  million people from absolute poverty. While the World Bank specifies the poverty line at . per person per day, China has made it above the benchmark of . a day. Besides income, it focuses on living standards based on education, healthcare, and the environment or living condition. China took two most important measures to curb COVID Stringent social restrictions and the construction of temporary medical facilities on war footage. In addition, responding to the UN initiative, China contributed  million to the WHO and sent medical exports to  countries and regions in the form of masks, vaccines, etc. According to World Education News Reviews, China has now achieved universal participation in higher education. China is producing  million graduates every year. By  the number is expected to multiply. Universities are enhancing the model of education maintaining global standards. Two renowned universities Tsinghua and Peking are ascending in the global rankings of universities. Just before the outbreak of the epidemic in , the survey showed that within two decades the number of Chinese students studying abroad reached ,, the highest number of students enrolled in foreign countries. In October , the UN SecretaryGeneral Antonio Guterres said, Today, womens leadership is a cause, tomorrow, it must be the norm. To match the concern, Chinas Outline of Womens Development in China  said, By , the policy of gender equality will be thoroughly implemented women will have equal access to full life cycle health services, enjoy equal rights to education, equal economic rights and interests, and equal political rights. China is working toward resolving its water scarcity issue. The World Banks Board of Executive Directors approved a  million loan to improve rural water supply and sanitation services in Sichuan province through a publicprivate partnership. China aims to meet  percent of energy needs through renewable sources by the year . The China grid model has four aspects Baseline, topmost efficiency, a large number of renewable sources, and low carbon. Currently, China uses . percent of nonfossil energy. Chinas postCOVID restoration of economic growth is slower yet has become an exemplary model for other economies. The figures show that on a PPP basis China will become the largest economy in the coming decades. A Harvard Business Review said that, the future of the Chinese economy lies in its innovation. In , around . trillion yuan were invested in research and development. By April , the highest number of unicorns registered was in technology, telecommunication, transportation, and logistics. In , Chinas infrastructure grew by . percent. China intends to redistribute wealth for common prosperity. The aim is to boost the income of the poor, rationally adjust excessive income, and ban illegal income. The notion of common prosperity was laid down by the leadership of Mao Zedong, developed by Deng Xiaoping and is followed by the current leadership. In parallel with the UN sustainable development goal, China has eliminated extreme poverty, energized climate actions and successfully tackled epidemic challenges, standing out as a global leader. Still, there is a long way to go. From time to time challenges will crop up. Being a founding member of the UN, permanent member of the Security Council, China needs to be on the same path as the UN and be the impeccable nation of execution. Nandini Dash is a writer based in India. The opinions expressed here are those of the writer and do not necessarily represent the views of China Daily and China Daily website. If you have a specific expertise, or would like to share your thought about our stories, then send us your writings at opinionchinadaily.com.cn, and commentchinadaily.com.cn.