Over  participants take part in marathon relay to mark CPCs  years
2021/4/19 0:00
LONDONThe funeral of the Duke of Edinburgh was held in Windsor in line with the British governments coronavirus restrictions on Saturday. Britain fell silent for a minute of reflection ahead of Prince Philips funeral, which began at pm local time at St. Georges Chapel, in the grounds of Windsor Castle, about  kilometers from central London. More than  members of the armed forces took part in the event, but given the current pandemic restrictions, only  mourners were allowed to attend the funeral inside St. Georges Chapel, including Queen Elizabeth II and other members of the royal family. The  guests at the funeral wore morning coats with medals, or day dress, but not military uniform. The event was a ceremonial royal funeral, rather than a state funeral, which very much reflects the dukes wishes, Buckingham Palace said. Members of the public were barred from attending the event because of the pandemic. The entire royal procession and funeral took place out of public view within the grounds of the castle, a yearold royal residence, but was shown live on television. Paying respects Hundreds of people lined the streets outside the castle to pay their respects to the prince. Some held Union flags and clutched flowers, while others wore custom face masks featuring the dukes photo. We have been inspired by his unwavering loyalty to our queen, by his service to the nation and the Commonwealth, by his courage, fortitude and faith, the dean of Windsor, David Conner, said in his call to prayer. The minutes silence was observed across the country, its beginning and end marked by a gun fired by the Kings Troop Royal Horse Artillery. The final shot signaled the start of a funeral service steeped in military and royal tradition, but infused with the dukes personality. Before the funeral Buckingham Palace issued a photo of the queen and Philip, smiling and relaxing on blankets in the grass in the Scottish Highlands in . The palace said the casual, unposed photo was one of the queens favorites. Prince Philip died aged  on April . He was born on the Greek island of Corfu on June , . Prince Philip married Princess Elizabeth in , five years before she became queen, and was the longestserving royal consort in British history. The couple had four children, eight grandchildren and  greatgrandchildren. The queen turns  on Wednesday. Queen Elizabeth II on Saturday during the funeral of Prince Philip. YUI MOKPOOLREUTERS