Winter Olympics center aims to build up new sports image
2021/4/16 15:11
Speculation and the postlockdown rebound have propelled a number of Chinese artists into the bluechip bracket. Joyce Yip looks for answers to whether this is all sustainable. Mask Series No.  by Zeng Fanzhi. The latter fetched the highest auction price for a piece of Chinese contemporary art. PHOTO PROVIDED TO CHINA DAILY A bright green German Shepard, a blindfolded dancer, and an eclectic interpretation of Van Goghs selfportrait  all of these images have one thing in common. They are works by Zhou Chunya, Zhang Xiaogang and Zeng Fanzhi  contemporary Chinese artists who made it to the  Blue Chip Artists Index compiled by Artprice, one of the worlds leading resources of art market information. The names make up half the living artists on the list, released by ArtMarket.com in March  a testament to their escalating demand in the past year. The addition of Zhou, Zhang and Zeng is well deserved. Known for his monochromatic figures with prominent, often emotionless eyes, Zhang set a personal record with his careerdefining Bloodline Series The Big Family No.  fetching US. million at a Christies auction late last year. Meanwhile, Zhous Spring is Coming  showing a Tibetan workingclass family in the process of migration  sold for US. million at a China Guardian auction in August, setting yet another personal record. Finally, Zengs Mask Series  No.  oil on canvas fetched US. million in Beijing, topping auction prices of Chinese contemporary art pieces. Mask Series  No.  by Zeng Fanzhi. The latter fetched the highest auction price for a piece of Chinese contemporary art. PHOTO PROVIDED TO CHINA DAILY According to the Art Market  report published by Art Basel and UBS, works by living artists in  accounted for close to half of the value of sales in the PostWar and Contemporary sector, up  percent in yearonyear share. Call it COVIDcollecting or revenge buy,  was a boon for bluechip artists as a third of the highnetworth collectors who figured in The Impact of COVID on the Gallery Sector, a  midyear survey, showed significantly more interest in art than before. And although speculative buying by a pool of collectors who seem to be getting increasingly younger played a major role in turning the spotlight on Chinese contemporary artists, this is a category that seems destined for a long run, given its relatively accessible asking price and shorter resale period. The Art Market  report attributes the skyrocketing performance of contemporary Chinese art pieces on home turf to Chinas success with containing the spread of COVID in the latter half of  plus a resolution of VAT issues last May that now allows auction houses selling art to issue full invoices, which may have stimulated some sales. Known for his green dog series, Zhou Chunyas Spring is Coming fetched US. million at a China Guardian auction in August , setting a personal record for the artist. PHOTO PROVIDED TO CHINA DAILY Known for his green dog series, Zhou Chunyas Spring is Coming fetched US. million at a China Guardian auction in August , setting a personal record for the artist. PHOTO PROVIDED TO CHINA DAILY Soaring superstars If you ask a collector, theyll never say they purchased art for speculation, said Clare McAndrew, founder of the art research firm Art Economics, who put the Art Market  Report together. But if somebody is turning around a piece in an auction in a year to three years, its speculation. These arent old buyingandselling models of collectors buying and holding art to donate or bequeath to their kids. Instead, theyre buying and selling within a year in auctions. The implication of this, she adds, is that auction houses have become the battleground for resale as they morph from a secondarymarket structure into not only an ecosystem very similar to a primary market, but also take on the role of a dealer  thus further exacerbating the topheavy bias she calls the superstar phenomenon. This is prevalent in China where artists try to sell directly to the auction sector, she said. Artists are being pushed into the resale market quite quickly where theres more liquidity. Especially during crisis and uncertainty in the market, people stick to what they know and what they see their successful peers doing. This is how we get the superstar phenomenon. Investors and collectors dont want to make a mistake or look like theyre doing the wrong thing. Mother and Son No  and The Big Family No.  from Zhang Xiaogangs Bloodline series. The latter earned US. million at a Christies auction. PHOTO PROVIDED TO CHINA DAILY Mother and Son No  and The Big Family No.  from Zhang Xiaogangs Bloodline series. The latter earned US. million at a Christies auction. PHOTO PROVIDED TO CHINA DAILY The good news, however, is that speculative megatransactions that make it to mainstream media coverage are indeed rare. The Art Market  Report further reveals that  percent of sales in the wider PostWar and Contemporary sector actually fetched prices less than US,. Albeit the loud noise generated by the likes of Zhou, Zhang and Zeng, the sale of pieces priced over US million account for just over half of the markets value in less than  percent of the lots sold. There is a spectrum of collectors, from purely financial to purely aesthetics, said McAndrew. Most people are somewhere in the middle no matter where theyre from, and frankly, this is the sensible place to be. You dont want to spend a lot of money on something that wont go up, and also not on something you dont truly enjoy. Thats how the market should be. Art trade analyst Clare McAndrew says during a time of uncertainty, such as the one caused by COVID, collectors tend to go for the superstars among artists. PHOTO PROVIDED TO CHINA DAILY Leo Xu, senior director at David Zwirner Hong Kong and founder of the nowdefunct Leo Xu Projects gallery in Shanghai which has helped bring young Chinese artists to the fore, agreed, saying that a speculationdriven market disassembled after investors had learnt their lesson from the  boom. His sentiments are backed by the Art Market  Report, which indicates that while the collectors on the Chinese mainland  the biggest clientele for Chinese contemporary art  remain optimistic about the growth of the global art market in the next  years, they are not that keen to make short and mediumterm investments right at this moment. Chinese collectors have learned their lesson from the past decade, when works fluctuated and devalued. So people arent stupid to buy art just for shortterm investments anymore, he said, adding that revenge buying during the height of the pandemic in  only dialled up the existing spotlight on Chinese contemporary artists. Leo Xu of David Zwirnir Gallery in Hong Kong says revenge buying during the pandemic helped dial up the popularity that Chinese contemporary art was already enjoying. PHOTO PROVIDED TO CHINA DAILY What the future holds Theres a deep insecurity among artists to catch up with the rest of the changing world but making art is not really about changing every minute, said Xu. I feel we are in a better position with museums and fairs returning, he said, adding these offer artists a scope for getting inspired and seeing their own works in the wider context while connecting with international dealers rather than waiting for people to visit them. There really wasnt a concept of Chinese contemporary art until recently, so its normal for Chinese artists to compare themselves with others  whether I can paint like that, use such mediums  but if they have a chance to broaden their horizons, their craft should come naturally. While he applauds artists trying to connect with buyers online, Xu thinks the next step is establishing an institution in which curators, writers, dealers, researchers and managers can work together. Existing fellowships at national museums in Beijing and Chengdu are a good start, he said, hoping such efforts will continue as more overseaseducated enthusiasts return to China and contribute to the art scene. McAndrew agreed, hoping a diversification of resources can dissipate the current superstar phenomenon and restore in collectors  both seasoned and new  a confidence in their own taste for art. Given the growing number of emerging artists being promoted by art dealers and galleries at the moment, such optimism might be based on solid foundations. No market can be fueled by speculation alone. Though COVIDcollecting has notched up the prices of certain categories of art and works by master painters, the market for Chinese contemporary art has been growing at a steady pace in the past decade and will probably continue to do so as long as collectors make informed choices.