Cubas communist party kicks off Congress of Continuity
2021/4/16 10:05
Hideki Matsuyama of Japan celebrates on the th green after winning the Masters at Augusta National Golf Club in Augusta, Georgia on April , .  The roars returned to the Masters. At least two of them. There were enough spectators, believed to be roughly , a day, to at least bring some sound back to the gorgeous scenery of Augusta National in April. And they stood sixdeep around the th green  masks on  as Hideki Matsuyama walked up the hill to a oneshot victory. Missing was that headturning volume, a brief burst of cheers that made spectators look around and try to figure out where it came from and what they were missing elsewhere on the course. One of those roars was for Tommy Fleetwood making a holeinone on the th hole in the opening round. The loudest of the week was for Corey Conners making his ace on the sixth hole Saturday. But it was progress, and that goes for the rest of golf. Spectators in limited numbers returned this year at the Phoenix Open  compared with other years in Phoenix, that would be very limited  and have been a part of PGA Tour events ever since the circuit left California. The next test is not so much who has spectators, but how many? And the most questions surround the Memorial in Dublin, Ohio, the first week in June. The tournament posted on its website plans for as safe of an experience as possible, and that it will consult on the matter with local and state governments and the tour. Memorial organizers said they have temporarily suspended badge sales to best manage the ticketing process. Fans are asked to sign up on a waiting list and they will be contacted should additional badges become available. The Memorial last year had a detailed plan for spectators that had been approved by the state until it was decided  days before the start of the tournament there would be none. A small grandstand by the th hole and some concession structures were still up during the tournament. At least some spectators would be expected everywhere else on the upcoming tour schedule. The RBC Heritage this week has allowed  percent capacity at Hilton Head. That will be followed by the Zurich Classic in Avondale, Louisiana up to , a day, the Valspar Championship in Tampa Bay, Florida  percent capacity, the Wells Fargo Championship in Charlotte, North Carolina maximum  percent capacity, the ATT Byron Nelson in Dallas , a day, the PGA Championship at Kiawah Island in South Carolina , a day and the Charles Schwab Challenge at Colonial in Fort Worth, Texas , a day. Its funny to think that , is going to feel like a lot of people, but after the year we just went through, its going to feel like it, Jon Drago, the ATT Byron Nelson tournament director, told The Dallas Morning News. The Colonial last year was the first event back from the pandemic. Hilton Head moved to June and the PGA Championship went from May to August. The rest of them between now and the Memorial were canceled. Inkster, , signs up Seventime major champion and LPGA Hall of Famer Juli Inkster has signed up for the hole US Open qualifier to be held later this month. Inkster, who is , said shes played San Franciscos Olympic Club, site of the June  US Womens Open, about  times. The qualifier will be held April  at Half Moon Bay Golf Links outside of San Francisco. Im probably an idiot for trying, but I think I would be disappointed in myself if I didnt because its so close to home, Inkster told Golfweek on Tuesday. Inkster made her  debut last month at the Kia Classic and will play again next week at HugelAir Premia LA Open. Inkster, a twotime US Womens Open winner, last played in an Open in . I just decided, you know, what the heck, Inkster told Golfweek.If I make it, I make it if I dont, I dont. Agencies via Xinhua