Biden would do world a favor by dumping Trumps trade practices
2021/4/15 15:20
Former US President Donald Trump leaves the White House in Washington, D.C., the United States, on Aug. , . Photo by Ting ShenXinhua There are two items that just wont fit Republicans or Democrats narratives of imposing tariffs on China campaign hats and surgical masks. One is a symbol of the past, gone with the twiceimpeached former president, and the other is a daily necessity, shielding us from the still rampant virus. Those dead and gone campaign hats yes, many were indeed produced in China, however, together with over  billion masks China exported to America from March to February represent only a tiny fraction of the complex trade ties between the worlds two largest economies. Behind the tip of the iceberg is a loselose battle, unilaterally chosen by the US, that will continue to damage the already vulnerable world economy. Tariff gamble crumbles For a long time, the Trump administration had based its whimsical tariff practices on a false hope that they would reverse Americas trade deficit and bring jobs back home. But the statistics told a different story. A US Census Bureau report showed that the US goods trade deficit reached a record of . billion in , a surge of . billion . yearonyear, following former US President Donald Trumps relentless imposition of tariffs against China and many American allies, including Canada and the EU. A study commissioned by the USChina Business Council USCBC also suggested that the trade friction caused a peak loss of , US jobs and a gradual scaling back of tariffs on both sides would boost growth and lead to an additional , jobs by . In fact, the job losses and deficit spikes were a lesson that repeated itself. One needs to look no further than the George W. Bush administration era, during which an  to  percent tariff on certain steel products from all countries except Canada, Israel, Jordan, and Mexico cost the US nearly , jobs in the steelconsuming sector, larger than the entire number of employed , in the steel sector itself at the time. Just like back in , when the vast majority of steelconsuming manufacturers were actually small companies, which bore the brunt of the tariffs, it was those everyday consumers and small businesses that suffered the most from Trumps tariff carpet bombing. Since Chinas entry into the WTO, the prices of many consumer goodsranging from washing machines, televisions, and PCs to Christmas decorations, toys, and clothinghave taken a sharp decline, giving American consumers more options to choose from. Thanks to the efficient value chain and fast global shipping services many only realized their importance after the grounding of Ever Given in the Suez Canal, families in Anchorage, Alaska can buy decorations for Christmas Eve some , miles away in Yiwu, east Chinas Zhejiang Province, which produces around  of the worlds Christmas decorations. The COVID pandemic has also served as a deep reminder that Chinese products are inextricably intertwined with the global market. Back in March , a pack of Ms N mask was sold on US Amazon for . and still in short supply while states were grappling to procure scarce PPEs and ventilators. At a time when American manufacturers were struggling to meet demand, China made an average of  masks for every person around the globe, according to a Bloomberg report. American conglomerates have also been profiting greatly from the Chinese assembly line and the vast, lucrative market. In January , Tesla Giga Shanghai also known as Gigafactory  started to deliver its brandnew Tesla Model Y, an electric compact crossover utility vehicle CUV. Currently, with a production rate of , cars a week, Tesla sells one in three of its electric cars in China. The Apple Bucket, a term used by Chinese netizens for the whole set of Apple products after the KFC Bucket, is yet more proof that madeinChina has already been written into the DNA of American products, something which has long been taken for granted. Trumps tariff gamble was based on a misconception that American consumers could wean themselves off Chinese products and swallow a chunk of the tariffs by paying more for local goods, that more demand for domestic products would create more jobs, and that American companies could soon find alternative suppliers and buyers and live happily ever after. But the sad truth is that salaries arent growing with the price tags, especially during a time when millions of households are waiting for relief bills to make ends meet, no welltrained workers are ready to be deployed for gigantic production tasks, and that such an advanced supplychain is nowhere to be found other than in one of Americas largest trading partners Three years into the trade friction,  percent of Chinese products exported to US and  percent of US exports to China have still been affected, with farmers as collateral damage, and , jobs lost and . percentage points in US GDP shredded during the first year, a recent CNN report said. A perfect storm Besides the counterproductive tariffs, Trump also wielded other dangerous weapons in the hope of boosting domestic industries. By bullying Chinese companies out of the competitionthrough penalizing Chinese tech companies by adding them to the socalled entity list, delisting those companies from stock exchanges, or simply signing executive orders to curb their operationsthe Trump administration was creating a perfect storm of statemanipulated trade practices, exactly the same thing they have continuously accused other nations of doing. But apparently, tariffs plus economic weapons werent enough in the eyes of Trump. Then came that ganglike, bullyingstyle game of framing China. According to Americas guidebook, no trick is easier to pull than slamming other nations for human rights violations. The reckless forcing out and groundless defaming game had done nothing good to the international market, which had already been disrupted by the COVID pandemic, and also set a terrible precedent in which US market regulators could pronounce the death sentence on wellbehaved companies in a selfproclaimed free market with groundless and unreasonable accusations, a practice that is destined to discourage future investment and cooperation. Thomas L. Friedman, a New York Times columnist, compared ChinaUS relations to the Olympic Games in his recently published argumentative essay, ending it with So, lets make sure we win the Olympics that count. If ChinaUS relations are to be regarded as the Olympic Games, with bilateral trade as the main event, the race doesnt need to be that ugly. So, instead of wasting time setting hurdles for other contestants to slow them down so as to maintain your dominance, why not focus on your own rhythm in the real world, the wellbeing of the people, racial equality, innovation, and education, etc.? An April  opinion article in the Financial Times titled Biden should summon the courage to reverse course on China said that ending the trade friction with China would boost economic growth in the US, helping Biden in the  midterm elections. And most of the world would cheer if the Biden administration pressed the pause button, especially while COVID is still raging. The world would indeed cheer if the Biden administration abandons the Trump tariffs and trade practices that did no one any good, and let the free market speak.