New medics learn about Norman Bethunes spirit of sacrifice
2021/4/15 8:55
A passerby wearing a protective face mask walks past a screen showing a countdown to the Tokyo  Olympic Games and Tokyo  Paralympic Games that have been postponed to  due to the coronavirus disease COVID pandemic, in Tokyo, Japan, April , .  As the Games pass the daystogo mark, difficulties and uncertainties abound for host Japan When Japan won the bid to host the Olympics eight years ago, it billed Tokyo as a reliable and secure location, contrasting it with rivals struggling with finances and political instability. But  days before the start of the Games, organizers face a deluge of challenges and growing uncertainty as the pandemic rages around the world, affecting decisions on everything from athlete safety to spectator numbers to ticket sales. The statue of Miraitowa L and Someity, two mascots of the Tokyo  Olympics and Paralympics, as well as a display of the Olympic Symbol at Mt. Takao on the screen, is unveiled by officials and guests to mark  days before the start of the Tokyo Olympic Games at the Tokyo Metropolitan Government building in Tokyo on April , .  The biggest headache is the resurgent coronavirus, with countries like India and Brazil battling new variants and a fresh rise in cases. In Japan, vaccinations have been the slowest among developed economies, as Tokyo has lurched in and out of soft lockdowns. Infections are on the rise, and experts worry the city is on the cusp of an explosive jump in cases. As a result, foreign spectators have been barred, parts of the torch relay have been rerouted, and the organizers are yet to decide what to do with the domestic audience. This has caused major challenges for sports venues and travel agencies, already grappling with restrictions to block the virus. The situation is constantly shifting. Even in the last few months the coronavirus situation has changed massively, and it will continue to do so, and its very challenging to continue preparations when we dont know what the situation will be in the future, said Hidemasa Nakamura, the top organizing committee official overseeing logistical preparations for the Games. A man wears a protective mask amid the coronavirus COVID outbreak in front of the giant Olympic rings in Tokyo on January , .  His team has created the first playbook with COVID countermeasures, including rules banning visits to shops and restaurants. If visiting athletes break protocol, it could result in them being barred from competing. But Nakamura pledged to overcome the challenges as one team and told Reuters it was important to show what we have now, receive feedback, and finalize the playbook step by step, not to have these discussions behind closed doors. The next update to the rules is expected this month, he said. Real scramble Nakamura said that the summer heat poses another obstacle for Tokyo, and there will be situations where its hard to balance both heat and coronavirus countermeasures, such as when people in masks queue outside venues. The statue of Miraitowa L and Someity, two mascots of the Tokyo  Olympics and Paralympics, is unveiled to mark  days before the start of the Olympic Games at the Tokyo Metropolitan Government building in Tokyo on April , .  Tokyo government official Yoichiro Hara, who oversees preparations on public roads around the venues, added that the symptoms of heat exhaustion can be similar to those of the coronavirus. Hara said his team is considering whether medical staff at firstaid stations should wear full protective suits, but with the difficulty of gauging the prevalence of the virus in July and no decision yet on the number of spectators, they have been unable to decide on how many stations are needed. Rainbow Bridge is illuminated in Olympic colors to mark  days before the Tokyo  Olympic Games in Tokyo, Japan on April , .  Another challenge is the athletes village, expected to house , people from more than  countries and regions to compete in  sports at  venues. The organizers have planned for , volunteers to shepherd athletes and spectators around the city. The medical system is already under strain. Our local health center cant possibly take care of those athletes in the village, said Hideki Hayakawa, director of the Olympic coordination unit at Tokyos Chuo ward, where the village is located. Tokyos National Stadium is scheduled to host the Olympics opening ceremony on July  despite continuing concerns over the feasibility of the Games amid the pandemic. REUTERS Hayakawa said that and other issues are still being negotiated with the Tokyo government. Some local organizers complain that information from Tokyo has come slowly, and that they learn about key developments from the media. Others, like Mie Watanabe, readying the road race course in Oyama, a city  kilometers  miles southwest of Tokyo, worry months of their work could go to waste. Ariake Arena is illuminated in Olympic colors to mark  days before the Tokyo  Olympic Games in Tokyo, Japan on April , .  The fact that we dont know if roadside spectators will be allowed is a big problem for usit means some of our preparations wont be needed, said Watanabe, listing items such as tents, toilets, and parking spaces. Organizers in Oyama have set aside money to buy up to , masks for the onlookersif they are allowed to gather. Once we do find out, its going to be a real scramble, Watanabe said. REUTERS