Digital intervention can help to tackle depression
2021/4/14 7:40
The Shuanghuaishu site in Gongyi, Henan province, was found to contain the ruins of a huge city dating back , years. LI ANXINHUA This year marks the centennial of the birth of modern Chinese archaeology following the discovery of Yangshao Culturewhich dates to , years agoand Chinese archaeologists have presented fruitful new findings for the celebration. Chinas Top  New Archaeological Discoveries of , this years version of an annual list often referred to as the Oscars of Chinese Archaeology, was released on Tuesday. The list reflects how civilization formed and grew, mixing various cultural elements through millenniums. The  outstanding findings are highlights of over , archaeological excavations in China last year, according to Yan Yalin, director of the cultural heritage conservation and archaeology department of the National Cultural Heritage Administration. Twenty candidates, selected by archaeologists polls and public opinion, entered the final round of appraisals, which was conducted by a panel of  judges on Monday and Tuesday. The panel was composed of toptier scholars from the countrys universities, research institutes and museums. A rich cache of pottery figurines was unearthed from tombs at the Shaolingyuan site, Xian, Shaanxi province, from the Sixteen Kingdoms period . CHINA CULTURAL RELICS NEWSCHINA DAILY Beside the East China Sea, archaeologists unearthed a massive shell mound dating from , years agothe biggest and oldest of its kind on the Chinese mainlandat the Jingtoushan site in Yuyao, Zhejiang province. The site was so well preserved in mud  meters below the surface that the myriad shells unearthed looked almost like they hadnt aged at all, giving the archaeological dig the appearance of a seafood market. An abundance of other relics, like articles of daily use left in the marshland, also vividly reflected peoples lifestyle in coastal areas back then, said Li Shuicheng, a Sichuan University professor and member of the judges panel. That also provides crucial references for studies of environmental changes on the coast. Meanwhile, an epic of the early history of Tibet was discovered in the form of figurines and artifacts at the Sangsdar Lungmgo grave site in Zanda county, Ngari prefecture, Tibet autonomous region. The articles spanned from the th century BC to the th century AD. Through the unearthed wooden figurines and gold and silver artifacts, we see frequent communication among the region, with the area to the south of the Himalayas as well as todays Central China and the Xinjiang Uygur autonomous region, said Han Guohe, an archaeologist and deputy president of Zhengzhou University. Thanks to the discoveries, researchers can sweep away some of the fog obscuring the past. A goldplated silver mask was unearthed at Sangsdar Lungmgo graveyard site, Tibet autonomous region, which dates from the th century BC to the th century AD. CHINA CULTURAL RELICS NEWSCHINA DAILY In Guizhou province, Zhaoguodong cave, the oldest site among the Top  and dating from , to , years ago, offered key clues for studies of the early history of modern humans through discoveries of tools made of bones. At the Mopancun site in Tumen, Jilin province, city ruins from the early th centurythe newest site of the Top was proved to be the capital of Dongxia, a regional state that once had great influence in Northeast China. There was less information about Dongxia than other states due to a lack of documentation. But unearthed artifacts written in Chinese characters showed a close connection between the state and Central China. In Henan province, in the heart of Central Chinas plains, considered a civilization hub of ancient China, recent findings are providing a new understanding of the early years of its role nurturing the nations culture. The Shuanghuaishu site in Gongyi was found to contain the ruins of a huge city dating back , years, and showed many links with urban construction in later historical periods. Compared with other key ruins from roughly , years ago in the rest of China, sites in Henan, which was supposed to be a cultural core, surprisingly remained relevantly quiet within this period, Li said. Figures made of gold foil, discovered at the Reshui graveyard site, Haixi MongolianTibetan autonomous prefecture, Qinghai province, are believed to date to the Tang Dynasty . CHINA CULTURAL RELICS NEWSCHINA DAILY The citys ruins, across . square kilometers, has three layers of moats around a complex of residential compounds, sacrificial pits, altars, graveyards and other features. It is the highestlevel city ruins of its time found along the middle and lower reaches of the Yellow River. Another finding that excited archaeologists was a suspected wheel rut on the site. The earliest known confirmed rut in China is from , years ago, so the new finding, if confirmed, could rewrite the history of transportation, Li added. In Zhoukou, also in Henan, barns that included fortifications at the Shizhuang site, dating from  to  BC, have provided the earliest evidence in China of government regulation of food storage and supply. It is a key clue for our exploration of the governance and social structure of earlystage states, and also aids our research on how a centralized dynasty was born and grew in China, said Xu Hong, a researcher at the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences Institute of Archaeology. The Top  lists, started by China Cultural Relics News, were first released in . Interest in the list has moved beyond niche scholars, and it now attracts much attention.