Sanctions on Xinjiang cotton use opposed
2021/4/12 10:25
BYD launches its new electric models, including the  Tang EV and the Qin Plus EV, last week in Chongqing. The new SUV and sedan are equipped with the automakers selfdeveloped bladeshaped batteries. Photo by Zhang DandanChina Daily All dangers must be targeted as more electric cars hit the road, says automakers chairman Auto manufacturer BYD produced a total of  million face masks a day at its peak last year to help safeguard peoples health amid the COVID outbreak. BYD also hopes to perform better in ensuring peoples safety with its selfdeveloped bladeshaped battery. The No  enemy to the better and faster development of the electric vehicle market is battery fire, said BYD Chairman Wang Chuanfu at a launch event last week in Southwest Chinas Chongqing. As more people buy new energy vehicles, the risk of traffic safety accidents has increased accordingly. The safety of power batteries is of great importance, Wang said. Safety should be the most luxury feature of an electric vehicle. BYD, with  years of research and development in battery making, launched its bladeshaped battery in March . The battery has been recognized by the market thanks for its strong performance in safety and endurance. BYDs Han EV is the automakers first model to adopt the bladeshaped battery, and hit the market in July last year. Through March, the model had achieved a sales volume surpassing , units in four separate months November and December of  as well as January and March this year, with total sales reaching ,. In March alone, BYD sold , units of the Han EV, soaring . percent from February. All of BYDs electric models have now started to adopt bladeshaped batteries, Wang said at the event last week, where the automaker launched four new electric carsthe  Tang EV, the Qin Plus EV, the Song Plus EV and the  e. Adhering to independent control of its core industrial equipment RD and manufacturing, BYD independently developed and manufactured the bladeshaped battery, its production line and equipment along with other key components, the company said. Meanwhile, the production capacity of the bladeshaped battery is rapidly climbing with reliable quality, BYD said. The batteries are expected to be used in NEV models of mainstream brands both at home and abroad. The  Tang EV can accelerate from  kilometers per hour in . seconds and travel up to  km on a single charge. With comprehensive subsidies for its three variants, the model is available at prices ranging from ,, yuan ,,. Striking a balance between speed and range, the Qin Plus EV can accelerate from  km per hour in four seconds and drive up to  km on a single charge. With a power consumption for  km as low as . kilowatthours, the model can handle an average twoweek commute once fully charged, according to BYD. The four variants of the Qin Plus EV are available at prices ranging from ,, yuan. The Song Plus EV, with a top driving range of  km on a single charge, is available at prices of , yuan and , yuan for its two variants. The  e can run up to  km on a single charge and has a power consumption of . kWh per  km. With three variants, the model is available at prices starting at , yuan.