Timeline Chinas prompt release of COVID information, experiencesharing
2021/4/10 14:15
Jiao Anjing wins the womens event at the  Xiamen Marathon on April , .  XIAMEN  Having been rated a  World Athletics Elite Platinum Label race in late February, the  Xiamen Marathon kicks off here on Saturday with a total of , runners. The  Xiamen Marathon, scheduled for January , was postponed to April  following a circular issued on December , , by Chinas State Council task force on combating the COVID epidemic. As the first domestic platinum event recovered and launched in , pandemic prevention and control remained the top priority. According to the organizers, all staff and volunteers in close contact with runners passed nucleic acid tests before the match. All contestants were notified to take proper measures against the pandemic via SMS and other means. The green health code, day travel routing card, and nucleic test report were required to be checked upon material pickup. The runners who picked up a number bib were also given a bracelet for prematch security check convenience. In addition, disposable face masks were also included in the contestants packages and postmatch supplies for all runners. As one of Chinas top marathons, the  Xiamen Marathon has attracted  outstanding contestants, including  male runners ever finishing a full race within  and  females within . Beatrice, who is working in Zhejiang Province, said this is her third time to join the Xiamen Marathon. Ive been waiting for  months. It is really a long time, Beatrice said, I love Xiamen Marathon for its beautiful course, with the .kilometer route passing by the best scenery in the city. Guo Zhiwei from Macao attends the marathon held in the Chinese mainland for the first time. Im excited to have the chance to join all the runners, Guo said, the city is clean and the weather is good. I wish I can have a good result. The Xiamen Marathon has run successfully for  years since its inception in . The result of  made by Kenyan Moses Mosop at the  version stands as the race record for the Xiamen Marathon. The Xiamen Marathon gained the World Athletics Elite Platinum Label in February, alongside the six world marathon majors Boston, London, Berlin, Chicago, New York, and Tokyo, becoming the second race to win this label in China after the Shanghai Marathon.