Worlds top  firms with most market value gains in
2021/4/9 21:17
Over  delivery workers are on duty in Ruili, Yunnan province, to ensure peoples needs for life necessities as residents in the citys urban districts are being urged to continue staying at home for quarantine. Photo provided to chinadaily.com.cn As Ruili in Yunnan province tightens efforts on pandemic control, residents in the citys urban districts are being urged to continue staying at home for quarantine, according to the citys government. To meet residents demands for life necessities, the city has coordinated major food delivery platforms to work with big supermarkets in the city to deliver food and other life necessities to communities. Over  delivery workers are on duty every day to ensure deliveries. Yang Ganen is one of them. Every morning, he spends around  minutes checking his temperature, registering his health condition, disinfecting his delivery case and electric bike, and then putting on a face mask and protective gloves to start his work. He delivers around  orders every day. Some communities forbid entry, so we put stuff at the gates to keep a distance from people who come to get their orders, he said. Luo Zhi, who has been working as deliveryman for four years, is proud of contributing to the citys pandemic control and prevention work. Increasing orders during the pandemic have led to a shortage of delivery vehicles, so Luo has used his own car to deliver life necessities. I am ready at all times because people make orders at different times, some at around  am and some at  pm, said Luo. Over  delivery workers are on duty in Ruili, Yunnan province, to ensure peoples needs for life necessities as residents in the citys urban districts are being urged to continue staying at home for quarantine. Photo provided to chinadaily.com.cn Over  delivery workers are on duty in Ruili, Yunnan province, to ensure peoples needs for life necessities as residents in the citys urban districts are being urged to continue staying at home for quarantine. Photo provided to chinadaily.com.cn Over  delivery workers are on duty in Ruili, Yunnan province, to ensure peoples needs for life necessities as residents in the citys urban districts are being urged to continue staying at home for quarantine. Photo provided to chinadaily.com.cn Over  delivery workers are on duty in Ruili, Yunnan province, to ensure peoples needs for life necessities as residents in the citys urban districts are being urged to continue staying at home for quarantine. Photo provided to chinadaily.com.cn Over  delivery workers are on duty in Ruili, Yunnan province, to ensure peoples needs for life necessities as residents in the citys urban districts are being urged to continue staying at home for quarantine. Photo provided to chinadaily.com.cn Over  delivery workers are on duty in Ruili, Yunnan province, to ensure peoples needs for life necessities as residents in the citys urban districts are being urged to continue staying at home for quarantine. Photo provided to chinadaily.com.cn