Argentina extends COVID social distancing measures until April
2021/4/9 10:26
A woman wearing a face mask scans a QRcode to check her turn to take a train at Constitucion train station, amid a rise in cases of the coronavirus disease COVID, in Buenos Aires, Argentina April , .  BUENOS AIRES  The Argentine government extended on Thursday the social, preventive and mandatory distancing measures established to control the COVID pandemic until April , according to a presidential decree published in the Official Gazette. The decree stated that in all areas, both public and private, people must maintain a minimum distance of two meters from each other and wear face masks in shared spaces. In addition, it noted that under no circumstances may persons who are considered confirmed cases of COVID circulate, nor may persons considered suspected cases or close contacts. The decree said that telework will be encouraged among those who can and group trips should be suspended for students graduating from primary or secondary schools, as well as retiree trips, study tours, nonofficial sports competitions and tourist trips throughout the country. In areas with high epidemiological and health risks, such as the city of Buenos Aires, mobility is prohibited between  a.m. and  a.m., according to the regulations. Moreover, social activities and meetings in private homes and in open public spaces of more than  people, along with any recreational sports of over  people in a closed area, are suspended until April . Casinos, discos and nightclubs are closed until April , while restaurants and bars must close between  p.m. and  a.m. President Alberto Fernandez told local press on Thursday that the measures were adopted in good faith, in sync with provincial governors and for residents protection, state news agency Telam reported. The majority of COVID infections happen on public transport and during social gatherings, the president stressed, not in factories or schools, urging people to avoid all social gatherings. As of Thursday, Argentina confirmed ,, COVID cases and , deaths, according to the health ministry.