Experts Be prepared for high incidences of COVID and influenza
2021/10/27 12:52
A resident gets a booster shot of the COVID vaccine at a community service center in Tianxin District of Changsha, Central Chinas Hunan province, Oct , .  Influenza morbidity in the country has been rising since March, and society needs to be prepared for the possible scenario of high incidences of COVID and influenza in autumn and winter, medical experts said at a media interview in Shanghai on Oct , ahead of World Flu Day which falls on Nov . Last year, influenza morbidity decreased by nearly  percent yearonyear, according to the National Health Commission, and experts believe this was the result of public health control measures such as wearing masks and social distancing which came about because of the COVID pandemic. This year, influenza morbidity went up, according to the Chinese National Influenza Center figures, but was still lower than the  level and was under control, said Yu Guangjun, president of the Childrens Hospital of Shanghai. I believe the rise was due to the fact that individuals paid less attention to personal hygiene habits and social activities rebounded when the COVID pandemic situation stabilized, he added. Experts also reminded the public to get vaccinated against influenza as the period spanning October to March is when flu viruses are the most active. In addition to vaccines, there are also various preventive and therapeutic drugs for flu. The public needs to distinguish between flu and catching a cold, said Zhang Ting, director of the infectious diseases and gastroenterology department at the Childrens Hospital of Shanghai. In April, an innovative influenza therapy by Swiss pharmaceutical company Roche received approval from the Chinese authorities for use on flu patients aged  and above. World Health Organization data shows that influenza affects  to  percent of adults and  to  percent of children each year, causing  million severe cases and more than , deaths.