Hong Kong reports  new COVID cases
2021/4/5 0:00
Admiring flower blossom and visiting historical and cultural attractions were favored activities by Chinese travelers for the Tomb Sweeping Day holiday, which is a traditional break to commemorate ones ancestors. The recent discovery of plus cultural relics at Sanxingdui Ruins site in Guanghan, Sichuan provincewith history dating back more than , yearswent viral online, making historical sites an even more popular choice among travelers. Figures from Qunar, an online travel agency, show that searches for Sanxingdui on its platform rose . times up to March  compared to the same period in , and its popularity may continue to rise. Chinese peoples desire for travel has seen new highs as the weather gets warmer and the COVID pandemic remains wellcontrolled at a domestic level. Lan Xiang, director of Qunars big data research center, said that the reservation of flights for the April  holiday increased . times from that in . The demand made the average price of air tickets rebound to the level before the virus outbreak, which is around  yuan . Trips from Beijing to Chengdu, capital of Sichuan, were the most popular flight reservation on the platform for the holiday, Qunar said, which cost around  yuan for a single trip. The reservation of selfdriving tours saw a remarkable increase due to travelers preference for a cleaner traveling environment and enhanced privacy. Lvmama, another online travel service provider, said that till March , reservations for selfdriving tour packages registered a rise of  percent compared with the previous week. Destinations featuring breathtaking views and flower blossom are attractive to selfdriving travelers. For example, Wuyuan, in eastern Jiangxi province, has stretching fields of flowers that attract millions of visitors each year. Liu Xing, a yearold from Anhui province, said that he plans to take his parents on a shortdistance tour by driving a car. We plan to go to Suzhou in Jiangsu province, which is around  kilometers from Hefei, my hometown, he said. I didnt go back home during the Spring Festival holiday, answering the governments call to stay put. Taking them on a selfdriving car tour is a good way of reunion, we can talk and enjoy views during the trip. The growing number of tourpackage reservations for the break is a major sign of recovery in the tourism market, which was hit hard by the novel coronavirus outbreak in . Trip.com gave figures showing that till March , the number of travelers reserving tickets for attractions on its platform had recovered to the level of . It also predicts that the number may rise by  percent from that of . chengsichinadaily.com.cn Visitors enjoy blooming cherry blossoms at the Yuantouzhu scenic area in Wuxi, Jiangsu province, on March . HUAN YUELIANGXINHUA Bronze masks displayed at Sanxingdui Ruins Museum in Guanghan, Sichuan province. ZHANG KAIXINFOR CHINA DAILY