COVID significantly changes retail industry in Europe
2021/4/4 15:30
People wearing protective masks walk past a window display of a closed retail store in London, Britain, Dec , .  FRANKFURT  The COVID pandemic has forced cashloving Europeans to embrace significant changes in their shopping behaviors. It is believed that booming online business and less cash payment will keep on going even in the postpandemic era. In February, adjusted retail turnover in Germany declined by  percent in real terms from a year earlier, following the second COVID lockdown, which caused a large number of shops to close, Federal Statistical Office said on Thursday. However, the data from this office also showed that the internet and mail order business clearly benefited from the store closure, with sales in February increasing by more than  percent year on year in real terms. In fact, thanks to the flourishing online business, retail sales across the European Union EU countries has avoided a worse slump amid the pandemic in . The annual average retail trade for the year  only fell by . percent in the EU, where the GDP slumped at an annual rate of . percent, the data from the Eurostat showed. A survey in  European countries at the end of  conducted by Ecommerce Europe, an association representing over , online retailers in Europe, indicated that all respondents reported positive growth in product sales online over the past year, ranging from  to  percent in Poland to  to  percent in Finland. On ecommerce during the COVID crisis, all respondents reported a positive public perception for the sector, and a majority reported positive political perception as well, according to the Ecommerce Europe. The answers to the survey demonstrated that ecommerce has become a lifeline for many traditional brickandmortar businesses that had to close, allowing them to continue their activities during the lockdown. Despite the strong demand in online business over the past year, the survey also showed a nuanced image of the impact of COVID on the industry. While many sectors have generally seen increasing sales, there is also a significant segment that has experienced a decrease in sales. For example, ecommerce services such as travel or online ticket sales fell by  to  percent among the respondents. Additionally, while the fashion sector, notably home wear, has improved, the demand for other types of shoes and attire remains low. With the risks of infection still high in Europe, the retail industry obviously gears up for a difficult . A new survey from the German Retail Federation HDE showed that  percent of fashion stores faced the danger of bankruptcy after  days of lockdown. The ecommerce sector, however, expects a definitive growth in product sales in  and a possible growth in the sale of services dependent on the severity of the COVID measures, the survey from Ecommerce Europe showed. Before COVID, most customers in Europe made purchasing decisions in the store, choosing products based on what they saw and touched, and usually paid by cash. Though consumers in Germany paid more for their purchases with debit and credit cards than with cash for the first time in , about . percent of all retail purchases in Germany were still made using cash, which shows that Germans generally still preferred to pay small sums in cash, according to the EHI Retail Institute. A Bundesbank survey showed that COVID has changed German consumers behaviour. The ratio of respondents who said they had changed their payment behaviour increased from  percent to  percent within only one month after the breakout of the pandemic, it said. The year of  has completely changed our everyday life. Our purchases are significantly more digital than they were in the previous year, said Robert Hoffmann, CEO of Concardis and Nets Merchant Services, the European payment service provider.