Progress opens window of opportunity to beat COVID
2021/4/3 9:22
A rare type of bronze vessel zun, which has a round rim and a square body, is among the items newly unearthed from Sanxingdui site. Photo provided to China Daily New discoveries at the Sanxingdui Ruins site in Guanghan, Sichuan province, have dramatically fueled public enthusiasm. Ticket bookings to Sanxingdui Museum through Trip.com, where the news conference announcing major findings at the site was held on March , increased nearly  times that of the previous weekend. Many tourists have gone to see the mysterious ancient Shu civilization. About half of them come from Sichuan province and the rest mostly from Jiangsu province, Beijing, Guangdong province, Chongqing and Shanghai. Travelers who were born in the s and s have shown the most interest in the site, according to the agency. More than  cultural relics have been unearthed at the site. Among them are fragments of a golden mask, birdshaped gold decorative pieces, giant bronze masks, ivory, and a bronze sculpture of a tree. Those discoveries could help clear up some questions about the ancient Shu civilization. Sanxingdui Ruins were the largest ancient Shu culture site in southwestern China. The Sanxingdui Museum has collected and displayed more than , relics unearthed from the site, including bronze, jade, gold, pottery and bone items. The museum covers an area of nearly , square meters. It has two pavilions. One displays cultural relics of various kinds, such as gold, bronze and jade, while the other pavilion is dedicated to bronze. The bronzewares have a distinctive look. One of the most iconic relics is the Grand Statue of Human Figure, excavated from the No  sacrificial pit of Sanxindui in . It symbolized the top authority. This April the Sanxingdui Museum will start upgrading the bronze pavilion, which will use a hightech and multimedia exhibition to display the relics to the public in August. At the same time, major local museums in Sichuan have also received great interest, for those who want to gain a deeper insight in the ancient local culture. Historical sites in Chengdu, including the Jinsha Site Museum, Wuhou Shrine Museum and the Chengdu Museum, are all worth visiting in the city. The Jinsha Site Museum, about an hours drive away, was the site of a combined ancient Shu and modern civilization. The site covers an area of about five square kilometers and dates back to about , years ago, the time from the late Shang Dynasty c. thth century BC to the early Spring and Autumn Period  BC. The museum was built to protect, study and display the archaeological findings at Jinsha, which were first discovered by archaeologists in . More than  gold articles, over , jade pieces, and many lifelike stone statues have been found in the site. The Wuhou Shrine Museum is about half an hour drive from Jinsha. It offers a good example of the culture of the Three Kingdoms . The shrine complex sits in the south of Chengdu. It covers an area of about , square meters and was reputedly the sacred land of the Three Kingdoms. The shrine was originally built for the founding emperor of the Shu Kingdom  Liu Bei, since he had chosen the location as his own mausoleum. More than a thousand years later, the shrine commemorating one of Lius loyal subject ministers, counselorinchief Zhuge Liang , was moved here. Travelers also cant miss Jinli street beside the museum, where ancient architecture, local food, souvenirs, Sichuan opera and other folk performances can be enjoyed. In addition to those historical sites, Sichuan boasts stunning natural landscape and distinctive gourmet food, as well as the cute giant pandas, all promising an unforgettable journey. Tips There are many intercity trains between Chengdu and Guanghan, which takes about half an hour one way. Many tourist attractions in Chengdu offer bus services to the Sanxingdui Museum.