Politicization of virus fuels rise in hate crimes China Daily editorial
2021/4/1 13:33
Tianjin will provide coronavirus vaccines starting on Thursday for foreigners aged  and above in the city who can make appointments through their employers or designated institutions, local authorities said. The appointment is open to foreigners who work, study or otherwise live in Tianjin. The vaccination is voluntary. Inactivated vaccines will be used, and two doses are required within two to four weeks. Vaccine type may vary according to type and supply in the market, they said. Those who have joined Chinas social medical insurance can get the vaccination free of charge by presenting an insurance document at the vaccination site. Those who have not should pay by themselves. After making an appointment, foreigners should receive their vaccinations at the arranged time and site with their passports or other identity documents and their valid stay or residence permits. Vaccination sites are set up in all districts of Tianjin. Foreigners should report their health condition, history of allergies, illnesses or abnormal reactions to any vaccine, so that the doctors can decide whether they should take the shot. A personal responsibility statement for all risks associated with vaccination and a form of informed consent needs to be signed before vaccination. Those who get a shot are asked to stay at the vaccination site for  minutes for observation and to avoid contacting any known and common allergens a week afterward. It is suggested they seek medical treatment and report to vaccination sites if they have any abnormal reaction, such as fever. Wearing masks, keeping social distance, washing hands frequently and other measures continue to be required after receiving the vaccine. Gu Qing, director of Tianjin Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, said Tianjin plans to finish vaccinating its . million people aged  to  by the end of April  more than  percent of the citys population. He added that the supply of vaccines in Tianjin is sufficient.