Chinese vaccines help global COVID fight
2021/10/27 9:11
Staff members transport cargos containing Sinovac vaccines in Pasay City, the Philippines on Oct , . China donated another batch of Sinovac CoronaVac vaccines to the Philippines on Sunday to support the countrys COVID vaccination campaign.  China has provided over . billion doses of its COVID vaccines to  countries and four international organizations this year, playing a significant role in reining in the virus and advancing global collaboration, said Luo Zhaohui, chairman of the China International Development Cooperation Agency. The country has also delivered large amounts of antivirus materials, such as protective clothing, masks and respirators, to  countries and  international organizations, Luo added. He said that during the pandemic, China has launched the longest and the most extensive emergency humanitarian aid initiative since the founding of the Peoples Republic of China in . Luo said with Chinas COVID foreign aid efforts targeting neighboring countries, it has prioritized their emergency situations, streamlining procedures to answer their demands. He said that when the Delta variant caused serious virus flareups in South Asian and Southeast Asian countries in late April, the country promptly rolled out a new program to send antivirus materials to Nepal, Afghanistan, Laos, Cambodia, Myanmar and Sri Lanka. China has managed to overcome tight supplies and production capacity constraints, according to Luo. Within a few days, we had arranged and dispatched a medical expert team to Laos and sent medical supplies to Nepal, he said. In addition, China has held over , video conferences to share its knowledge about fighting the outbreak, has dispatched more than  expert health teams and has established an inventory for stocks of medical supplies planned for South Asia. More than  million doses of vaccines were given to neighboring countries as donations, he added. Because China has accumulated experiences in battling the virus and winning time for the world to combat the pandemic, many neighboring countries are eagerly anticipating assistance from China and pinning their hopes on us, Luo said. We did not let them down, he said, adding that Chinas assistance had resulted in outstanding and direct benefits. Since last year, Ruili, a city in Yunnan province bordering Myanmar, was locked down three times due to new outbreaks. The circumstances prompted China to cooperate with and supply vaccines and antivirus materials to northern regions of Myanmar, according to Luo. He said the goal is to strengthen disease prevention efforts along the borders and help contain local outbreaks in Myanmar while preventing imported infections in China. Chinas selfless foreign assistance stands in stark contrast to the aloofness of some other large countries, he added. Zhou Liujun, vicechairman of the cooperation agency, said that since the pandemic broke out, China has delivered more than  batches of testing kits, respirators and medical supplies to  African countries and the African Union, and it has dispatched expert medical teams to  African countries. China has also set up nearly  foreign aid projects to bolster economic recovery in Africa. Nearly , Chinese workers have manned their positions despite the raging virus, he added. In the meantime, a new Chinafunded headquarters for the African Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in Ethiopia began construction late last year. In addition, a maternity and child healthcare hospital in Senegal and an infectious disease department building at a hospital in Mauritaniaboth funded by Chinahave been handed over to local authorities and put into use, he added. An increasing number of countries and people are receiving Chinadeveloped vaccines, said Deng Boqing, vicechairman of the agency. He said the expanding vaccinations have fully attested to domestic vaccines safety and efficacy, on top of growing clinical evidence. Domestic vaccines that are donated or sold overseas have played an active role in building herd immunity across the world, he added. Li Hongyang contributed to this story.