Foreigners in Tianjin invited to get vaccine
2021/4/1 10:16
Migrant children are crammed into a Department of Homeland Security holding facility in Donna, Texas, on Tuesday. DARIO LOPEZMILLSAP DONNA, TexasMore than  migrant children were packed into plasticwalled rooms built for  people, sitting inches apart on mats with foil blankets on Tuesday at the largest US Customs and Border Protection holding facility for unaccompanied children. The CBPs main child processing center, a compound of white tents in Texas Rio Grande Valley, held over , migrants. More than , of them were children who traveled to the USMexico border alone. The rest of the migrants being housed were families. The facility, designed for  people under guidelines from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention during the coronavirus pandemic, has had to adapt amid a spike in families and unaccompanied children crossing the border into the US. The US government allowed journalists to see conditions for the first time since the facility opened on Feb . It was a grim picture. A squaremeter space had been divided into several rooms for  children each under CDC guidelines, each separated by thick plastic walls instead of the chainlink fence used by previous administrations. Despite the health recommendations, one of the pods held nearly  kids, another nearly  and others had just above . Everyone wore masks, but COVID tests are not done unless they show symptoms. Doors to the rooms were open for free movement but there was little room to roam and no one to play games. Most children just sat on the ground close together, chatting quietly. Some were wrapped in foil blankets. Lights are dimmed at night. Separated by age Children, most of them between  and , are separated by age. Families occupied a separate pod that was less crowded than the jampacked rooms for older children. Im a Border Patrol agent. I didnt sign up for this, Oscar Escamilla, acting executive officer of the Border Patrols Rio Grande Valley sector, said while looking at the younger kids. Children are processed in the tent facility in the town of Donna before being taken to longerterm care facilities run by US Health and Human Services and then placed with a family member, relative, or sponsor. About two dozen of some  children being transferred to HHS midday tested positive for COVID, the only time they are tested. Escamilla said the overall positivity rate at the Donna facility was about  percent. More than , kids have been at the facility for more than  hours, including  for more than  days. About  to  children enter the Donna facility daily and far fewer leave, a lopsided difference Escamilla said was leading to more crowded conditions. It held as many as , migrants. Several hundred kids and teenagers are crossing the border daily, most fleeing violence, poverty or the effects of natural disasters in Central America. A top US border official said on Tuesday that he expects more than  million migrants will arrive at the USMexico border this year, a sign of a growing humanitarian challenge for US President Joe Biden on the southwest border. Agencies via Xinhua