Birx says COVID death toll in US would have been mitigated with earlier action
2021/4/1 0:00
DONNA, TexasMore than  migrant children were packed into plasticwalled rooms built for  people, sitting centimeters apart on mats with foil blankets on Tuesday at the largest United States Customs and Border Protection holding facility for unaccompanied children. The CBPs main child processing center, a compound of white tents in Texas Rio Grande Valley, held over , migrants. More than , of them were children who traveled to the USMexico border alone. The rest of the migrants were being housed were families. The facility, designed for  people under guidelines from the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention during the coronavirus pandemic, has had to adapt amid a spike in families and unaccompanied children crossing into the US. The Biden administration allowed journalists to see conditions for the first time since the facility opened on Feb . It was a grim picture. A squaremeter space had been divided into several rooms for  children each under CDC guidelines, each separated by thick plastic walls instead of the chainlink fence used by previous administrations. Despite the health recommendations, one of the pods held nearly  kids, another nearly  and others had just above . Everyone wore masks, but COVID tests are not done unless symptoms appear. Doors to the rooms were open for free movement but there was little room to roam or play games. Most children just sat on the ground close together, chatting quietly. Some were wrapped in foil blankets. Lights are dimmed at night. Children, most of whom are between  and , are separated by age. Families occupied a separate pod that was less crowded than the rooms for older children. Im a Border Patrol agent. I didnt sign up for this, Oscar Escamilla, acting executive officer of the Border Patrols Rio Grande Valley sector, said while looking at the younger kids. Children are processed in the tent facility in the town of Donna before being taken to longerterm care facilities run by US Health and Human Services and then placed with a family member, relative or sponsor. About two dozen of some  children being transferred to the HHS at midday on Tuesday tested positive for COVID, the only time they are all tested. Escamilla said the overall positive rate at the Donna facility was about  percent. More than , kids have been at the facility for more than  hours, including  for more than  days. One child had been there  days. The average stay was  hours. About  to  children enter the Donna facility daily and far fewer leave, a lopsided difference that Escamilla said was leading to more crowded conditions. It has held as many as , migrants. Several hundred kids and teenagers are crossing the border daily, most fleeing violence, poverty or the effects of natural disasters in Central America.