White House virus expert breaks with Trump on turn
2021/4/1 0:00
Rising numbers of visitors are heading to Sanxingdui Museum in Guanghan, Sichuan province, despite the COVID pandemic. Luo Shan, a young receptionist at the venue, is frequently asked by earlymorning arrivals why they cannot find a guard to show them around. The museum employs some guides, but they have been unable to cope with the sudden influx of visitors, Luo said. On Saturday, more than , people visited the museum, over four times the number on a typical weekend. Ticket sales reached , yuan ,, the secondhighest daily total since it opened in . The surge in visitors was triggered by a live broadcast of relics excavated from six newly discovered sacrificial pits at the Sanxingdui Ruins site. The transmission aired on China Central Television for three days from March . At the site, more than  artifacts, including gold masks, bronze items, ivory, jade and textiles, have been unearthed from the pits, which are , to , years old. The broadcast fueled visitors interest in numerous artifacts unearthed earlier at the site, which are on display at the museum. Situated  kilometers north of Chengdu, capital of Sichuan, the site covers  square kilometers and contains the ruins of an ancient city, sacrificial pits, residential quarters and tombs. Scholars believe the site was established between , and , years ago, and the archaeological discoveries show that it was a highly developed and prosperous cultural hub in ancient times. Chen Xiaodan, a leading archaeologist in Chengdu who took part in excavations at the site in the s, said it was discovered by accident, adding that it seemed to appear from nowhere. In , Yan Daocheng, a villager in Guanghan, unearthed a pit full of jade and stone artifacts while repairing a sewage ditch at the side of his house. The artifacts quickly became known among antique dealers as The Jadeware of Guanghan. The popularity of the jade, in turn, attracted archaeologists attention, Chen said. In , an archaeological team headed by David Crockett Graham, who came from the United States and was curator of the West China Union University museum in Chengdu, headed to the site to carry out the first formal excavation work. From the s onward, many archaeologists conducted excavations at the location, but all of them were in vain, as no significant discoveries were made. The breakthrough came in the s. The remains of large palaces and parts of the eastern, western and southern city walls were found at the site in , followed two years later by the discovery of two large sacrificial pits. The findings confirmed that the site housed the ruins of an ancient city that was the political, economic and cultural center of the Shu Kingdom. In ancient times, Sichuan was known as Shu. Convincing proof The site is viewed as one of the most important archaeological discoveries made in China during the th century. Chen said that before the excavation work was carried out, it was thought that Sichuan had a ,year history. Thanks to this work, it is now believed that civilization came to Sichuan , years ago. Duan Yu, a historian with the Sichuan Provincial Academy of Social Sciences, said the Sanxingdui site, located on the upper reaches of the Yangtze River, is also convincing proof that the origins of Chinese civilization are diverse, as it scotches theories that the Yellow River was the sole origin. The Sanxingdui Museum, located alongside the tranquil Yazi River, draws visitors from different parts of the world, who are greeted by the sight of large bronze masks and bronze human heads. The most grotesque and aweinspiring mask, which is  centimeters wide and  cm high, features protruding eyes. The eyes are slanted and sufficiently elongated to accommodate two cylindrical eyeballs, which protrude  cm in a manner of extreme exaggeration. The two ears are fully outstretched and have tips shaped like pointed fans. Efforts are being made to confirm that the image is that of the Shu peoples ancestor, Can Cong. According to written records in Chinese literature, a series of dynastic courts rose and fell during the Shu Kingdom, including those founded by ethnic leaders from the Can Cong, Bo Guan and Kai Ming clans. The Can Cong clan was the oldest to establish a court in the Shu Kingdom. According to one Chinese annal, Its king had protruding eyes and he was the first proclaimed king in the kingdoms history. According to researchers, an odd appearance, such as that featured on the mask, would have indicated to the Shu people a person holding an illustrious position. The numerous bronze sculptures at the Sanxingdui Museum include an impressive statue of a barefoot man wearing anklets, his hands clenched. The figure is  cm high, while the entire statue, which is thought to represent a king from the Shu Kingdom, is nearly  cm tall, including the base. More than , years old, the statue is crowned with a sun motif and boasts three layers of tight, shortsleeved bronze clothing decorated with a dragon pattern and overlaid with a checked ribbon. Huang Nengfu, the late professor of arts and design at Tsinghua University in Beijing, who was an eminent researcher of Chinese clothing from different dynasties, considered the garment to be the oldest dragon robe in existence in China. He also thought that the pattern featured renowned Shu embroidery. According to Wang Yuqing, a Chinese clothing historian based in Taiwan, the garment changed the traditional view that Shu embroidery originated in the midQing Dynasty . Instead, it shows that it comes from the Shang Dynasty c. th centuryth century BC. A garment company in Beijing has produced a silk robe to match that adorning statue of the barefoot man in anklets. A ceremony to mark completion of the robe, which is on display at the Chengdu Shu Brocade and Embroidery Museum, was held in the Great Hall of the People in the Chinese capital in . Gold items on display at the Sanxingdui Museum, including a cane, masks and gold leaf decorations in the shape of a tiger and a fish, are known for their quality and diversity. Ingenious and exquisite craftsmanship requiring goldprocessing techniques such as pounding, molding, welding and chiseling, went into making the items, which showcase the highest level of gold smelting and processing technology in Chinas early history. Wooden core The artifacts on view at the museum are made from a gold and copper alloy, with gold accounting for  percent of their composition. The cane, which is  cm long, . cm in diameter and weighs about  grams, consists of a wooden core, around which is wrapped pounded gold leaf. The wood has decayed, leaving only residue, but the gold leaf remains intact. The design features two profiles, each of a sorcerers head with a fivepoint crown, wearing triangular earrings and sporting broad smiles. There are also identical groups of decorative patterns, each featuring of a pair of birds and fish, backtoback. An arrow overlaps the birds necks and fish heads. The majority of researchers think a cane was an important item in the ancient Shu kings regalia, symbolizing his political authority and divine power under the rule of theocracy. Among ancient cultures in Egypt, Babylon, Greece and western Asia, a cane was commonly regarded as the symbol of the highest state power. Some scholars speculate that the gold cane from the Sanxingdui site may have originated from northeast or western Asia and resulted from cultural exchanges between two civilizations. It was unearthed at the site in  after the Sichuan Provincial Archaeological Team took action to stop a local brick factory digging up the area. Chen, the archaeologist who led the excavation team at the site, said that after the cane was found, he thought that it was made from gold, but he told onlookers it was copper, in case anybody tried to make off with it. In response to a request from the team, the Guanghan county government sent  soldiers to guard the site where the cane was found. The poor state of the artifacts on display at the Sanxingdui Museum, and their burial conditions, indicate that they had been intentionally burned or destroyed. A large fire appears to have caused the items to become charred, ruptured, disfigured, blistered or even to have completely melted. According to researchers, it was common practice to set sacrificial offerings ablaze in ancient China. The site where the two large sacrificial pits were unearthed in  lies just . kilometers west of the Sanxingdui Museum. Chen said most of the key exhibits at the museum come from the two pits. Ning Guoxia contributed to the story. huangzhilingchinadaily.com.cn An archaeologist checks ivory artifacts at the Sanxingdui Ruins site in Guanghan, Sichuan province. SHEN BOHANXINHUA Archaeologists work in one of the pits at the site. MA DAFOR CHINA DAILY A statue of a barefoot man and a bronze mask are among the artifacts on display at the Sanxingdui Museum. HUANG LERANFOR CHINA DAILY A statue of a barefoot man and a bronze mask are among the artifacts on display at the Sanxingdui Museum. HUANG LERANFOR CHINA DAILY A gold cane features among the exhibits at the museum. HUANG LERANFOR CHINA DAILY A gold cane features among the exhibits at the museum. HUANG LERANFOR CHINA DAILY Archaeologists unearth a gold mask at the Sanxingdui Ruins site. MA DAFOR CHINA DAILY A birdseye view of the site. CHINA DAILY