Museum and gallery visits down  percent
2021/3/31 9:46
A woman wearing a face mask walks past the glass pyramid of the Louvre museum closed as part of COVID restrictions measures to fight the coronavirus disease outbreak in France, January , .  Attendance at the worlds  mostvisited art museums plummeted by  percent last year, down from  million in  to just  million, as the novel coronavirus pandemic forced closures. An annual survey by the Art Newspaper usually highlights museums that did well and the popular exhibitions, but its latest edition, published on Tuesday, focused on how visitor numbers and revenues have been ravaged by closures and restrictions. The Art Newspaper noted that, on average, museums worldwide were shut for an extra  days last year, adding up to , days in total, which it said was more than a centurys worth of visits missed. Topping the list of the worlds most visited museums is the Louvre in Paris, which counted . million through its doors, despite a  percent dip and reported losses of  million euros  million. The Louvre was helped in large part by its onceinalifetime Leonardo exhibition, which closed in February. It drew more than , visitors a day, making it the museums mostvisited show ever. The French capitals three major art museums  the Louvre, Centre Pompidou and Musee dOrsay  saw a combined  percent drop in attendance, down to . million from . million in . The Art Newspaper said that in an ordinary year, more than nine million visitors jostle for position in front of Mona Lisa or Delacroixs Liberty Leading the People at the Louvre. Beijings National Museum of China is the second most popular museum in the survey with . million visitors. The museum closed for three months from Jan , and when it reopened, its maximum capacity was reduced by  percent  from a potential , to , visitors per day, which was gradually eased to , per day by August. Third in the table is Londons Tate Modern, with . million attending. Museums in the United Kingdom were closed for more than half of the year, and the Tate Modern reported that it lost  million pounds  million in revenue. The British Museum was closed on more days than the Tate Modern, and so lost its UK top spot, held for nine out of the last  years. It was fifth in the global list, with visitor numbers down  percent to . million. Other European institutions high on the list included Italys Vatican Museums in fourth, with . million visitors, and Madrids Reina Sofia, which was closed for only  days and drew . million, in sixth. Alison Cole, editor of the Art Newspaper, was quoted in The Guardian saying the impact of the pandemic had been disastrous. While there is happy anticipation of a May  reopening date in the UK, reduced capacity due to COVID measures and a dearth of tourists mean that most large museums are looking at four years until they get back to prepandemic health.