Health chief frets over impending doom in US
2021/3/31 9:21
A volunteer helps to fix a womans mask while distributing fresh produce during a popup food pantry at St. Ann and the Holy Trinity Church in Brooklyn, New York on March , .  US President Joe Biden on Monday called on local officials to keep or reinstate mask requirements and pause reopenings of their economies as the head of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, or CDC, said she has a sense of impending doom because of the rising number of daily coronavirus cases, hospitalizations and the COVID death rate. If we let our guard down now, we could see a virus getting worse, not better. Reinstate the mandate if you let it down, he said, calling it a patriotic duty that is crucial to the nations fight against the disease. Biden spoke a few hours after CDC Director Rochelle Walensky described a recurring feeling I have of impending doom as infections once again are on the rise. She said at a White House briefing daily infections are up  percent from a week ago, hospitalizations are again rising, and deaths, a lagging indicator, averaged nearly , per day last week after four consecutive days below . Walensky also expressed concern about increasing travel, saying US citizens should limit trips to essential occasions. The pace of vaccinations is on the rise. The CDC reported three straight days of more than  million vaccine doses administered, including a record of nearly . million shots on Saturday. Biden said on Monday that  percent of US adults will be eligible for COVID vaccines by April , and vaccination sites would be within  kilometers of an individuals home. Despite vaccinations going up, the number of new infections in New Jersey increased by  percent in more than a month, to about , new cases every seven days. In New York, daily cases have averaged about , people per week since midFebruary. The country has so far reported ,, confirmed cases and , deaths since the start of the outbreak, according to a tally kept by Johns Hopkins University. In neighboring Canada, the government is suspending the use of the OxfordAstraZeneca vaccine for people under the age of  following concerns it may be linked to rare blood clots. Safety concerns The National Advisory Committee on Immunization recommended the pause for safety reasons. The Canadian provinces, which administer health in the country, announced the suspensions on Monday. The AstraZeneca shot, which has been authorized in more than  countries, is a pillar of a UNbacked project known as COVAX that aims to get COVID vaccines to countries in need. Several Asian countries scrambled to find alternative sources for inoculations on Tuesday after export restrictions by manufacturer India left the global vaccine sharing program short of supplies. South Korea, Indonesia and the Philippines are among countries to be hit by shipment delays to vaccines they have been promised under the COVAX program. Our planned increase in daily vaccinations will be affected, Carlito Galvez, the vaccination chief in the Philippines, told reporters. India, one of worlds biggest vaccine makers, put a temporary hold on exports of AstraZenecas vaccine being manufactured by the Serum Institute of India, as officials focus on meeting rising domestic demand. The Serum Institute was due to deliver  million vaccine doses to COVAX over March and April. While it was not immediately clear how many would be diverted for domestic use, program officials warned shipment delays were inevitable. Minlu Zhang in New York and agencies contributed to this story.