Livelihoods hinge on green recovery
2021-11-24 07:05
PhotoIC    Climate change may be an abstract issue for many, but environmental anthropologist Serina Abdul Rahman points out that this is far from the case with a fishing community in the southern Malaysian state of Johor. Serina said the fisherfolk of the area are typical of the communities across the world now affected by erratic weather patterns that threaten their livelihoods. Serina, a visiting fellow at the ISEASYusof Ishak Institute in Singapore, works with fishermen in Johor and has seen firsthand how stronger typhoons and rising sea levels have brought home the crisis for people dependent on the ocean for their survival. Declining fish catches are now their immediate concern. In the past, some of these changes could be assumed to be the result of coastal development, she said. But in , this does not apply as everything had ground to a halt due to COVID. Yet we see a drastic reduction in fish catch. Serina said this is why it is incredibly important to promote a green recovery from the pandemic for economies to ensure sustainability and protect livelihoods. As Asian nations slowly recover from the pandemic, conducting mass vaccinations and reopening their economies, it is important for policymakers to include climate adaptation and mitigation measures in their policy planning, analysts said. Decarbonization of the economy was a key theme at recent highlevel talks in the region. At the AsiaPacific Economic Cooperation meeting hosted by New Zealand, the leaders summit ended on Nov  with a declaration acknowledging the need for urgent and concrete action to transition to a climateresilient future global economy. Chinese President Xi Jinping said on Nov  at the APEC CEO Summit that China will advance green transition and contribute to ecological conservation in the AsiaPacific region. The country plans to hit peak carbon dioxide emissions before  and achieve carbon neutrality before . The COVID pandemic has highlighted the need to urgently reorganize society toward one that is both ecologically sustainable and socially just, said Cesar Carlito Baclagon, regional finance campaigner at .org, an international environmental group. Billions affected The United Nations Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific said in its AsiaPacific Disaster Report  that over the past  years, natural hazards in the region have affected . billion people and killed more than  million. Saleemul Huq, director of the International Centre for Climate Change and Development, a think tank in Bangladesh, said a climateresilient economic rebound is important because Asia is one of the regions that are most vulnerable to climate change, and it is also among the worlds biggest emitters of greenhouse gases. He said Bangladesh is taking adaptation and building resilience as a major pathway. Saleemul cited a decision by Bangladeshs energy ministry to cancel plans to build  coalfired power plants and the nations plans to develop wind power plants. Other Asian countries are likewise shifting to renewables and gradually reducing their use of fossil fuel to reduce emissions and fulfill their commitments under the Paris Agreement. Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi said his nation will achieve netzero emissions by  and that renewable energy sources will account for about half the countrys power generation by . South Korean President Moon Jaein said the country will end coalfired power generation by . South Korea also joined the Global Methane Pledge at the COP  climate summit, a global pact to cut methane emissions by more than  percent by  from  levels. Indonesia will stop building coalfired power plants after  and is set to impose a carbon tax in . President Joko Widodo said Indonesia is rehabilitating , hectares of mangrove forests until . Baclagon said the response to the climate crisis demands swift and unprecedented action not only from national governments but also from the international community. The recently concluded COP  has resulted in agreements that show only incremental steps forward rather than the monumental leaps needed to ensure a livable planet for all, he said. This is where intergovernmental forums like the APEC could help bridge the gaps for insubstantial outcomes that were achieved during COP . Yang Han and Xu Weiwei in Hong Kong contributed to this story.