Rich vs poor nations The Haves get the vaccine while Havenots wait in agony for help
2021-11-23 15:48
A nurse prepares to administer the AstraZenecaOxford COVID vaccine under the COVAX scheme at the Eka Kotebe General Hospital in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, on March , . PhotoAgencies    The United States and other wealthy nations are called to look in the mirror as a stark contrast emerges between rich and poor countries in terms of the number of people who have received at least one shot of the COVID vaccine, according to an opinion piece published by the Washington Post on Monday. Only five percent of eligible people in lowincome countries have received at least one shot of the COVID vaccine, while the number in highincome and uppermiddleincome nations is  percent, and in lower to middleincome countries  percent, said the article. According to the Posts Editorial Board, to date, with the help of the COVAX facility, which is created to ensure equitable distribution of vaccines,  million doses have been delivered to  countries, most of it to the poorer nations. Thats certainly millions of people helped, but it has been slower than expected, and the wait is agonizing, commented the article. An early target for COVAX was to acquire and distribute  billion doses by the end of this year. The COVAX experience has exposed how the haves took care of themselves, and the havenots have been forced to wait. The newspaper thinks that a lack of continuing funds of COVAX contributed to the lag, adding the first lesson learned is in the future, some kind of contingent funds, ready to go early in a crisis, would be a huge headstart. Another lesson is that a global network of sustainable, quality vaccine manufacturing facilities is essential to fight a pandemic, but it does not yet exist. With the abovementioned lessons drawn from the current pandemic, countries are called to renew their efforts to prepare a rescue ship before the storm financing, factories and knowhow poised to go at a moments notice.