WHO calls for timeout on vaccine booster shots
2021-08-05 11:23
World Health Organization WHO Director General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus speaks on the sidelines of the opening of the th World Health Assembly at the WHO headquarters, in Geneva, Switzerland, May , . PhotoAgencies    The head of the World Health Organization WHO on Wednesday called for a moratorium on COVID vaccine booster shots until at least the end of September to help ensure that vaccine doses are available in countries where few people have received their first shots. The call for a moratorium by WHO DirectorGeneral Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus comes as countries deliberate the need for boosters to combat the fastspreading Delta variant of the coronavirus. I understand the concern of all governments to protect their people from the Delta variant. But we cannot accept countries that have already used most of the global supply of vaccines using even more of it, Tedros said. He said richer countries have administered about  doses of coronavirus vaccines for every  people on average in May and that number has since doubled, while lowincome countries with short supplies have provided only about . doses per  people due to lack of supply. We need an urgent reversal from the majority of vaccines going to highincome countries to the majority going to lowincome countries, Tedros said. WHO officials say the science is unproven about whether giving booster shots to people who have already received two vaccine doses is effective in preventing the spread of the coronavirus. Top US health officials also have said there isnt yet enough data to support booster shots, even for the elderly and immunocompromised, though Israel is now recommending them for those groups. The US in July signed a deal with Pfizer Inc and German partner BioNTech to buy  million additional doses of the companies COVID vaccine to help with pediatric vaccination as well as possible booster shots. The Food and Drug Administration FDA reportedly is aiming to grant full approval to Pfizers COVID vaccine by early next month. The FDA announced earlier this summer that it planned to approve the Pfizer drug by January of next year, but the agencys internal target date is Labor Day, The New York Times reported Wednesday, citing unnamed people familiar with the agencys decisionmaking process. Pfizer and Moderna have filed initial paperwork for full approval. Only Pfizer has submitted all the necessary information to the FDA, according to the company. Johnson  Johnson says it plans to file for full approval later this year. Full approval might inspire more confidence in COVID vaccines and encourage some vaccinehesitant individuals to get inoculated. But a Kaiser Family Foundation poll released Wednesday showed more unvaccinated adults in the US view the coronavirus vaccine as a greater risk to their health than the disease caused by the virus itself. The poll showed just more than half of unvaccinated adults   percent  said they believed getting vaccinated posed a bigger risk to their health than getting infected with the coronavirus. In contrast, an overwhelming majority   percent  of vaccinated adults said that getting infected with COVID is a bigger risk to their health than the vaccine, the survey from July  to July  found. The majority of unvaccinated adults   percent  also said they thought the news media had generally exaggerated the seriousness of the pandemic, compared with  percent of vaccinated adults. The vaccine is plentiful in the US, but vaccine hesitancy remains a serious concern as COVID infections are driven by the highly contagious Delta variant and the vast majority of infections and hospitalizations are among the unvaccinated. More than  percent of new coronavirus infections across the US are from the Delta variant, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention CDC. Full authorization also is expected to see more companies mandate that their workers be vaccinated. Many employers and schools in the US have cited the emergency use authorization as a legal hurdle to issuing vaccine requirements, meaning the full authorization will likely spark more mandates. Some US airlines are requiring vaccines for new hires but not existing staff. Manufacturing giants such as General Electric Co , Caterpillar Inc and the Big Three US automakers have said they arent mandating vaccines. On Tuesday, GM and its rivals decided Tuesday to reinstate maskwearing across their workforces after discussions with a joint task force of the United Auto Workers union. Wed like to see it approved as fast as humanly possible, so we can really go back to just the more normal experience, said Jim Malatras, chancellor of the State University of New York system, which serves , students. He told The Wall Street Journal that under guidance from the state, he cant impose a vaccine mandate for students until the shots are granted full approval. For now, the school is requiring vaccines or weekly testing. On Wednesday, the New York International Auto Show was canceled because of the rise in COVID cases caused by the Delta variant. The show was scheduled to run from Aug  to Aug  at the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center. Mark Schienberg, the shows president, said auto show organizers are planning for a return to its regular spring schedule in April . The shows organizers, in canceling this years show, also cited increased measures by local officials to stop the variants spread. The sevenday average number of confirmed and probable daily coronavirus cases now exceeds , in New York City, according to city data on Wednesday. On Wednesday, the sevenday average number of hospitalizations in the city was , after hovering between  and  since the start of June, city data show. It was over  in January and February of this year.