Full Text Remarks by Xi at th APEC Economic Leaders Meeting
2021-11-12 21:43
President Xi Jinping on Friday addressed the th AsiaPacific Economic Cooperation Economic Leaders Meeting via video link.The following is the translation of the full text of the speech.Opening a New Chapter TogetherFor AsiaPacific Economic CooperationRemarks by H.E. Xi JinpingPresident of the Peoples Republic of ChinaAt the th APEC Economic Leaders Meeting November The Right Honorable Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern,Dear Colleagues,It is a great pleasure to meet you online. First of all, let me thank Prime Minister Ardern and the New Zealand government for their hard work in putting this meeting together. This session has chosen its theme to be Recovering from COVID to Build Prosperity for All Our People and Future Generations, which is of great significance.This year marks the th anniversary of Chinas joining of APEC. It has been three decades of deepening reform and openingup for China, and of broadening economic cooperation across the AsiaPacific. Indeed, the AsiaPacific region has become the most dynamic and promising economic powerhouse globally, staying at the forefront of world economic development, and making its positive contribution to global growth and to the wellbeing of people in the region.Last year, building on the progress toward the Bogor Goals, we adopted the Putrajaya Vision , reaffirming our original aspiration of bettering the lives of our people and envisioning an open, dynamic, resilient and peaceful AsiaPacific community. This year, we have jointly formulated its implementation plan. We shall keep up our good work to put the Vision into action, and endeavor to build an AsiaPacific community with a shared future featuring openness and inclusiveness, innovationdriven growth, greater connectivity, and mutually beneficial cooperation. To that end, I propose we focus our efforts on the following directions.First, advance antiCOVID cooperation and promote economic recovery. As we meet, the pandemic continues to pose a grave challenge and global economic recovery remains fragile and difficult. To defeat the pandemic and restore growth at an early date is a firstorder priority for APEC economies at the moment. We need to follow a sciencebased approach in pandemic response, deepen international cooperation, promote the research, development, production and fair distribution of vaccines, ensure their accessibility and affordability in developing countries, and close the immunization gap. China has announced that it would provide a total of two billion doses of vaccines to the world in the course of this year, and has so far provided over . billion doses, including donations to more than  countries. At the recent th G Summit, I proposed, on Chinas behalf, a Global Vaccine Cooperation Action Initiative. China has undertaken to offer three billion US dollars over the next three years to support COVID response and economic and social recovery in fellow developing countries. China welcomes APEC initiatives to facilitate the movement of essential goods and people in a safe manner, and will continue to provide support to the SubFund for APEC Cooperation on Combating COVID and Economic Recovery with a view to helping member economies recover and grow the economy.Second, foster an open AsiaPacific economy. Openness is the lifeline of AsiaPacific cooperation. We need to uphold open regionalism, follow the guidance of the APEC Vision  in advancing regional economic integration, and work for the early realization of a highstandard Free Trade Area of the AsiaPacific FTAAP. We need to practice true multilateralism, stick to dialogue rather than confrontation, inclusiveness rather than exclusion, and integration rather than decoupling, and be resolute in safeguarding the multilateral trading regime with the World Trade Organization WTO at its core. China supports the implementation of the Enhanced APEC Agenda for Structural Reform and the APEC Services Competitiveness Roadmap. We look forward to the entry into force of the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership RCEP on schedule next year, and we have applied for joining the Comprehensive and Progressive Agreement for TransPacific Partnership CPTPP.Third, promote innovationdriven development and the digital economy. Innovation is an important driving force that propels world development. We need to commit ourselves to innovationdriven development, harness the power of the digital economy as a new growth engine, and spread the fruits of digital technologies to more people in our region. We need to implement the APEC Internet and Digital Economy Roadmap in a full and balanced manner, and foster an open, fair, just and nondiscriminatory environment for innovation and the growth of productivity. We need to further develop the digital infrastructure, speed up digital transformation, strive to bridge the digital divide, and promote development of the digital economy in an allround way. China has put forward the initiative of Enhancing Implementation of APEC Connectivity Blueprint  in the Digital Era. We support stronger international cooperation on the digital economy, and have applied to join the Digital Economy Partnership Agreement DEPA.Fourth, pursue inclusive and sustainable development. We need to seek the harmonious coexistence between man and nature, actively respond to climate change, promote green and lowcarbon transition, and foster a community of all life on Earth. China will strive to peak carbon dioxide emissions before  and achieve carbon neutrality before , and supports developing countries in developing green and lowcarbon energies. And China will work with partner countries to advance highquality Belt and Road cooperation. We need to fully implement the UN  Agenda for Sustainable Development, and let the gains of development benefit more people across the world in a more equitable way. At this years UN General Assembly in September, I put forward a Global Development Initiative that aims at steering global development toward a new stage of balanced, coordinated and inclusive growth. The Initiative also holds great significance for sustainable development of the AsiaPacific region. Economic and technological cooperation is an important area of APEC cooperation. We need to step up input, make sure that developing members get real benefit from such cooperation, and keep injecting new dynamism into the development and prosperity of the AsiaPacific.Colleagues,This year marks the th anniversary of the founding of the Communist Party of China CPC. It is the CPCs unchanging goal to deliver a better life for the over . billion Chinese people and to promote peace and development for humanity. Now, China has started a new journey toward fully building a modern socialist country. China will unswervingly expand openingup, and share its development opportunities with APEC members and the wider world.There is a Maori proverb in New Zealand that says, Success is not ever that of an individual, but always that of a collective. China will work with all APEC members in building an AsiaPacific community with a shared future and jointly opening a new chapter for AsiaPacific economic cooperation.Thank you.