Ambassador forum on poverty elimination held in Yanan
2021-08-04 15:46
Chinas poverty elimination and rural revitalization strategy has offered a solution for similar issues around the world, a senior official said at the th Ambassadors Forum held in Yanan, Shaanxi province on August .The forum was held by the ChinaAfrica Institute, with a number of ambassadors from African countries taking the time to visit YananLi Xinfeng, executive head of the institute, said that Yanan used to be an extremely poor place. Its Yanans spirit and the leadership of the Communist Party of China that have helped people here to get rid of poverty and lead a more prosperous life. Meanwhile, China has actively cooperated with African countries to provide support for their own poverty elimination, he said.Liu Guijin, former Chinese ambassador to Zimbabwe and South Africa and the Chinese governments first special representative on African affairs, said he has gained a much deeper understanding of the Yanan spirit and Chinas poverty elimination after just a few days visit to several villages in Yanan.Its my second time in Yanan, the last time was in  when I was still the special representative on African affairs, Liu said. I have found a huge change here. It proves that the policies, especially taking targeted measures for poverty alleviation, are the core of the success. I believe we can share a lot of experience with our African friends, he said. Only if African countries gain their developments can the whole world develop. Otherwise, we wont be able to see world peace and global development.Several ambassadors of African countries to China attended the forum.Awale Ali Kullane, ambassador of the the Federal Republic of Somalia to China, said China is now the worlds largest exporting country and its economy is proliferating. It has completed one of the most ambitious poverty alleviation programs and is actively helping smaller economies stand up on their feet, he said. The African countries, particularly the people of Somalia, have a deep admiration and respect for China. It was China that supported us when we were going through our darkest times.China has won the battle against poverty, mass unemployment and transformed its majority agrarian society into one of the most technologically advanced countries in just three decades, Kullane added.During the COVID pandemic, the way China has supported us is unparalleled in recent history he said.According to him, China was the first country to make vaccine donations to Somalia. China chose friendship over business, and we recognize this with immense respect and gratitude, he said.Lu Hongyan contributed to the story