Shanghai reports first COVID case in six months
2021-08-03 14:47
Shanghai holds its th municipal media conference of COVID pandemic prevention and control on Tuesday. Photo by Zhou Wentingchinadaily.com.cn    A residential community in Shanghais Pudong district was announced as a COVID mediumrisk region on Tuesday following the emergence of a new case on Monday. This latest case is the citys first in six months. The patient is a yearold male who handles cargo flights for a foreign airline company at Pudong International Airport. He did not leave Shanghai in the last  days. Li Guohua, vicegovernor of Pudong district, said during a municipal media conference on Tuesday that the case is unlikely to be linked to those in other parts of the country. The disease prevention and control department is racing against time to conduct genetic sequencing of the virus that he contracted so as to determine if it is the Delta variant, said Wu Jinglei, director of the Shanghai Municipal Health Commission. The man was discovered to be infected after he underwent the usual nucleic acid tests that those working in highrisk positions are subjected to, the government said. Previous screenings, including those done on July  and July , turned out negative. As of  am on Tuesday,  close contacts of the case had been identified and put under hotel quarantine. All their initial nucleic acid tests returned negative. A total of  secondary close contacts of the case had also been identified and put under hotel quarantine. All their initial nucleic acid tests returned negative. In addition, , relevant individuals had been tested, with , of them showing negative results so far. Wu said that more than  million residents in the municipality with a permanent population of more than  million have received two doses of COVID vaccination as of Monday. The vaccination rate among those above  years old is  percent. Zhang Wenhong, leader of the Shanghai team of experts in the clinical treatment of novel coronavirus pneumonia cases, said the vaccination plan will be further expanded. Its not surprising that individuals working in highrisk positions may contract the virus when the pandemic is still going on in many parts of the world. No vaccine, including a COVID vaccine, guarantees  percent protection, said Zhang. But the fact that his coworkers and relevant contacts have tested negative demonstrates that widespread vaccination can largely reduce the speed of the virus spread.