Florida hospitals fill up with COVID patients
2021-08-03 10:52
Critical care workers insert an endotracheal tube into a coronavirus disease COVID positive patient in the intensive care unit ICU at Sarasota Memorial Hospital in Sarasota, Florida, February , . PhotoAgencies    Florida, which is experiencing its highest surge in coronavirus cases since the start of the pandemic, is also seeing its hospitals fill up, and some of the patients are younger. Hospitals around the state report having to put emergency room visitors believed to have COVID symptoms in beds in hallways. Medical staff also have reported a noticeable drop in the age of patients. The state, which is leading the US in per capita hospitalizations, recorded , new coronavirus cases on Saturday, breaking the previous record of ,, recorded July , , according to the Florida Hospital Association. The virus has a new target the unvaccinated and younger people, Mary Mayhew, Florida Hospital Association president and CEO, said in a statement. Healthy people from their teens to their s are now finding themselves in the hospital and on a ventilator. South Florida hospitals reported a rise in younger patients with COVID, with many of them needing intensive care and nearly all of whom arent vaccinated. Dr Marcos Mestre, vicepresident and chief medical officer at Nicklaus Childrens Hospital in Miami, said there were  patients with COVID on Friday, including six in the ICU and one who needed a ventilator. About half of the patients were under age , Mestre said, and the rest were older and eligible for the vaccine. On Sunday, the US Health and Human Services Department said that , people  including  children  were hospitalized in Florida with confirmed cases of COVID, The Associated Press reported. More than  percent of those patients arent fully vaccinated. A week ago, total COVID hospitalizations in Florida were ,. The US on Monday finally reached President Joe Bidens July  goal of getting at least one COVID shot into the arms of  percent of Americans about a month late, according to the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention CDC. The percentage not vaccinated stands at . percent of the eligible US population. Alabama and Mississippi are the only states to have fully vaccinated less than  percent of their residents. In New York City, Mayor Bill de Blasio stopped short of issuing a full mask mandate on Monday, instead strongly recommending that people wear masks inside all public indoor spaces regardless of vaccination status. We want to emphasize vaccinations, vaccinations. That is the whole ballgame, the mayor said during his morning news conference. His comments came amid rising coronavirus cases driven by the highly contagious Delta variant. The mayor said that the number of people at cityrun vaccination sites doubled on Saturday, after the city promised to give people a  prepaid debit card to get vaccinated. On Monday, there were long lines of people awaiting testing and vaccinations at several of the sites. Earlier, New York Governor Andrew Cuomo at a separate news conference urged localities to follow the CDC guidance last week to prioritize indoor masking for all. Cuomo was stripped of his pandemic powers in March, and after an underlying emergency declaration expired in late June, the governor said he could no longer reissue a statewide mask mandate without having the Legislature pass a law for it. Cuomo also announced that Metropolitan Transit Authority and Port Authority transit employees will be subject to a vaccine or weekly testing beginning on Labor Day, Sept . Cuomo said he would consider mandating vaccinations for schoolteachers and nursinghome employees if case counts increased. New Yorks hospitalizations have doubled, as cases have increased fourfold over the last month, Cuomo said. The sevenday average number of confirmed and probable daily coronavirus cases now exceeds , in New York City. That figure was less than  at the start of July and peaked at more than , in early January, according to city statistics. For the week of July , the infection rate in the state reflected  per , among fully vaccinated people, and  per , among unvaccinated people, Cuomo said. In California, seven Bay Area counties on Monday announced a return of indoor mask requirements, regardless of vaccination status. The public health offices in the counties of Alameda, Contra Costa, Marin, San Francisco, San Mateo, Santa Clara and Sonoma counties made the joint announcement. Sacramento, Los Angeles and Yolo counties already have made masks mandatory in indoor public settings, with few exceptions. The  counties have a combined population exceeding  million residents, almost half of the states entire population. US Senator Lindsey Graham, a Republican from South Carolina, announced Monday that he has tested positive for the coronavirus despite being vaccinated and has experienced flulike symptoms. Graham said that he now has only mild symptoms and is very glad he had been vaccinated because without vaccination I am certain I would not feel as well as I do now.