COVID origins SA scientist says no time for fingerpointing
2021-08-03 10:48
Thelma Modise, a member of the South African Police Service SAPS receives a dose of a coronavirus disease COVID vaccine as part of a vaccine rollout to over , SAPS members, in the township of Soweto, South Africa, July , . PhotoAgencies    Identifying the source of COVID is instrumental in understanding what to expect in the future, but the process must be scientifically rigorous, said South African epidemiologist Salim Abdool Karim in a recent interview with Chinese media. Karim urged not to politicize the scientific endeavor, cautioning that this is not a time for political posturing and fingerpointing. We need all those authorities, including those in China, to cooperate, he added during an interview on Chinese broadcaster Phoenix TV on July . Karim is the director of the Centre for the Aids Programme of Research in South Africa CAPRISA and was the South African governments top adviser on the pandemic having cochaired the ministerial advisory committee on COVID. Tracing the origins of the novel coronavirus needs to be done in a transparent way so that all the different possibilities are explored, the evidence is collected and the answers are obtained, the scientist told Phoenix TV. Its in everyones interest to get an answer that is scientifically credible. Since the early days of the pandemic, conspiracy theories and rumors about the origins of the virus have been swirling around. The World Health Organization WHO sent an international team of scientists to central Chinas Wuhan City looking for the origins of COVID in early  and concluded that a lab leak is extremely unlikely to have happened. Yet US President Joe Biden still ordered the Intelligence Community to look into the possibility of a lab leak. Though the WHO origintracing report said scientists should go on searching in other countries, the organization is considering going back to Wuhan for a secondphase study, which China has opposed citing possible political manipulation. No investigation has taken place in the US so far.