APEC kicks off virtual Economic Leaders Meeting focusing on COVID recovery, new vision
2021-11-12 19:28
New Zealand Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern opens the APEC CEO Summit in Wellington, New Zealand, Nov , . PhotoHandout via Agencies    WELLINGTON  The th AsiaPacific Economic Cooperation APEC Economic Leaders Meeting, under New Zealand Prime Minister Jacinda Arderns chairmanship, kicked off virtually on Friday night. The leaders will discuss the ongoing management of the COVID pandemic, further regional trade and economic cooperation between member economies, with a focus on trade outcomes that support the movement of vaccines and related medical supplies. APECs longterm work on macroeconomic policy and structural reform, as well as efforts to progress work on sustainability, inclusivity, and digital connectivity are high on the agenda. The leaders will finally build on the significant work undertaken during APEC  to agree on a joint declaration that further delivers on the years policy priorities against the global health and economic crisis. An implementation plan for the Putrajaya Vision , APECs most important deliverable for the year and a core focus for New Zealand as the host, is expected to be endorsed to guide APECs work for the next  years. As a longheld tradition of APEC meetings, the leaders will pose for a family photo wearing traditional Mori costumes. The meeting is being held at a challenging time when the COVID pandemic made a comeback through the Delta variant, with around  million cases and over  million deaths around the globe, according to the World Health Organization. While economic activities in the AsiaPacific region have rebounded and vaccination rates continue rising, the recovery from COVID in different countries, regions, sectors and groups remains uneven. APEC is a regional economic forum established in  to leverage the growing interdependence of the AsiaPacific. APECs  members aim to create greater prosperity for the people of the region by promoting balanced, inclusive, sustainable, innovative and secure growth by accelerating regional economic integration. APECs member economies are home to around  billion people, representing about half of global trade and  percent of the worlds total GDP. Thailand will take over as the chairman of next years APEC meetings.