Foreign officials, experts oppose politicizing COVID origin tracing
2021-08-02 17:02
This undated transmission electron microscope image shows SARSCoV, also known as novel coronavirus, the virus that causes COVID. PhotoAgencies    BEIJING  Political leaders and experts worldwide have strongly opposed politicizing the COVID origin tracing issue, saying that such a trend would deal a heavy blow to the global antipandemic efforts. Research into the origins of the virus is important from a scientific and global health policy perspective, and it should not be used as a smokescreen for geopolitical contestation that has nothing to do with ending the pandemic or understanding how to prevent future pandemics, said Lindiwe Zulu, a senior foreign relations official of South Africas governing party African National Congress, on Friday. COVID has killed many people and resulted in vaccine nationalism by highincome countries, Zulu said, urging countries to rebuild solidarity as this is the only way to effectively combat the spread and destruction of the virus. The one consistent thing weve heard from all countries has been lets not politicize the science, and the next thing that happens is the science is politicized, Mike Ryan, executive director of the World Health Organization WHO Health Emergencies Program, was quoted Friday by Sputnik as saying. So what we want to do for all parties, and everybody is calling for this, theres widespread agreement amongst all our member states, lets not politicize the process, he added. As the world struggles to combat the COVID pandemic, the blame game linking the virus to China has resurfaced, Sweba Unuki, a social affairs analyst in Dar es Salaam, said in a recent article published by The Citizen newspaper. Framing the virus as a lab creation originating from China impedes global efforts to end the suffering, the columnist said. Experts have also voiced concerns about the WHOs independence in the matters, saying that some WHO experts and researchers were under enormous pressure or even intimidated by the United States after they voiced support for the conclusions of the ChinaWHO joint study on COVID origins in the Chinese city of Wuhan. They said the United States was seeking to discredit the qualifications of the scientists involved in the study.