Fauci foresees more virus pain but not lockdowns
2021-08-02 10:10
Dr. Anthony Fauci, director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, speaks during a Senate Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions Committee hearing at the Dirksen Senate Office Building in Washington, DC, US, July , . PhotoAgencies    Dr Anthony Fauci cautioned Sunday that there will be more pain and suffering as coronavirus cases rise but he doesnt expect another round of lockdowns in the US because he believes enough people are vaccinated. Not enough to crush the outbreak, but I believe enough to not allow us to get into the situation we were in last winter, he said on the ABC News show This Week. The comments by Fauci, the chief White House medical adviser, follow a change in course last week by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention to recommend that vaccinated people wear masks indoors in parts of the US where the delta variant is pushing infection rates higher. So were looking, not, I believe, to lock down, but were looking to some pain and suffering in the future because were seeing the cases go up, which is the reason why we keep saying over and over again, the solution to this is get vaccinated and this would not be happening, said Fauci, who is also the director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases. With the CDC guidance switch, federal health officials have cited studies showing vaccinated people can spread the virus, called breakthrough infections. Although the vast majority cause mild or no symptoms, the research shows they can carry about the same amount of coronavirus as those who didnt take the vaccines. At least  staff members at two major San Francisco hospitals, most of them fully vaccinated, tested positive for the coronavirus this month, and most involved the Delta variant, The New York Times reported Saturday. About  to  percent of the more than  staff members infected at Zuckerberg San Francisco General Hospital were fully vaccinated, Dr Lukejohn Day, the hospitals chief medical officer, told the Times. The University of California, San Francisco Medical Center said Friday that  of its  infected staff members had been fully vaccinated. About  percent of Americans have received at least one dose of a vaccine, ranging from a high of  percent in Vermont to a low of  percent in Mississippi. The number of vaccinations administered, though, has started to rise nationally again. Florida now has one of the worst coronavirus outbreaks in the nation, based on hospitalizations and new cases per capita. The Southeast state on Sunday had , people hospitalized with confirmed COVID, according to data reported to the US Department of Health  Human Services. Federal health data released Saturday showed that Florida reported , new coronavirus cases, the states highest oneday total since the start of the pandemic. A day earlier, Florida reported , new cases. Florida Governor Ron DeSantis has blocked mask mandates in the states schools, saying parents should decide. He also has signed legislation banning county and local governments from initiating their own restrictions. The CDC comes in and says every single person in a school  students, teachers, staff have to be masked at all times. That is not consistent with the evidence. That is not datadriven, he said on Fox News on Saturday. I think if the CDC had its way, I think theyd probably have kids in masks indefinitely, he added. While hospitals in our state were filling up, DeSantis was shouting about Freedom over Faucism, said Dr Bernard Ashby, a cardiologist and leader of the Florida chapter of the Committee to Protect Health Care, told public radio station WLRN in Miami. A survey by The New York Times of data from  states shows that more than  million COVID vaccine doses have gone to waste since the nation began administering them in December. More than , doses have been destroyed in Georgia, officials there told the Times. Of the more than , doses wasted in New Jersey, nearly , were discarded in June, up from around , in April. In Ohio, providers reported that more than , doses were unusable, while around , doses in Maryland were not used, officials said. Among the reasons that the vaccines are wasted include breakage, storage and transportation issues, expiration, and doses prepared but not used after people didnt show up for appointments, the Times reported. Early on, it was kind of a crisis because people wanted it the vaccine and couldnt get it, and now its a crisis because weve got it and people dont want it, Dr Marcus Plescia, chief medical officer for the Association of State and Territorial Health Officials, told the newspaper. The Associated Press and Reuters contributed to this story.