Discrimination exposes US sordid human rights record
2021-07-31 08:52
Editors note Racial and religious discrimination is rampant in the US, but the administration uses myriad ploys to cover it up. Four experts share their views on the issue with China Daily. US invasion has devastated Iraq The United States bypassed the United Nations to invade Iraq in  and topple the Saddam Hussein government. The Iraq War, the Gulf War  and the  sanctions turned Iraq from a regional power into a failed state with a devastated economy. In , before the US invaded Iraq, the countrys per capita GDP was ,. According to Statista, the Iraq War has caused , civilian deaths, and Brown Universitys Costs of War Project found that as of , . million Iraqis had been internally displaced or forced to flee Iraq as refugees. The destruction of infrastructure facilities during the war robbed millions of Iraqi people of essential public services such as electricity and water supply, and healthcare. The war also tore the countrys social fabric, and robbed the Iraqi people of their national identity and divided them into religious sects and ethnic groups with rising dissension and enmity. And the rampant corruption that followed the USled invasion compromised public security. In fact, Iraqi President Barham Salih said, while announcing a draft bill to combat corruption recently, that Iraq had lost about  billion to corruption since . The US loot of Iraqi cultural relics and archival materials dealt a deadly blow to Iraqi culture. The rising SunniShia conflicts and geopolitical frictions have caused Iraqs economic and cultural decline, and ironically, after the USled invasion, terrorism has spread beyond the Middle East as antiUS sentiments have grown among Muslims around the world. The damage the US war has caused to Iraq and beyond is long term. So all peaceloving people should oppose the US hegemony. Zhu Quangang, an associate research fellow at the Institute of West Asian and African Studies, Chinese Academy of Social Sciences American Muslims face structural discrimination Since the Sept , , terrorist attacks, Muslims in the US have been facing rising discrimination, not least because of the implementation of new laws, including previous US president Donald Trumps Executive Order . American Muslims also face discrimination in the legal field. An Institute for Social Policy and Understanding report said, a significantly higher percentage of Muslimperceived perpetrators of violent plots  percent were prosecuted with severe legal charges than those not perceived to be Muslim  percent, and terrorismrelated charges can carry optional boosts to sentences for prosecutors to pursue if they argue a case was terrorism, which happens to  of  Muslimperceived cases compared with  of  nonMuslimperceived cases. Besides, the media has played a key role in spreading Islamophobia. The ISPU report also said, analysis of The New York Times and The Washington Post archives showed that in cases of violent ideological plots that were not carried out, Muslimperceived perpetrators received an average of  percent more media coverage than nonMuslimperceived perpetrators. Besides, doubts over Muslims patriotism have increased in the US. According to the ISPUs American Muslim Poll  last year,  percent of American Muslims said they had experienced religious discrimination. Over the past five years, Muslim experiences with religious discrimination have remained steady, ranging from  percent to  percent. And antiIslamic groups have spread Islamophobia among the academia, social media, religious leaders, and grassroots groups and politicians. Moreover, the number of Muslim refugees allowed into the US dropped to a historical low during Trumps presidencyfor example, the number of Syrian refugees allowed to enter the US declined from , in  to  in . Overall, the number of Muslim refugees allowed into the US fell by about  percent in . Movements such as Black Lives Matter and antiAsian discrimination reflect the growing racial frictions in the US. And though US President Joe Biden may be making efforts to reverse many of Trumps policies, racial discrimination wont end in the US unless the country undergoes a thorough socioracial transformation. Xu Jianying, a research fellow at the Institute of Chinese Borderland Studies, CASS and Yun Wenjie, a lecturer at the China Center for Special Economic Zone Research, Shenzhen University Racism is the original sin in US construction The number of black and Hispanic people who have died of COVID in the US is three times higher than white people. Yet the vaccination rate among black and Hispanic people is half that among white people. The pandemic and killing of George Floyd have further exposed the racial divide in the US. As for upward social mobility, minority community members can rise to become part of the socalled US elite only if they agree with the AngloProtestant culture, said political scientist Samuel Huntington, as the US needs a cultural core to help maintain a coherent nation. Racism and civilizational supremacy also influence the US foreign policy. To maintain its global leadership, the US has formed cliques based on race, religion, culture and civilization differences. And some politicians are using these civilization differences to build an antiChina alliance. The US is a society of immigrants. But the discriminatory immigration laws have increased the identity crisis of the new immigrants, especially religious minorities. Racism will continue in the US, because even if the socalled political correctness narrative helps sugar coat the racial problem, the US can hardly root out racial bias from its institutions. It will take the sustained efforts of US citizens to end racial discrimination in the country. Wang Congyue, associate research fellow at the Institute of American Studies, CASS The views dont necessarily reflect those of China Daily. If you have a specific expertise, or would like to share your thought about our stories, then send us your writings at opinionchinadaily.com.cn, and commentchinadaily.com.cn.