Taiwanrelated bill hurts US credibility
2021-07-30 17:25
Photo taken on July ,  from Xiangshan Mountain shows the Taipei  skyscraper in Taipei, Chinas Taiwan. PhotoXinhua    On Wednesday, the US Senate Committee on Foreign Relations passed a bill urging the secretary of state to develop a strategy to regain observer status for Taiwan in the World Health Organization. There is no telling what the senators had in mind when they passed that bill, but by doing so they have harmed the credibility of their own nation. As early as  years ago, China and the US clearly followed the oneChina principle in their joint communiqus. Since then, every US administration stresses that principle in its first diplomatic talks with China after taking office. By passing this Taiwanrelated bill, certain US senators mean to ruin their own nations credibility and weaken the reliability of their governments signature. It seems they so hate their own country they do not want it to be trusted in the world. But where Taiwans health affairs are concerned, the central government of China has sent a helping hand to the  million compatriots there by offering vaccines to curb the islands COVID pandemic. The ruling Democratic Progressive Party set obstacles to vaccines from the Chinese mainland, and their attempts to regain observer status in the WHO is nothing but a political ploy that comes at the cost of local peoples health. Another ineffectual ploy is the strategic dialogue held by US and Japanese lawmakers with their Taiwan counterparts, on which former Japanese prime minister Shinzo Abe talked about Chinas domestic affairs. The passing of that bill and that dialogue also sends encouragement to the secessionists on the island. Even though Taiwan is an inseparable part of China, actions like these indicate separatists might obtain support from outside for their activities. What support politicians in the US and Japan give to separatists in Taiwan will be in vain. China will be reunified, and there is no force that can prevent this historical trend from becoming reality. US and Japanese politicians must stop their wrongdoing, and separatists on Taiwan island must give up their daydreaming. Follow the writer on Twitter zzxang