WHO official says COVID vaccine deliveries to Africa intensified
2021-07-30 10:13
A medical worker gives a dose of AstraZenecas coronavirus disease vaccine to a man, at the Ruaraka Uhai Neema Hospital in Nairobi, Kenya, April , . PhotoAgencies    NAIROBI  The shipment of the COVID vaccine to Africa has accelerated, injecting fresh impetus in the continents quest to limit infections and fatalities arising from the virus, a World Health Organization WHO official said Thursday. Matshidiso Moeti, WHO Regional Director for Africa, said that nearly  million doses arrived in the continent last week, as plans to ramp up deliveries and inoculate  percent of the population by the end of this year gathers steam. I urge all countries with surplus doses to urgently share more in the spirit of lifesaving solidarity and enlightened selfinterest because no country is safe until all countries are safe, Moeti said in a statement. According to Moeti,  million COVID doses have already arrived in Africa and  million people or . percent of the continents population are fully immunized. She said Africa required  million doses to inoculate  percent of its population by the end of  even as multilateral initiatives plan to deliver the lifesaving commodity in large quantities in the coming weeks. Moeti said the COVAX facility will ship  million doses to the continent towards the end of this year while African Unions Africa Vaccine Acquisition Trust AVAT plans to deliver  million doses each month from September, to hit a target of  million by years end. She disclosed that the COVAX facility has clinched new deals with Chinas Sinopharm and Sinovac to rapidly supply  million additional doses to lowincome countries, a majority in Africa. Moeti said multilateral lenders like the World Bank are set to boost COVID vaccine supply to developing countries at a subsidized cost, adding that Africa will benefit from that arrangement. She said that vaccine donation from bilateral partners will help the continent plug a shortfall occasioned by global supply hiccups and revitalize action on the third wave of infections that has strained public health systems.