Britain urges US to scrap its travel ban
2021-07-30 09:21
Britains Transport Secretary Grant Shapps speaks during a virtual news conference, after a COBRA meeting that was called in response to increased travel restrictions amid the coronavirus disease COVID pandemic, at  Downing Street, in London, Britain, Dec , . PhotoAgencies    Washington not expected to change its closeddoor rule until September Britains announcement on Wednesday that it is to end quarantine requirements for vaccinated travelers from the United States came despite ongoing warnings from Washington against travel to the United Kingdom, and also a ban on arrivals in the United States from the UK, but was made in the hope of a reciprocal gesture from Washington. However, despite British transport minister Grant Shappss comments suggesting this, there has yet to be any response, which poses a question for US President Joe Bidens administration. Does it hold firm and risk upsetting a key ally, or change policy and cause ripples at home? Although there was a slight rise on Wednesday, before that, the UK saw COVID case numbers fall for seven days in a row, a move which the Daily Telegraph reports increased efforts by British diplomats in Washington to get the rules changed currently, the UK is on the US highest risklevel list, and arrivals from the country, as well as from much of Europe, China, South Africa, India and Brazil, are not permitted. News of the UK opening up to US travelers as from next week certainly had an instant impact on the travel industry, as Virgin Atlantics chief commercial officer Juha Jarvinen told Sky News on Thursday. Flight bookings are up by more than  percent weekonweek, with bookings from New York to London increasing by nearly  percent, compared to the previous week. Weve missed flying our USbased customers and were excited to welcome them back on board soon, he said. According to the Telegraph, British Foreign Minister Dominic Raab has discussed the issue with US Secretary of State Antony Blinken, in addition to Britains ambassador to Washington, Karen Pierce, lobbying the authorities to take action. Shapps spoke to US transport secretary Pete Buttigieg before Wednesdays announcement, but despite his optimism that the gesture may be reciprocated, when pushed on the matter, all he could say was it will depend. We can only set the rules at our end, and that has always been the case. We cant change that on the other side, but we do expect that in time they will release that executive order, which was actually signed by the previous president Donald Trump, on March ,  and bans inward travel. Bidens first overseas trip as president was to the UK, for the G meeting in June, where he held talks with Prime Minister Boris Johnson, with the possibility of a travel corridor one of the topics of conversation, but despite hopes having been raised, the situation has not yet changed. Duncan Edwards, chief executive of BritishAmerican Business, which represents  major companies, told the Telegraph that there is no reason why fully vaccinated travelers with the correct visas should not be able to visit the US from countries like the UK that have had such success with their vaccination programs. Similarly, the US Travel Association has called on the Biden administration to reopen international travel in the very near term  starting with air corridors between the US and nations with similar vaccination rates. Given the high rates of vaccination on both sides of the Atlantic, it is possible to begin safely welcoming back vaccinated visitors from these crucial inbound markets, it said in a statement quoted in the Financial Times. But earlier this week, White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki said The more transmissible Delta variant is spreading both here and around the world. Driven by the Delta variant, cases are rising here at home, particularly among those who are unvaccinated and appear likely to continue to increase in the weeks ahead. It is understood that Biden may not change the rules until September, so for now, it looks like transatlantic travel in summer  may only consist of oneway tickets.