Cambodia ties boosted by joint efforts
2021-07-29 09:56
An education staff receives a dose of Chinas Sinovac coronavirus disease COVID vaccine at a school in Phnom Penh, Cambodia, April , . PhotoAgencies    China will continue to work with Cambodia to boost friendly exchanges and practical cooperation to a new level, said a senior official of the Communist Party of China on Wednesday. The official also called for joint efforts by think tanks in both countries to deepen communication and cooperation. Huang Kunming, a member of the Political Bureau of the CPC Central Committee and head of the Publicity Department of the CPC Central Committee, made the remarks via video conference in Beijing at the opening ceremony of the second CambodiaChina Think Tank HighLevel Forum cohosted by the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences and the Royal Academy of Cambodia. Huang commended efforts made by both academies in strengthening bilateral cooperation and promoting peopletopeople exchanges. He said the long historical friendship has also been highlighted by the mutual support of the two countries in the face of the pandemic. In the fight against COVID, China and Cambodia have stood through thick and thin together, and the joint pandemic fight clearly demonstrates the profound friendship between the two peoples, Huang said. Bin Chhin, Cambodias standing deputy prime minister and Cabinet minister, said the relations of the two countries have reached the best stage and highest level ever in terms of trade, tourism, and educational and cultural exchanges. The influx of Chinese businesses and people has also contributed greatly to Cambodias development. Leg up China has helped Cambodia in fighting the pandemic by providing millions of vaccines, which has given Cambodia a leg up in its vaccination campaign, Bin Chhin said. According to official figures, China had donated more than  million vaccines to Cambodia as of June. Sok Touch, president of the Royal Academy of Cambodia, also spoke highly of the cooperation between the two countries think tanks, saying it charted a bright picture for the development of SinoCambodian ties. The forum, first held in Cambodia in , will contribute to the wisdom in promoting the countries highquality development, bridging communication and boosting mutual understanding of the peoples. Xie Fuzhan, president of the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences, said China and Cambodia have great trade potential. China has been Cambodias largest trading partner and trade volume between the two countries in  reached . billion despite the pandemic, increasing . percent yearonyear, according to Chinas Ministry of Commerce. In the first five months of this year, the two countries saw a  percent yearonyear growth in bilateral trade, with a total volume of . billion. In October , China and Cambodia signed a freetrade agreement, a move seen as bringing relations of the two countries to a new level. The agreement, the first of its kind in Cambodia, is a new milestone, said Xie, adding it shows a clear stance in safeguarding trade and investment liberalization.