School closures bringing problems
2021-07-29 09:28
A boy has his temperature checked before entering the Stara Rescue Centre and School during the reopening of schools, for the delayed academic year , amid the novel coronavirus disease COVID pandemic, in Kibera slums of Nairobi, Kenya, July , . PhotoAgencies    School closures due to the COVID pandemic are still affecting more than  million children in countries where they are not on an academic break, said the United Nations Childrens Fund, or UNICEF. The closures mean education, safety, friends and food have been replaced by anxiety, violence, and teenage pregnancy, the agency said. Across the globe in all continents weve seen child helplines, a good precursor to understanding kids who are reporting violence, seeing often tripledigit increases, UNICEF spokesman James Elder said in Geneva on Tuesday. In nearly half of countries in Asia and the Pacific, schools have been closed for around  days, while countries in Latin America and the Caribbean have been affected by the longest closures, according to UNICEF. It estimates that  percent of all children in Eastern and Southern Africa, aged  to , are currently out of school. In Uganda, the pandemic had led to a  percent rise in teen pregnancies in the last  months. Elder warned that if the figures from UNICEF did not resonate with those in power, then consider a World Bank report that estimates a loss of  trillion in earnings over time for this generation of students. Remote learning UNICEF said remote learning was not accessible to many, saying the solution is simply out of reach for at least a third of the worlds schoolchildren. Elder noted that in East Asia and the Pacific,  million children have no access whatsoever to any remote learning. He added that in Uganda, schoolchildren have gone more than  days out of school, while home internet connectivity is the lowest on the planet there at about . percent. UNICEF has called for immediate action, laying out a fivestep plan. It is appealing for schools to reopen as soon as possible for governments and donors to protect the education budget and for enrolment to be extended to children who were already out of school preCOVID. It also seeks the removal of financial barriers and the loosening of registration requirements, and for cash transfers to the most vulnerable to be increased. Everything needs to be done to bring an end to the pandemic, Elder said. He added Immediately sharing available excess doses is a minimum, essential and emergency stopgap measure, and it is needed right now. As is financing to support the rollout of vaccines. In addition to vaccines, diagnostics and therapeutics are critical to bringing this pandemic under control, which is why, as part of its annual Humanitarian Appeal for Children, UNICEF has called for  million to help countries with the delivery of vaccines, therapeutics and diagnostic tools in .