ChinaASEAN cooperation is deepening
2021-07-29 07:18
Aerial photo taken on Nov. ,  shows a cargo ship leaving a berth of the Qinzhou Port in South Chinas Guangxi Zhuang autonomous region. PhotoXinhua    Two sides respect each other, strive to resolve differences through dialogue China, under the leadership of President Xi Jinping, has developed a longterm perspective and shown an enduring sincerity to help keep its yearold collaboration with the member Association of Southeast Asian Nations afloat and thriving, according to officials, scholars and leaders. Many of the observers described the  partnership as dynamic and enriched, as China and ASEAN have engaged in a series of events to mark the th anniversary of their dialogue relations, which cover a total population of more than  billion. ASEANs members are Brunei, Cambodia, Indonesia, Laos, Malaysia, Myanmar, the Philippines, Singapore, Thailand and Vietnam. The start of ChinaASEAN dialogue relations can be traced back to July , when Beijings senior diplomats were invited to the opening ceremony of the th ASEAN Foreign Ministers Meeting. In the past three decades, they have joined hands in conquering two major global economic crises, and their annual total trade volume has surged more than fold, from less than  billion in  to . billion last year. Chinas policymakers have consistently given due respect to and endorsed ASEANs central role in East Asian regional cooperation. The member bloc has been given remarkable emphasis in recent years when Beijing has deliberated on its cooperative blueprints with the outside world, such as the Belt and Road Initiative, analysts said. Indonesia, a populous member of ASEAN, witnessed Xis unveiling of Beijings vision for cobuilding the st Century Maritime Silk Road when delivering a speech at the countrys Parliament in November . The vision, together with the Silk Road Economic Belt, was the leadup to introduction of the BRI. Also in that speech, Xi called on ASEAN countries to build a closer ChinaASEAN community with a shared future. Last year, ASEAN became Chinas largest trade partner amid global economic headwinds triggered by the COVID pandemic. Throughout Xis interactions with leaders of ASEAN member states in recent years, the word cooperation dominated the agenda. He has often highlighted the need to advance regional cooperation, promote solidarity, build trust, tackle common challenges and properly resolve differences, and he proposed a slew of initiatives to broaden the scope for collaboration in bilateral as well as ChinaASEAN contexts. When addressing the opening ceremony of the th ChinaASEAN Expo and ChinaASEAN Business and Investment Summit in November, Xi said the two sides enjoy increasing connectivity, deepening economic integration, robust business ties and closer peopletopeople exchanges. Yang Baoyun, a professor specializing in ASEAN studies at Thailands Thammasat University, said Xis series of speeches and remarks about charting ties with ASEAN manifest Chinas lasting sincerity and farsighted strategy for upgrading its friendly cooperation with ASEAN. The areas of ChinaASEAN collaboration have expanded to cover politics, security, economy and culture, said Yang, who also is a professor at Peking Universitys School of International Studies. In the process of cooperation, the two sides respect each other, gradually deepen mutual trust and strive to resolve differences and problems through dialogue, Yang said. Sultan Haji Hassanal Bolkiah of Brunei, which holds ASEANs rotating chairmanship this year, recently endorsed the fruitful results of  years of ASEANChina collaboration. He said that ASEANChina relations are among the blocs most strategic and comprehensive partnerships, adding that he is confident the partnership will create a better future for the people of all the countries involved. ASEAN SecretaryGeneral Dato Lim Jock Hoi said, Not only is the ChinaASEAN strategic partnership beneficial to both sides, but it also has significant impact on the situation in our region and beyond. Chinas support for ASEAN is a concrete manifestation of Chinas support for regionalism and multilateralism, he said via video link on Wednesday while addressing an international symposium, hosted by the China Institute of International Studies in Beijing, to mark the dialogue partnerships th anniversary. Aaron Jed Rabena, a research fellow at the AsiaPacific Pathways to Progress Foundation, a Philippine think tank, told the symposium that the Belt and Road Initiative is an evolving regimen. He added that he sees the BRI as a framework for measuring ChinaASEAN joint achievements.