Germany coach Flick ahead of delicate decision due to COVID
2021-11-12 10:32
Germany coach Hansi Flick. PhotoAgencies    BERLIN  Germany coach Hansi Flick is far from happy, possibly having to make a delicate decision for the upcoming year. COVID infection numbers are growing in international sports, and the German coach might have to consider only appointing fully vaccinated players. Around the  World Cup qualifier against Liechtenstein  in Wolfsburg on Thursday night, the pandemics effects caught up on Joachim Lows successor. I have to think about how we deal with this topic, the former Bayern coach said after five of his players had to leave the team headquarters for quarantine after a positive test of fully vaccinated Bayern defender Niklas Sule. Serge Gnabry, Karim Adeyemi, Jamal Musiala, and Joshua Kimmich were sent home as firstdegree contacts of Sule indicates and the quartet until now refused to be vaccinated. According to German health rules, nonvaccinated persons have to attend quarantine for at least seven days despite a negative test. While the German association referred to data privacy, not clarifying the players vaccination status, increasing problems in football came to light. I hope we dont face this problem again, having to send five players home due to COVID, Flick said. The German coach mentioned vaccination isnt mandatory in Germany. But we all are role models for many people. For me taking the jab is the only way to control the pandemic. A coach prefers all players to be vaccinated, he added. Flick might have thought about similar incidents possibly creating turbulences in the weeks ahead of Qatar . While only vaccinated or recovered fans were allowed in the Wolfsburg arena, like in several German stadiums, employees in Germany can rely on the threeG model according to worker rights. They either need to take the jab, provide a recovery document, or a negative test. Like any other professional sport, football enjoys a prominent position, Flick said, setting a new starting record as a German coach. He mentioned footballs responsibility after his sixth consecutive victory. Not only does the association need to make a decision but clubs such as Bayern Munich. The Bavarians so far only announced they favor vaccinations of their players but refused to demand it as compulsory. While German athletes competing at the  Beijing Winter Olympics are fully vaccinated, German club football suffers from several protagonists refusing it. Several clubs have to deal with players, not available for competition in the Bundesliga due to quarantine orders after being tested positive. Bayern will intensify talks with players about the topic. Media talk of club concerns of possibly having to run games in the Champions League without the best squad. Flick is annoyed by the turbulences after he was forced to change his squad and skip training sessions and team meetings. We had other plans as we currently meet for the last games in , Flick stated while his predecessor and  World Champion coach Low enjoyed the warm applause of  fans for his official farewell. The coach cant be happy about the latest development and Oliver Bierhoffs nebulous statement. The national team manager said We might have to live with the players decision. As it seems, not only Flick has a problem with that attitude.