IMF projects global economy to grow by  in , highlighting widening divergence
2021-07-27 21:26
The International Monetary Fund IMF logo is seen outside the headquarters building in Washington, US, on Sept , . PhotoAgencies    WASHINGTON  The International Monetary Fund IMF on Tuesday maintained its global economic growth forecast at  percent for , with economic prospects diverging further across countries since Aprils forecast, according to the latest World Economic Outlook. The global economic recovery continues, but with a widening gap between advanced economies and many emerging market and developing economies, IMF Chief Economist Gita Gopinath told a virtual press briefing. Our latest global growth forecast of  percent for  is unchanged from the previous outlook, but the composition has changed, said Gopinath. In April, the IMF upgraded its  global growth forecast to  percent from Januarys forecast of . percent due to vaccination progress and additional fiscal support in large economies. According to the latest projection, growth prospects for advanced economies this year have improved by . percentage points to reach . percent, while those for emerging market and developing economies this year are downgraded by . percentage points to . percent. Close to  percent of the population in advanced economies has been fully vaccinated, compared with  percent in emerging market economies, and a tiny fraction in lowincome developing countries, Gopinath noted. Fasterthanexpected vaccination rates and return to normalcy have led to upgrades, while lack of access to vaccines and renewed waves of COVID cases in some countries, notably India, have led to downgrades, she said. Gopinath noted that divergences in policy support are a second source of the deepening divide, as advanced economies continued to roll out sizable fiscal support with . trillionof announced pandemicrelated measures available in  and beyond. On the other hand, in emerging market and developing economies, most measures expired in , and they are looking to rebuild fiscal buffers, she said, adding that some emerging markets like Brazil, Hungary, Mexico, Russia and Turkey have also begun raising monetary policy rates to head off upward price pressures.