Tunisian president ousts government amid COVID protests
2021-07-27 20:30
Tunisian President Kais Saied addresses the nation in this screengrab taken from Tunisian Presidents office footage, Tunisia July , . PhotoAgencies    Tunisias president, Kais Saied, late on Sunday suspended parliament with help from the army, a move that has been denounced as a coup by the countrys main parties. The move comes following mass protests over the governments COVID response and a long economic crisis. Army troops surrounded Tunisias parliament on Monday and blocked its speaker from entering after the president suspended the legislature, fired the prime minister and other top members of government, and implemented a curfew, sparking concerns for the North African countrys young democracy. Hichem Mechichi, the dismissed prime minister, said he cannot be a disruptive element, and he will hand the responsibility to whomever the president chooses, in a move that may ease the North African countrys tough political crisis. In order to preserve the safety of all Tunisians, I declare that I align myself, as I have always, by the side of our people, and declare that I will not take up any position or responsibility in the state, Mechichi said in a statement on Facebook. He added in the statement that he is ready to serve Tunisia from any location. However Rached Ghannouchi, Tunisias parliament speaker who heads the Islamist party that dominates the legislature, said the president did not consult with him or the prime minister as required. Ghannouchi called the presidents move a coup against the constitution and the Arab Spring revolution, and insisted the parliament would continue to work. Saieds action followed months of deadlock and disputes pitting him against Mechichi and a fragmented parliament, as Tunisia descended into an economic crisis exacerbated by one of Africas worst COVID outbreaks. As a result, the president invoked emergency powers under the constitution late on Sunday to dismiss Mechichi and suspend parliament for  days. We have decided to take these decisions until social peace returns to Tunisia and until we save the state, Saied said on national television. Tensions between the prime minister and the president have been blamed for poor management of the COVID pandemic in the country. In addition, a bungled vaccination drive led to the sacking of the health minister earlier this month. According to data from the Africa Center for Disease Control and Prevention,  percent of Tunisias population has been fully vaccinated to date, while more than  percent of the countrys hospital beds in intensive care units are occupied.