French health pass approved in face of protests
2021-07-27 09:59
A placard reads No to the health pass during a demonstration called by the Popular Republican Union against the new coronavirus safety measures including a compulsory health pass in front of the French Senate in Paris, on July , . PhotoAgencies    Frances parliament approved a controversial law early on Monday requiring COVID passes for people to enter restaurants and mandatory vaccinations for health workers despite two consecutive weeks of mass protests across the country. The law requires a COVID health pass to enter all restaurants, planes, trains and some other public spots. It also requires all healthcare workers to get vaccinated by Sept  or risk suspension. In order to receive the pass, people must have proof that they are fully vaccinated, have tested negative recently or recovered from COVID recently. French lawmakers agreed to a compromise over the weekend with approval of the bill by the Senate on Sunday night and the National Assembly after midnight. The current rules can be applied through Nov  depending on the COVID situation in the country. The Delta variant is now the main strain circulating in France. Prime Minister Jean Castex said last Wednesday that  percent of the , new cases reported the day before were among the unvaccinated. The bill, which was unveiled six days ago, sparked protests in a number of French cities, with , people demonstrating across the country on Saturday, up from the , a week earlier, according to the countrys interior ministry. On Saturday, antiriot police fired tear gas as clashes erupted during protests against the new restrictions in central Paris. Protesters denounced what they call a sanitary dictatorship and said the COVID passes violate individual freedom. Call for unity President Emmanuel Macron on Sunday called for unity in the country against a resurgent coronavirus. He again asked citizens to get vaccinated. Macron, who was visiting a hospital in Tahiti in French Polynesia, questioned the motives of the protesters demanding freedom. He said the protesters were free to express themselves in a calm and respectful manner, but this would not help end the pandemic. I want to make a call for unity, Macron said. He accused the farright and other organizations of using sometimes cynical manipulative mobilization against vaccination. The yellow vest movement, which staged long antigovernment protests starting in late , also participated in the demonstrations. Despite the protests, more than threequarters of the French public support the new measures, according to a recent Elabe poll for BFMTV. But an Ifop poll for Le Journal du Dimanche shows that  percent of the public feel support or sympathy for the protests. Some other European countries are making similar moves requiring vaccine passes for public venues in a bid to halt the resurgent pandemic as societies reopen for the summer season. Italy adopted a green pass proofofvaccination system last Thursday for access to certain leisure activities and restaurant dining. In Germany, Chancellor Angela Merkels chief of staff Helge Braun, a medical doctor by training, warned that restrictions for unvaccinated people may be necessary if COVID case numbers reach new heights in the coming months. Agencies contributed to this story.