Taiwan people vaccinated in Fuzhou
2021-07-26 13:10
Shih Hsiaohsiao at her office in Fuzhou, Fujian province. Photo provided to China Daily    Shih Hsiaohsiao, a yearold office worker in Fuzhou, Fujian province, has received about  to  phone calls every day in recent months from Taiwan people who want to be vaccinated against COVID. Shih, who is also from Taiwan, was employed by online platform Tailutong last year. On March , with support from the local government, the app opened an online appointment channel for Taiwan people aged  and older who are in the mainland, to be vaccinated in Fuzhou. By July ,  Taiwan people had made an appointment on the platform and  had received their second dose. This service meets the urgent needs of Taiwan compatriots. We are very thankful to be able to get free vaccinations here, she said. Because of the epidemic on the island, many Taiwan people on the Chinese mainland have postponed plans to return, and have shown great interest in the vaccine, especially as the island currently faces a shortage of supplies, she said, adding that Taiwan residents cannot register on some vaccination platforms using mainland travel permits. Through Tailutong, people are able to make an appointment one or two workdays in advance and can get vaccinated at one of two hospitals in the city upon presenting a valid certificate. The vaccines are from Sinopharm or Sinovac, and two doses are needed. Shih and her colleagues provide assistance through the process. They help people make appointments, accompany them to the hospital and call them after to find out if they are experiencing any side effects. She also set up a WeChat group for faster communication. Many Taiwan people are eager to be vaccinated. One man even drove from Sanming also in Fujian to Fuzhou on a workday for his shot, she said. Huang Shoukun, the owner of an art company in Fuzhou, got his inoculations through Tailutong in May and June. He said that he was worried about the lack of vaccines in Taiwan and hoped that his family could come to Fuzhou to get vaccinated, as well. Chao Yenpin, a student in Fuzhou, got his vaccinations through his university. He said that his parents in Taiwan plan to get vaccinated in Fuzhou too, although they will have to undergo a day quarantine and follow sevenday health monitoring. Its necessary because its about keeping people safe, he said. Besides the vaccination service, Shih helps Taiwan people with things like updating their permits, getting telephone lines, bank cards, and applying for social insurance and drivers licenses. She said that people like to talk to her because she can understand their needs. After graduating from Jinan University in Guangdong province, Shih chose to stay in the mainland because of the many perks offered to young people from Taiwan, such as housing and entrepreneurship subsidies. She was unable to return home during this years Spring Festival because of the outbreak. Together with about  Taiwan people in Fuzhou, she joined in activities organized by the local government including a cultural festival and making lanterns, to feel the warmth of home. I have learned a lot studying and working in the mainland, and Im happy to have made many friends. I hope to help more Taiwan residents here live a good life, she added. Yang Jie in Fuzhou contributed to this story.