Antihealth pass protests continue in France amid th wave of COVID
2021-07-25 10:08
Demonstrators attend a protest against the new measures announced by French President Emmanuel Macron to fight the coronavirus disease COVID outbreak, in Paris, France, July , . PhotoAgencies    PARIS  Tens of thousands of protestors turned out on Saturday in French cities for the third weekend of the action in a row to oppose anticoronavirus rules as lawmakers are due to approve this weekend on a law aimed at setting up a health pass and mandatory vaccination for medical staff in a move to handle the fourth wave of the pandemic. Some , people took part in the demonstrations in France, according to the estimation of the Interior Ministry. The figure is up from last weeks ,. In Paris, Saturdays protests have lured , people, compared with , last week. Marches across French cities were relatively calm. But in the capital, tension flared near SaintLazare railway station and in the Champs Elysees Avenue where police fired tear gas to push back demonstrators who threw projectiles at them. In a Twitter message, Interior Minister Gerald Darmanin strongly condemned the violent behavior which targeted certain police officers, gendarmes and journalists. Nine people were arrested in Paris, he added. The government drafted a bill that will make vaccination of health workers and firefighters mandatory. In addition, only people who have completed their vaccination, have the negative test or recently recovered from COVID will be allowed, starting from early August, to enter restaurants and cafes, go to shopping centers, gyms and even hospitals except for emergencies. The authorities argued that the new rules are needed to contain the highlytransmissible Delta variant, first detected in India, and to avoid a new nationwide lockdown. But critics say the measures obstructed peoples freedom and discriminated against those who refuse to receive COVID vaccine. What is a health pass? It is an incentive to vaccinate, it is the way to keep open as much as possible places that could have been closed if the pandemic flares up such as restaurants, Prime Minister Jean Castex said on Wednesday. We must give ourselves the means to control this pandemic outbreak...The contagiousness of Delta variant forces us even more to be vaccinated, he added. To date, some . million people are fully inoculated, nearly half of the countrys  million inhabitants, according to Health Ministrys figures. The French government aims to administer  million first shots and have  million people fully vaccinated by the end of August. On Saturday, , more people tested positive for COVID, the highest daily count since May . The cumulative number of coronavirus cases now totals . million, among them , patients lost their lives. Currently, , people are receiving treatment in hospitals. Meanwhile, the number of criticallyill patients in intensive care increased for the third straight day to stand at . JeanFrancois Delfraissy, head of the scientific council that advises the government on coronavirus, expected the number of new daily infections to reach around , by the beginning of August, and that the fourth pandemic wave would affect French hospitals in the second half of next month. The return to normal is not for now, probably in  or . We will probably have another variant which will emerge in the winter. This virus has extraordinary mutation capacity, Delfraissy said in a recent TV interview.