Chinas virus response wins broad kudos
2021-07-24 07:25
Medical workers get prepared to operate at a testing site in a residential compound in Jiangning district of Nanjing, East Chinas Jiangsu province, on July , . PHOTOXINHUA    Chinas success in containing its coronavirus outbreak and securing an economic revival is earning more and more plaudits at home and abroad, a range of indicators shows. The Chinese mainland topped the Nikkei COVID Recovery Index that ranks more than  countries and regions on infection management, vaccine rollout and social mobility. According to the index released in midJuly, China was assessed with the highest score of ., out of a maximum of . The United States, with the most COVID infections and deaths, was ranked nd with .. The US had earlier placed No.  in a COVIDResilience Ranking put out by Bloomberg, a ranking that many dismiss as dubious. A higher ranking on Nikkeis index indicates that a country or region is closer to recovery, with low numbers of confirmed COVID cases, higher vaccination rates and lessstringent social distancing measures. Chinas economy grew by . percent in the second quarter of  compared with a year earlier and . percent for the first half of the year, according to the National Bureau of Statistics. In Asia, Qatar and Singapore also made it into the top  of the Nikkei list, tied at fifth with a score of . Japan and South Korea ranked th and th, respectively. Trust at all levels Chinas success in fighting COVIDenabling a swift return to normal economic and social conditionshas boosted its peoples trust in the government, at all levels. A poll published in The Washington Post in May shows that Chinese citizens trust in their national government increased to  percent. The survey was conducted in late April last year, and , people from  provinces or provinciallevel administrative regions across China were interviewed. The result compares with a trust level of  percent in the  World Values Survey, which means citizens have a great deal or quite a lot of trust in national government. Unlike some developed countries that have been hoarding COVID vaccines for their own benefit, China has not only cared about its own people but also lent a helping hand to many other countries. So far, China has provided more than  million doses and concentrates of COVID vaccines to more than  countries and international organizations, about onesixth of the total global output. Andy Brooks, general secretary of New Communist Party of Britain, earlier told China Daily that China has led the world in tackling the pandemic and providing immense assistance to others in the battle against coronavirus. Overseas standing Such a commitment in the fight against the pandemic has also improved Chinas image overseas, a poll released in June shows. As for Bloombergs latest COVID Resilience Ranking, many have dismissed it as ridiculous and a mockery of all independent impartial and objective polls around the world. In the ranking released on June , the US top ranking was accompanied by the appraisal that the country is the best place to be during the pandemic. Li Haidong, a professor at the China Foreign Affairs University, said the standard of Bloombergs ranking system is ludicrous and categories seem to be sometimes removed or added in accordance with the needs of Washington political fixers. According to Johns Hopkins University, the US has the most COVID infections of any country, with more than  million confirmed cases and more than , deaths by Friday. It makes more people realize the absurdity of the US medias logic The death toll of the US is much higher, so the US contributed more to the fight against the pandemic,Li said in an opinion article published on Global Times.