Wisdom of selfisolation rules queried by experts
2021-07-23 09:42
The coronavirus disease COVID contact tracing smartphone app of Britains National Health Service NHS is displayed on an iPhone in this illustration photograph taken in Keele, Britain, Sept , . PhotoAgencies    Disease experts have questioned the necessity of the United Kingdoms COVID contact tracing apparatus and isolation rules, which have led to major worker shortages and disrupted supply chains. In the UK, the national healthcare app is designed to contact or ping individuals who have come within  meters of someone who later tests positive for COVID. Daily cases of the novel coronavirus have shot up during the past month in the UK, regularly breaching ,, sending the contract tracing system into overdrive, with , people pinged in the first week of July, the most recent period for which National Health Service, or NHS, data is available. Government guidance stipulates that pinged people should isolate for  days, resulting in many industries facing employee and stock shortages. Supermarket chain Iceland said it has closed a number of stores after , employees, or  percent of its workforce, were told to isolate. The chain is drafting in , temporary employees to make up for the disruption. Tim Spector, a professor of genetic epidemiology at Kings College London and principal investigator of the ZOE COVID symptom study, questioned the need for the system, which requires people to selfisolate even if they are fully vaccinated and test negative for the virus. It doesnt seem to be appropriate at the moment, it seems to be overkill, Spector told Sky News on Thursday. I think employers have got to just use common sense I think employers should tell their staff if they feel unwell, they have coldlike symptoms, then they stay away but I dont think the app saying that someone might have passed them by in a supermarket is actually that useful anymore in the current state of the pandemic. Jonathan Stoye, a virologist at the Francis Crick Institute, questioned if selfisolation should be necessary for pinged people who are double vaccinated and who test negative. It would not seem unreasonable for it to be considered whether the selfisolation instruction needs to apply to those people, Stoye said. But other experts are convinced of the importance of the current system. In the UK, daily confirmed cases of the virus are the most plentiful they have been since January, so a large number of pings are to be expected, said Jon Crowcroft, a professor of communications systems in the computer science department at the University of Cambridge. Theres nothing much wrong with the app, just people arent socially distancing enough, Crowcroft said. He added that the number of notifications that occurred in the first week of July is in line with what you would expect, given that roughly , people tested positive during that period. If each person testing positive met about four people a day, and you had a roughly  chance they and the other person were running the app, which is approximately right, then youd expect to see about , people getting notified, Crowcroft said. Simon Clarke, an associate professor in cellular microbiology at the University of Reading, said that selfisolation is one of the most effective tools we have to prevent spread.