Xi urges greater cooperation in AsiaPacific
2021-11-12 06:57
President Xi Jinping delivers a keynote speech at the AsiaPacific Economic Cooperation CEO Summit via video link in Beijing on Thursday. LI XUERENXINHUA    The AsiaPacific region cannot and should not relapse into the confrontation and division of the Cold War era, President Xi Jinping said on Thursday, as he urged greater regional cooperation on pandemic recovery and the climate crisis. We should be forward looking, move ahead and reject practices of discrimination and exclusion of others. Attempts to draw ideological lines or form small circles on geopolitical grounds are bound to fail, Xi said in a prerecorded keynote speech to the annual AsiaPacific Economic Cooperation CEO Summit. The summit, hosted online by New Zealand, brought together the worlds most influential business leaders as well as leaders of APEC economies. Xi is also scheduled to participate in the APEC Economic Leaders Meeting with other Pacific Rim leaders, including US President Joe Biden, on Friday. In his speech, Xi stressed the need for the region to advance trade and investment liberalization and facilitation, keep industrial and supply chains stable and functioning, and promote the orderly flow of resources and input to boost economic recovery and achieve interconnected development. We should all be broadminded, follow the underlying trend of the times and proactively expand openingup, he said. The president made a fourpoint proposal for the region to work toward the goal of building an AsiaPacific community with a shared future. He expounded on the need to make allout efforts to fight COVID, saying that to emerge from the shadow of the pandemic and attain steady recovery remains the most pressing task for the region. We should support each other in fighting COVID and step up cooperation in areas such as testing methods, treatment medicine and the research, development, production and mutual recognition of vaccines to truly create synergy against COVID, he said. He also urged steps to ensure the fair and equitable distribution of vaccines and boost their accessibility and affordability in developing countries in order to close the immunization gap. The AsiaPacific region should pursue a green postpandemic recovery and take the lead in making a sciencebased response to climate change, he said, adding that China will make its due contribution to boost ecological conservation in the region and beyond. Xi reiterated Chinas commitment to advance a green transition on all fronts and fully carry out its national strategy on climate change response. China will strike a balance between a lowcarbon transition and ensuring the living needs of its people, and between development and carbon reduction, and will achieve a carbon peak and carbon neutrality within the time frame we set, he said. He underscored that Chinas carbon reduction action is a profound economic and social transformation, and the nation will work tirelessly to make its contribution to promoting global green transition, no matter how formidable the task may be. The president also repeated an appeal to developed economies to provide developing countries with funding and technological support and help them enhance their capacity to conduct environment governance. Chinas carbon reduction actions will require massive investment, thus creating huge market opportunities and room for cooperation, he said, adding that business communities across the AsiaPacific region are welcome to join the nations endeavor. The president also reiterated Chinas commitments in advancing reform and openingup, adding that the nation will build a highstandard market system and work to make new progress in reforming important areas and key links. He explained the recent antitrust moves from Chinese government departments and measures to strengthen oversight of some sectors, saying that the moves are called for to promote the sound development of the market economy in China. China will continue to treat all types of market entities on an equal basis and foster a unified, open, competitive and orderly market system, he said.