US life expectancy falls by . years
2021-07-22 12:00
Life expectancy in the US declined by about a year and a half in , the largest annual decline since World War II, and the COVID pandemic is largely to blame, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention CDC said Wednesday.For the total population, life expectancy  generally a reliable measure of a nations health, based on mortality in a given year  declined from . years in  to . years in  COVID contributed to  percent of the decline, according to data released by the CDC.Life expectancy has been increasing gradually every year for the past several decades, Elizabeth Arias, a CDC researcher who worked on the report, told Reuters. The decline between  and  was so large that it took us back to the levels we were in . Sort of like we lost a decade.The report also reflects the disproportionate impact of COVID on racial, gender and ethnic groups.Latinos, who have a longer life expectancy than nonHispanic black or white people, saw a decline of three years, from . years in  to . years in , which is the biggest decline among racial groups.Black Americans lost . years of life expectancy, from . years in  to . in . There was a decrease of . years among white people. The report didnt include data for Asian Americans or other racial groups.COVID was responsible for  percent of the decline in life expectancy for the Hispanic population. For the black population, which saw life expectancy reach its lowest level since , COVID contributed to  percent of the decline. For the white population, which saw life expectancy reach the lowest level since , COVID contributed to  percent of the decline.We were sounding the alarm early on, and I think the data reflects directly the longstanding structural racism in this country and how that disproportionately impacts black and Hispanic communities. It impacts where they live, work, and play and ultimately impacted the risk of dying from COVID, Chantel Martin, an assistant professor of epidemiology at the Gillings School of Global Public Health at the University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, told USA Today.Disparities in life expectancy between men and women also widened in , with women now expected to live . years, or . years longer than men  six months more than expected in .Life expectancy wont recover to prepandemic levels in  and could decline again if a new COVID variant emerges that vaccines dont protect against, Arias and other populationhealth experts told The Wall Street Journal.An increase in drug overdose deaths was also a factor in declining life expectancy. The CDCs National Center for Health Statistics NCHS last week released interim data showing that US drug overdose deaths rose nearly  percent in , and more than , people died from overdoses in , the highest number reported in a single year.According to the NCHS, an estimated  percent of the decline in life expectancy is due to increases in deaths from accidents and unintentional injuries, and more than onethird of all unintentional injury deaths were drug overdoses.Other contributing causes of death include homicide, diabetes and chronic liver disease and cirrhosis, the report noted.Since the middle of the th century, life expectancy has steadily climbed in the US, with some small decreases in recent years.But a small increase was recorded in , when it improved from . to . years, which was the first time since  that the number had gone up. In , the number also increased by a small increment, the CDC reported.According to the data from the United Nations Population Division, in , life expectancy in the US ranked th worldwide, below most other highincome countries.