Experts in the US call for masks to go back on
2021-07-21 10:39
A person wearing a protective face mask uses her mobile phone during the outbreak of the coronavirus disease COVID, in Los Angeles, California, US, March , . PhotoAgencies    Two months after the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention CDC said vaccinated individuals didnt need to wear masks indoors, health experts are calling for people to put them back on as the Delta variant now accounts for  percent of coronavirus cases in the nation, the head of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said Tuesday. The percentage of cases from the Delta variant is even higher in some parts of the country, particularly in areas of low vaccination rates, CDC Director Dr Rochelle Walensky told a Senate hearing. COVID fatalities have risen by nearly  percent since last week to an average of about  per day, she said. The message from CDC remains clear The best way to prevent the spread of COVID variants is to prevent the spread of disease, and vaccination is the most powerful tool we have, Walensky said. The weekly rolling average for coronavirus cases in the US has nearly tripled in the last month, from fewer than , on June  to almost , on Monday, according to The Washington Post. A White House official and a spokesperson for House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, both fully vaccinated, tested positive this week for the coronavirus after attending an event together, White House press secretary Jen Psaki confirmed during a news briefing Tuesday. Pelosis office said that an aide to the speaker tested positive after meeting with the Democrats who went to Washington last week amid a battle in the state Legislature over voting rights. Six of the Texas lawmakers have tested positive for the coronavirus, including a former nurse who announced her test result Tuesday. The individual in Pelosis office has had no contact with the speaker since exposure, Pelosi spokesperson Drew Hammill told ABC News. Yesterday, a fully vaccinated White House official tested positive for COVID offcampus, an anonymous White House official said in a statement. The staffer is selfisolating, according to rigorous COVID protocols, the official said. The White House Medical Unit has conducted contacttracing interviews and determined no close contacts among White House principals and staff. The individual has mild symptoms, the official said. Meanwhile, the Delta variant is causing rising numbers of coronavirus cases in all states, and Arkansas, Missouri and New York are weighing mask mandates. In California, where last week Los Angeles County reinstated an indoor mask mandate,  California counties are asking even fully vaccinated individuals to wear face coverings as a precaution while inside places like grocery stores, movie theaters and retail outlets. The new round of mask advisories means that roughly  percent of Californians live in a county that either recommends or requires indoor masking for all individuals, including those vaccinated for COVID, according to the Los Angeles Times. Universal masking indoors is a way of taking care of each other while we get more people vaccinated, said Barbara Ferrer, director of the Los Angeles County Department of Public Health. It really doesnt disrupt any business practices. It allows us to remain fully open  while we acknowledge that the delta variant is spreading like wildfire here. The American Academy of Pediatrics AAP issued recommendations Monday for the  school year that include everyone above age  wearing masks, regardless of vaccination status. The AAP is recommending a layered approach to make schools safe for students, teachers and staff alike as the Delta variant continues to drive cases of the novel coronavirus, which causes COVID, higher in all  states. The guidance contradicts the CDC, which relaxed its masking guidelines earlier this month to say that vaccinated teachers and students dont need to wear face coverings. The AAP represents , primary care pediatricians, pediatric medical subspecialists and pediatric surgical specialists from across the US. Dr Anthony Fauci, director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, suggested on Tuesday that parents follow new COVID guidance for maskwearing issued by the AAP. He said the CDC is carefully looking at its school guidance. The academy wants to go the extra mile to make sure children are protected at school because of the rise in cases blamed on the Delta variant of the coronavirus, Fauci told CBS This Morning. The nations former surgeon general warned the nation should brace for a broader return to maskwearing. Instead of vax it OR mask it, the emerging data suggest CDC should be advising to vax it and mask it in areas with rising cases and positivity until we see numbers going back down again, former US Surgeon General Dr Jerome Adams said on Twitter.