Johnson dragged feet on second UK lockdown
2021-07-21 09:31
Police officers detain a man during an antilockdown demonstration in Londons Parliament Square amid coronavirus disease COVID pandemic, in London, Britain, July , . PhotoAgencies    The United Kingdoms prime minister was prepared to sacrifice the nations oldest residents to avoid a second novel coronavirus lockdown, according to Dominic Cummings, his former senior adviser. Cummings, who had been a close aide and confidant of Boris Johnson and who had appeared inseparable from him, left his Downing Street job late last year, after apparent infighting in the prime ministers inner circle of nonelected officials. He has since embarrassed the prime minister several times with claims about behindcloseddoors conduct and comments. In his latest salvo, Cummings told the BBCs political editor, Laura Kuenssberg, that Johnson did not want to reintroduce novel coronavirus restrictions in the fall of  because people dying from COVID disease at the time were essentially all over . Cummings told the broadcaster Johnson even began to regret ordering the first national lockdown, back in March, and said he was tempted to let the virus wash through the country, rather than order a lockdown that would destroy the economy. Cummings claimed that he, the UKs chief scientific adviser, Patrick Vallance, and Englands chief medical officer, Chris Whitty, all lobbied for an immediate reintroduction of the lockdown. But he said Johnson dragged his feet and texted No, no, no, no, no, Im not doing it. Cummings said Johnson was fearful rightwing sections of the British media and extreme elements in his ruling Conservative Party would not accept another lockdown. The former aide said the prime minister was essentially willing to put his own political interests ahead of peoples lives. In the oneonone interview with Kuenssberg, which was Cummings first such interrogation since losing his job, he claims Johnson noted in September and October that the median age of those dying from COVID was between  and  for men and  for women. The prime minister allegedly wrote to aides saying Hardly anyone under  goes into hospital... and of those, virtually all survive. And I no longer buy all this NHS National Health Service overwhelmed stuff. Folks, I think we may need to recalibrate ...There are max  million in this country aged over . However, on Oct , after behindthescenes wrangling and following the NHS predicting daily deaths were set to rise to several thousand, the prime minister announced a fourweek lockdown would start on Nov . The Guardian newspaper said Cummings claims, alongside text and WhatsApp messages that appear to corroborate them, will cast further doubt over the actions of the prime minister in the runup to the November lockdown. The Independent newspaper said Cummings has repeatedly accused the prime minister of acting too slowly ahead of the UKs second lockdown. The Financial Times quoted a spokesperson for the prime minister as saying Since the start of the pandemic, the prime minister has taken the necessary action to protect lives and livelihoods, guided by the best scientific advice. The spokesperson noted the government had led the fastest vaccination rollout in Europe, saved millions of jobs through the furlough scheme and prevented the NHS from being overwhelmed through three national lockdowns. Cummings has previously embarrassed Johnson and his government by claiming during a sevenhour committee meeting with members of Parliament that former health secretary Matt Hancock was not up to the job, and by saying in his blog that the prime minister had allowed party donors to pay for refurbishments to his home. But Cummings himself is a highly controversial figure who angered many people by ignoring national lockdown rules in  to drive hundreds of miles to visit family in northern England.