Wests chauvinism knows no bounds China Daily editorial
2021-07-20 19:49
yearold Jay Hernandez receives a dose of the PfizerBioNTech vaccine for the coronavirus disease COVID, during a vaccination event for local adolescents and adults outside the Bronx Writing Academy school in the Bronx borough of New York City, New York, US, June , . PhotoAgencies    Should objectivity matter in a survey? If a truthful gauging of opinion is sought then the answer is yes. Should objectivity matter when drawing up rankings? Again the answer is yes if meaningful comparisons are to be made. But a recent survey by Pew Research Center and rankings compiled by Bloomberg have opted for subjectivity in order to arrive at the conclusions they want. Bloombergs ranking of the COVID resilience of countries incredibly put the United States top and China in the eighth place. The Pew survey of , people in  advanced economies concluded that Chinas international image was broadly negative while positive views of the US had rebounded. To ensure the US secured the top spot, Bloomberg skewed the criteria for evaluating how a country performed in response to the pandemic. It says that the ability to essentially turn back the clock and return to prepandemic times is taking on an even greater significance, and an economys openness to the world is the most important element. With such a bias, Bloomberg was able to design the criteria for the rankings in such a manner that the US would be sure to be No . In the same way, the Pew survey was conducted in only  advanced economies about the global views of the worlds largest and secondlargest economies. The designer of the survey knew in advance the conclusion to be obtained. That the US reported more than , new infections on Monday flies in the face of the Bloomberg survey. Both the largest accumulated cases among all countries and the repeated rebounding of the daily cases suggest what a terrible job the US has done and is doing in its response to the pandemic. Even as far as COVID resilience is concerned, how can a country whose failure to contain the spread of the virus has resulted in the largest number of deaths of all countries have the nerve to say that it is the most resilient country in the world in responding to the pandemic? For the Pew survey, it cannot be said to be objective or representative. Its conclusion that Chinas international image remains broadly negative, only applies among , people surveyed in the  advanced economies. And most of these economies such as the socalled five eyes have been working hard to foster a negative impression of China. It is the chauvinism of the West that holds the  developed economies  since two went against the grain of the poll  can represent the nearly  member countries of the United Nations. It is colonialization of global public opinion to report the views of just more than , surveyed in these  economies as being representative of the whole world. Bloomberg and Pew Research Center should be ashamed of themselves.