Thailands welcoming doors for tourists open slowly
2021-07-19 09:36
Women receive the Sinovac coronavirus disease COVID vaccine as the Thai resort island of Phuket rushes to vaccinate its population amid the COVID outbreak in Phuket, Thailand, June , . PhotoAgencies    With Thailand welcoming back foreign tourists to select destinations, Ulas Mehmet Isci is cautiously optimistic that his tourism business will finally recover after it came to a standstill from early last year as the pandemic broke out. We really hope that tourism is going to come back in the next five to six months, or perhaps over the coming year, said Isci, chief executive officer of Tropics Travel, which operates travel agencies throughout Thailand, including Koh Samui Tours, Chiang Mai Tours, Phuket Tours and Krabi Tours. I see a sign of recovery, but the recovery may come a little slowly, Isci said. His business, in which tourist numbers dropped to zero at times over the past year, has recovered by only about  to  percent after Thailand began its reopening programs this month. Following a program that began allowing vaccinated foreign tourists into the resort island of Phuket from July , Thailand launched a similar scheme called Samui Plus on Thursday to enable travel to Koh Samui, the countrys secondlargest island after Phuket, via direct international flights or sealed routes from Bangkok. Unlike the program that allows quarantinefree travel, an expansion to it requires tourists to stay at an approved hotel in Koh Samui for a week and stay within their accommodation for the first three days, the Tourism Authority of Thailand said. Tourists with negative COVID test results will be allowed to travel to the neighboring islands of Koh Tao and Koh Phangan after their first week on Samui. Minister of Tourism and Sports Phiphat Ratchakitprakarn said the reopening of the three islands is another significant step toward achieving the goal set by Prime Minister Prayut Chanocha last month to reopen the whole country within  days, or by the end of October. The tourism authority expects as many as , tourists to arrive in the first month and generate at least  million baht  million for the local economy. The opening up of more islands comes even as Thailand experiences a rising number of COVID infections. Mainly driven by the highly contagious Delta variant, the country recorded more than , daily cases in the nine days to Saturday. Significant risk There is a significant risk in the Thai approach to reopening, given cases are not just increasing across the country but increasing aggressively, said Jeremy Lim, associate professor and director of global health of the Saw Swee Hock School of Public Health in the National University of Singapore. Thailand has yet to achieve the necessary levels of vaccination, a key to successful reopening, Lim said. The country had administered about . million doses of COVID vaccines by Sunday. It started the campaign in February. To realize its reopening plan, Thailand needs to have a threshold of  million people given first shots by early October. Bill Barnett, managing director of the hospitality consultancy C Hotelworks in Thailand, said he is still cautiously positive about Thailands reopening, given that only  people tested positive among about , travelers arriving in Phuket in the first two weeks.