FM Let Syria decide on its own future
2021-07-19 07:43
State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi greets Syrian President Bashar alAssad right during their meeting in Damascus, Syria, on Saturday. PhotoAgencies    Outside nations urged to lift unilateral sanctions, not seek regime change In a bid to help end turmoil in wartorn Syria, Beijing has urged outside countries to stop seeking another power transition there, scrap unilateral sanctions, endorse the countrys fight against terrorism and help it fix its internal political rifts. The four proposals were made by State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi during his visit to Syria over the weekend. Wang is paying official visits to Syria, Egypt and Algeria from Saturday to Tuesday. On Saturday, he elaborated on the proposals, which represent Beijings latest position on helping find a political solution on the Syria issue, during meetings with Syrian President Bashar alAssad and Foreign Minister Faisal Mekdad. Wang is the first foreign dignitary received by Assad since he won his fourth term as president in May. The Chinese foreign minister conveyed President Xi Jinpings cordial greetings to Assad and said Assads reelection reflects the strong trust and support of the Syrian people. Countries should respect Syrias sovereignty and territorial integrity and the choice of the Syrian people, abandon the illusion of regime change and let the Syrian people independently decide the future and destiny of the country, Wang said. Beijing firmly supports Damascus independently exploring its development path and safeguarding national unity and dignity, Wang added. Sanctions imposed on Syria by some Western countries, such as the United States, have drawn widespread criticism as the sanctions are believed to have undermined reconstruction efforts and aggravated the humanitarian crisis. Zhang Jun, Chinas permanent representative to the United Nations, noted at a meeting of the UN Security Council on July  that the international community has a broad consensus on the impact of unilateral sanctions on Syrias humanitarian situation, and UN SecretaryGeneral Antonio Guterres has called for the measures to be lifted. Wang said the fundamental fix to the humanitarian crisis in Syria is to immediately lift all unilateral sanctions and economic blockades against Syria. He pointed out that any international humanitarian assistance should respect Syrias sovereignty and must not affect its sovereignty and territorial integrity. On fighting terrorism in Syria, Wang said countries should crack down on all terrorist organizations listed by the UN Security Council and not adopt double standards in this regard. He stressed the need to respect the Syrian governments achievements and the leading role it has played in fighting terrorism, while warning against manipulation that seeks separatism in the country under the pretext of counterterrorism. Assad said that Syria sincerely appreciates Chinas great help and its fair position on the Syrian issue. Syria is committed to deepening its friendly cooperation with China and supports China unconditionally on issues related to Taiwan, Xinjiang and Hong Kong, Assad said. The Belt and Road Initiative and the battle against COVID marked other major highlights of Wangs Syria trip. On bilateral cooperation, Wang said China will continue offering strong support to Syria in its COVID fight by providing vaccines and other medical supplies, and it will support the country speeding up its reconstruction. Beijing welcomes Damascus to become a new partner in jointly building the Belt and Road Initiative, Wang added. Assad expressed Syrias readiness to take part in cobuilding the Belt and Road, strengthening cooperation with China in the fields of the economy, science, culture and education and joining hands in the fight against terrorism. On Saturday, Wang also attended a ceremony with Mekdad for signing cooperative agreements. During their talks, Wang said China stands firmly on the side of the Syrian people and on the side of international justice in terms of the major, principled issue of safeguarding national sovereignty and independence. Mekdad endorsed China as an important and close friend of Syria, and said Syria is ready to sign a deal with China on cobuilding the Belt and Road. He expressed heartfelt gratitude to China for providing Syria with timely assistance at its toughest moments to preserve its national sovereignty and integrity.