Xis speech at APEC meeting hailed globally
2021-07-19 07:02
President Xi Jinping delivers a speech at an informal leaders meeting of the AsiaPacific Economic Cooperation via video link in Beijing on Friday, July , . PhotoXinhua    China to provide more support centering on economic recovery in developing countries President Xi Jinpings speech at an informal AsiaPacific Economic Cooperation meeting on Friday has bolstered confidence in the global fight against the COVID pandemic and economic recovery via Chinas substantial efforts to fight the pandemic as well as its determination to promote multilateralism, global experts said. Addressing APECs Informal Economic Leaders Retreat via video link, Xi called on APEC economies to strengthen solidarity and cooperation to overcome the impact of the COVID pandemic and boost global economic recovery. Xi made a fourpronged proposal for AsiaPacific cooperation strengthen international cooperation on the COVID response deepen regional economic integration pursue inclusive and sustainable development and seize opportunities for scientific and technological innovation. In his speech, Xi said China has so far provided more than  million doses of vaccine to other developing countries and will provide another  billion in international aid over the next three years to support the COVID response and economic and social recovery in other developing countries. Dicky Budiman, an epidemiologist at Griffith University in Australia, said Xis speech demonstrated Chinas commitment to supporting global vaccine cooperation and in waiving the intellectual property rights on COVID vaccine. Budiman said this is very important for lower and middleincome countries, many of them in Asia and in Africa, as it will give their population protection from the virus. Xi also called for global cooperation to end the pandemic. Its time for all countries to have strong collaboration, because we cant let other countries be left behind, Budiman said. Andy Brooks, general secretary of the New Communist Party of Britain, hailed Chinas leading role in tackling the pandemic and providing immense assistance to other countries in the battle against the virus. We are indeed a global village, and, if we stand together, we can overcome the COVID plague. Hopefully, the countries of the industrialized West will now support the Chinese proposal to waive intellectual property rights on COVID vaccines to speed the global recovery, Brooks said. Dennis Munene, executive director of the ChinaAfrica Center at the Africa Policy Institute, said Xis remarks sent a message against the incoming order of vaccine imperialism, advocating for peaceful cooperation among civilizations in a time of adversity. To defeat the coronavirus and boost vaccination worldwide, Munene said, China has pledged to work with other parties and take an active part in cooperation initiatives to keep vaccine supply chains stable and safe and support the movement of essential goods through adhering to the principles of multilateralism. Yuzo Tanaka, a professor of economics at Ryukoku University in Kyoto, said Chinas pledge to set up an APEC fund for pandemic response will facilitate a speedy and balanced recovery between haves and havenots. He added that the move is in the common interests and moral duty of all APEC members. Ronnie Lins, director of the ChinaBrazil Center for Research and Business, said Xis speech is of great significance as it provides a feasible plan for the international community to cooperate in fighting the COVID pandemic and promoting economic recovery. As to the negative impact of COVID on the world economy, Lins said that only by promoting multilateralism can the global economy recover sooner, adding that the Chinaproposed Belt and Road Initiative will help enhance cooperation among countries along the routes. Joe Thomas Karackattu, associate professor at the Department of Humanities and Social Sciences and faculty incharge of the China Studies Center at the Indian Institute of Technology Madras, said Xis focus on the revival of economic growth under the current circumstances was encouraging. This is encouraging as he focused on many opportunities that are present even in the middle of the pandemic. The opportunities include the rise of digital economies, more vaccine outreach, and other tourism opportunities, Karackattu said. Wayne Huang, principal of the Institute of Commercial Education New Zealand, expressed his belief that China will play an important role in promoting an inclusive, sustainable and resilient recovery in the AsiaPacific region and the rest of the world. Chinas rapidly developing economy and its large consumer base provide a huge market for the AsiaPacific region and the rest of the world, he said. Zhao Ruinan in Beijing and Xinhua contributed to this story.