Xiplomacy Xis remarks on building AsiaPacific community with shared future
2021-11-11 13:49
President Xi Jinping delivers a keynote speech at the AsiaPacific Economic Cooperation APEC CEO Summit via video, in Beijing, capital of China, Nov . PhotoXinhua    BEIJING  President Xi Jinping on Thursday urged the AsiaPacific region to face up to the responsibility of the times, be in the drivers seat, and strive hard to meet the goal of building an AsiaPacific community with a shared future. Working together, let us all be promoters of and contributors to unity and prosperity of the AsiaPacific family, Xi said. Xi made the remarks while delivering a keynote speech at the AsiaPacific Economic Cooperation APEC CEO Summit via video. On multiple occasions, the Chinese president has called for strengthened cooperation in the AsiaPacific region, charting a course for the region to build a community with a shared future. Let us stand with each other in solidarity, promote antiCOVID cooperation and economic recovery, and work for a bright future of prosperity for all in the AsiaPacific, Xi said on July  while addressing the APEC Informal Economic Leaders Retreat via a video link. With concrete actions, China has walked the talk in promoting antiCOVID cooperation and economic recovery. Its efforts to enhance international vaccine cooperation have earned praise among APEC members, with heads of state, senior officials, health workers and ordinary people voting for Chinese vaccines. In Indonesia, President Joko Widodo took the lead in receiving the shot of the Chinesemade vaccine. In Chile, President Sebastian Pinera said that the arrival of a flight carrying Chinese vaccines marked a day of joy, excitement and hope. So far, China has provided over . billion doses of vaccines to more than  countries and international organizations, and will provide over  billion doses to the world in the whole year. Today, the world is undergoing profound changes in a century that are compounded by the pandemic, with unilateralism and protectionism on the rise, and economic globalization facing headwinds. At this critical moment, how can the AsiaPacific region, an important engine of world economic growth, continue to contribute to global development? Xis remarks made about six years ago are still inspiring. Facing the dangerous rapids and shoals in the world economy, we must steer the giant ship of the AsiaPacific in the right direction. All economies in the region must act in a responsible manner and work in unison to promote global growth, the Chinese leader said at the APEC CEO Summit in . In this regard, China has played a pioneering role, especially in providing platforms to promote common growth, such as the China International Import Expo CIIE. The fourth CIIE held on Nov.  has attracted nearly , businesses from  countries and regions. The fourth China International Import Expo is held under the global pandemic background. It gives me strong confidence that China is still keeping an openingup policy and efficiently controls COVID, said Roy van den Hurk, general manager of Theland Global RD at Milk New Zealand Dairy. Its huge consumer market helps foreign trade enterprises like us to find opportunities in the green food industry and promote global economic recovery, he said. Addressing the opening ceremony of the fourth CIIE, Xi said China has overcome the impact of COVID to achieve innovative growth in foreign trade. As the only major economy to register positive growth of trade in goods last year, China has made important contributions to keeping global industrial and supply chains stable and boosting world economic recovery. Future development concerns the interests of everyone, and the members of the AsiaPacific region must move forward together. Like a vast ocean, the AsiaPacific offers enough sailing space for us to make progress together. Each and every APEC member has a stake in the future development of the AsiaPacific, Xi said at the APEC CEO Summit in . China supports the AsiaPacific region in continuing to enhance the inclusiveness of its economic development, so that people can share the fruits. Besides sustainable development cooperation and work to implement the  Agenda for Sustainable Development, Xi has also emphasized the importance of innovation in the AsiaPacific region. In a boat race, those who row the hardest will win. If we do not move proactively to adapt to the surging tide of new scientific revolution and industrial transformation, we risk missing valuable opportunities or even falling behind the times, he said at the APEC CEO Summit in . From developing digital economy to taking smart antiepidemic measures and building smart cities, China and AsiaPacific partners continue to deepen innovation cooperation, which will add fresh impetus to economic growth and creat new points where their interests converge. In a phone conversation with Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern of New Zealand on Friday, Xi stressed that China supports New Zealands role as the host of the  APEC meetings, and is willing to work with all other parties to push for positive results in the APEC informal economic leaders meeting. In doing so, he said, they can inject new impetus into the AsiaPacific regions efforts to fight the COVID pandemic, advance economic recovery, promote regional development and prosperity, and build an AsiaPacific community with a shared future.