China, Syria vow to boost bilateral cooperation
2021-07-18 06:50
Chinese State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi meets withhis Syrian counterpart Faisal Mekdad in Damascus, Syria, July , . PhotoXinhua    DAMASCUS  The foreign ministers of China and Syria met here on Saturday, vowing to enhance the ties and cooperation between the two countries. During a meeting with his Syrian counterpart Faisal Mekdad, Chinese State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi said that the ChinaSyria friendship becomes stronger after having withstood the tests of global and regional challenges during the past  years since the establishment of their diplomatic ties. The two sides have been understanding and supporting each other on the issues of mutual interests and concerns, Wang noted, stressing that China firmly stands with the Syrian people and adheres to international justice in preserving Syrias sovereignty and independence. Wang said that China will work together with Syria to promote the traditional friendship, boost friendly cooperation, protect common interests, and safeguard the goals and principles of the UN Charter, international fairness and justice, and the legitimate rights of developing countries. Based on equity and mutual respect, China will further the partytoparty exchanges with Syria and share governance experience, the Chinese senior diplomat said. He expressed Chinas appreciation of Syrias understanding of and support for Chinas core interests, while reaffirming Chinas steadfast support for Syria in exploring its development path in accordance with its own conditions and playing an important role in preserving regional peace and stability. Meanwhile, China will continue providing COVID vaccines and other medical supplies to help Syria defeat the COVID pandemic, Wang said. As partners in building the Belt and Road Initiative BRI, China and Syria will jointly discuss the effective ways to push forward mutually beneficial cooperation, especially in fields of agriculture and trade, which will help Syria improve livelihood and accelerate reconstruction, the Chinese diplomat said. On the antiterror cooperation, Wang said that China is ready to boost antiterror cooperation with Syria, improve Syrias antiterror capacity, and safeguard each others national security, while making contribution to global security. For his part, Mekdad lauded China for being an important and close friend of Syria. Syria and China have been constantly cementing the bilateral ties and cooperation since the establishment of the diplomatic relations  years ago, he noted. Mekdad expressed his heartfelt gratitude to China for providing Syria with timely assistance at its toughest moments to preserve its national sovereignty and integrity. He congratulated the Communist Party of China CPC on its th anniversary of founding, adding that Syria condemns all smear attacks, by word or deed, against China, and opposes any foreign interference in Chinas domestic affairs. The Syrian minister vowed that Syria will always firmly stand with China in any circumstance, while expressing the belief that the Chinese people will make even greater achievements under the CPC leadership. Also, Syria appreciates Chinas help in its fight against the COVID pandemic and the Chinese aid for Syrias reconstruction, Mekdad said. He added that Syria is ready to sign a deal with China on jointly building the BRI, and boost bilateral cooperation in the fields of trade, agriculture, infrastructure and connectivity, and combating terrorism.