Athens Marathon to return this weekend after pandemic break
2021-11-11 10:14
Athletes at the start of the th Athens Classic Marathon race in Marathon village, km east of Athens, Greece, Nov , . PhotoIC    ATHENS  Greece is set to host the th Athens Classic Marathon race and parallel courses this weekend after last years break due to the COVID pandemic, organizers told a press conference here on Wednesday. A total of , runners will participate in the km course and the km and km races under strict application of the safety protocol for sports events, Sofia Sakorafa, President of the Hellenic Athletics Federation SEGAS, said. Only the fully vaccinated runners and the runners with proof of recovery from COVID until  days before their kit collection from the registration center can participate in the  Athens Marathon event, according to the organizers who also include Attica Region, the Municipalities of Athens and Marathon and the Hellenic Olympic Committee. The shorter distance races will be held on Saturday and the km race on Sunday. Despite challenges and limitations due to the pandemic, it the Athens marathon remains an emblematic race for every longdistance race lover, she stressed. That is why in recent years, organizers have added the word authentic in the annual events title to highlight that it is distinguished from all other races because this is where everything started  centuries ago. As far as the organizers are concerned, the Athens marathon allows runners to have the opportunity to follow in the footsteps of the legendary ancient soldier Pheidippides who first ran the  km route from the battlefield of Marathon beach to Athens in  BC to inform Athenians of the victory against Persian forces. According to the legend, he collapsed and died of exhaustion after making the announcement. Since the revival of the Olympic Games and the Marathon race in the first modern Olympics in Athens in , thousands of runners have run the authentic course. A new record of , participants from  countries and regions was set in . Last year the event was canceled due to the pandemic. Athletes and amateur runners are eager for a comeback. It cost us a lot because we love to run this race. I would like to believe that we will never have such misfortunes, difficulties again, Konstantinos Gkelaouzos, a Greek longdistance runner who had won the Athens marathon, said at the press conference. We have finally overcome the problem of COVID and we will all be together at the starting point to celebrate. I wish good luck to all participants, Greek longdistance runner Gloria Priviletzio added. All runners crossing the finish line inside the Panathenaic stadium will receive a collective medal designed this year by prominent Greek sculptor Costas Varotsos. It is the second in a series of special medals, which will be awaiting runners every year until  for the th anniversary of the first Marathon race of modern times. This years medal will show The Runner, an emblematic sculpture created by Varotsos three decades ago which has been placed near the Panathenaic stadium. The struggle to get from one point to another through obstacles is a daily affair that we all struggle with. The medal I made is based on that thought, Varotsos explained on Wednesday after the presentation of the medal.