Chinas solid recovery benefits world China Dailyeditorial
2021-07-14 20:07
Containers await shipping at a port in Xiamen, Fujian province. Photo by WANG XIEYUNCHINA DAILY    Despite the COVID pandemic still ravaging many parts of the world and exacting devastating economic costs, Chinas economy has bounced back. Trade and investment figures for the first half of the year reflect the Chinese economys robustness and resilience thanks mainly to the governments stringent and effective prevention and control measures and the extensive policy support it has extended to businesses. The countrys foreign trade surged . percent yearonyear to . trillion yuan . trillion in the first six months, its best performance in history, according to the General Administration of Customs on Tuesday. It is notable that the growth marks a . percent rise even compared with the preepidemic level in , indicating solid economic recovery and strong global demand for Chinese exports. On the investment front, foreign capital continued to flow into the Chinese mainland, lured by its massive market and markedly improved investment environment, with foreign direct investment increasing . percent yearonyear to . billion yuan in the first half of the year. That volume also surpassed the  figure  by . percent  the Ministry of Commerce said on Wednesday. These achievements have not come easily, especially given that locally transmitted COVID cases are still reported in different parts of the country from time to time. For example, activity at Yantian port in Shenzhen, Guangdong province, was reduced to  percent of its normal levels after a coronavirus infection was detected there in late May. Yet it returned to normal in late June thanks to an emergency response plan the worlds fourthbusiest port launched to cut processing time for paperwork and speed up transfers of ships to other ports, reflecting Chinas significantly enhanced capacity to deal with emergencies. Chinas robust economic performance is a boon for the rest of the world, as the country  the only major economy to record positive growth last year  continues to contribute to global recovery and the antipandemic fight. China has so far provided  million doses of COVID vaccines and raw materials to more than  countries and international organizations, equivalent to onesixth of the global output of COVID vaccines. The fact that Chinas exports have withstood so many coronavirusinduced woes as well as disruptions in the global flow of industrial components such as processor chips to maintain a strong growth momentum underscores the irreplaceable role that the country plays in the global supply chains. This should serve as a source of confidence in the countrys economic prospects for the second half of the year despite uncertainties in the global pandemic situation.