China to send largestever team to an overseas Olympics
2021-07-14 17:53
Members of Chinas sailing team are seen at the competition site in Kanagawa prefecture, Japan, July , . PhotoXinhua    China on Wednesday announced that it will send  athletes, including  Olympic champions, in its largestever delegation for an overseas Olympics to the delayed Tokyo Summer Games, which will open on July . As part of the delegations rigorous COVID countermeasures, . percent of delegation members, which also include  coaches, trainers and officials, have been vaccinated ahead of their trips to the Japanese capital, according to the General Administration of Sport of China. The delegation is made up of  mens and  womens athletes, who will compete in  events across  sports at the Games, which feature a total number of  events in  sports on its official program. Led by  Olympic champions, the Chinese delegation will count on athletes from six traditionally strong sports  table tennis, diving, weightlifting, shooting, gymnastics and badminton  to bolster its medal hopes in Tokyo, where they are expected to win more gold medals than the total  the country won at the last Games in Rio in . To improve competitiveness in some Westerndominated sports, such as track and field, rowing and water polo, the Chinese delegation has hired  foreign coaches and physical trainers from  countries to help Chinese athletes prepare for the Tokyo Games. With the COVID outbreak still a major concern in Tokyo and surrounding regions, the Japanese capital entered its fourth state of emergency on Monday, causing bars and restaurants to close early, amid a rebound in positive cases that had forced the International Olympic Committee and the Japanese organizers last week to ban spectators from nearly all venues. The Chinese delegation has reiterated that it will follow all necessary COVID control and prevention measures, not just imposed by the host but also from its own health protocols. To avoid getting infected will be the top priority for all teams in Tokyo.