bln doses needed to vaccinate  pct of world to end COVID UN chief
2021-07-14 08:57
Photo taken on March ,  shows AstraZenecaOxford vaccines from COVAX vaccine sharing program being unloaded from a plane at Entebbe International Airport, Uganda. PhotoXinhua    UNITED NATIONS  United Nations SecretaryGeneral Antonio Guterres said on Tuesday that  billion doses are needed to vaccinate  percent of the world to end the COVID pandemic. Pledges of doses and funds are welcome  but they are not enough. We need at least  billion doses to vaccinate  percent of the world and end this pandemic, the UN chief told the opening of the ministerial segment of the Highlevel Political Forum on Sustainable Development, which is the top platform for reviewing the implementation of the  Agenda for Sustainable Development and its  Sustainable Development Goals. Everyone, everywhere, must have access to COVID vaccines, tests, treatments and support, said the top UN official. The development and rollout of vaccines, including through the global equity mechanism, the ACTAccelerator and its COVAX facility, is offering hope, said the secretarygeneral. Noting that there is uneven access to these tools, especially vaccines, around the world and within countries, the UN chief said that a global vaccination gap threatens us all because as the virus mutates, it could become even more transmissible, or even more deadly. The world needs a Global Vaccination Plan to at least double the production of vaccines, ensure equitable distribution through COVAX, coordinate implementation and financing, and support national immunization programs, said Guterres. To realize this plan, I have been calling for an Emergency Task Force that brings together the countries that produce and can produce vaccines, the World Health Organization, the ACTAccelerator partners and international financial institutions, able to deal with the relevant pharmaceutical companies and manufacturers, and other key stakeholders, the secretarygeneral spelled out. Right now, it is essential to fully finance the ACTAccelerator and support the  billion US dollar investment roadmap, to be led by the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank, the World Health Organization and the World Trade Organization, to end the pandemic and secure a global recovery, said the secretarygeneral.