Treaty aids quest for safer medicines on continent
2021-11-11 09:36
Healthcare workers assist patients being treated at a makeshift hospital run by charity organisation The Gift of the Givers, during the coronavirus disease COVID outbreak in Johannesburg, South Africa, July , . PhotoAgencies    The Treaty for the Establishment of the African Medicines Agency has entered into force after more than half the African Unions  member states signed on to the treaty, paving the way for the agency to begin operations. Uganda last week became the latest country to sign the treaty. In , the Bureau of the African Union Heads of State and Government endorsed a new treaty for the establishment of the African Medicines Agency to enhance the capacity of countries to regulate medical products. However, the COVID pandemic has escalated the need for a continental agency that is able to fasttrack approval for crucial vaccines and other medical products. The African Union Commission celebrates and welcomes this great milestone that opens a new chapter for harmonization and regulation of the African pharmaceutical landscape across the continent, and the efforts to improve weak regulatory systems, said Amira Elfadil Mohammed, the AU commissioner for health, humanitarian affairs and social development. The commission acknowledges with thanks the support of the highlevel advocacy mission that contributed to the realization of the  ratifications that were needed to bring the treaty into force. The commission also acknowledges the support and efforts of the AU Development Agency, the World Health Organization and all stakeholders in contributing to the achievement of this important milestone. Formal entity The treaty was made official on Friday, clearing the way for the African Medicines Agency to begin operations as a formal entity. South Africa, Nigeria, Kenya and Ethiopia are among the  AU member states that have yet to sign the treaty which is expected to coordinate and support vigilance of the pharmaceutical industry on the continent. Michel Sidibe, the AUs special envoy for the African Medicines Agency, said the AU continues to encourage all its member states to sign and ratify the treaty in the interest of public health, safety and security. In a message posted on social media, WHO DirectorGeneral Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said the establishment of the treaty is a crucial step toward a healthier, safer and fairer Africa.