COVID vaccine shortage hits Indian capital, several states
2021-07-13 15:51
Villagers wait to receive a dose of COVISHIELD vaccine, a coronavirus disease COVID vaccine manufactured by Serum Institute of India, during Vaccination on boat programme in Gosaba Island in the eastern state of West Bengal, India, July , . PhotoAgencies    NEW DELHI  The Indian capital city Delhi and several others states have claimed their ongoing COVID vaccination programme has been affected by a shortage of vaccine stocks. According to officials, several governmentrun vaccination centers in Delhi will remain closed on Tuesday because the city has exhausted its Covishield vaccine stock. Vaccines have run out in Delhi again. The federal government gives vaccines for a day or two, then we have to keep the vaccine centers closed for several days. Why is our countrys vaccine programme faltering even after so many days? Delhis Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Monday wrote on social media while sharing a news report on the shortage of vaccines. Reports said on Monday that only , COVID vaccine doses could be administered in Delhi against around , daily vaccine doses being administered on average earlier. Over the past few days, several states have flagged an acute shortage in COVID vaccine supply, affecting their inoculation drive. Maharashtra states local health minister Rajesh Tope was quoted by a local news agency as saying that they have the capacity to vaccinate . million people daily, but as of now, only , to , people are being inoculated due to a shortage of stock. In Odisha state, the inoculation drive has been stopped in  out of  districts with state health secretary P K Mohapatra telling media that the next consignment of the Covishield vaccine was expected to arrive in the state on July . Meanwhile, the federal government has refuted claims of COVID vaccine shortage and clarified that all states are informed well in advance about the number of vaccines to be sent to them. It is clarified that all states are being informed much in advance about the doses that will be available during the month of July , including the supply to private hospitals. The states have been advised to plan their COVID vaccination sessions based on the availability of the vaccines, the federal health ministry said last week in a statement. On Tuesday morning the health ministry said so far over  million doses have been administered across the country. The ministry however does not give the populationwise break up of how many have received a single dose and how many were given the required two doses. The Indian government aims to vaccinate the entire population by the end of this year. Experts said India needs to administer  million doses a day to achieve its aim of inoculating the adult population by December.