I might cry tears of joy when Olympic flame is lit at opening ceremony, says JOC president Yamashita
2021-07-13 14:26
Yasuhiro Yamashita,president of the Japan Olympic Committee, speaks at a news conference in Tokyo, on June , . PhotoAgencies    TOKYO  When the Olympic flame is finally lit at the opening ceremony of the Tokyo Games in just  days, Yasuhiro Yamashita, president of the Japan Olympic Committee JOC, said that he might be crying tears of joy. The Games have been postponed by one year due to the COVID pandemic and will kick off on the night of July . When the sacred flame is lit, I will be as emotional as all the athletes, the Japanese judo legend said. I might cry with joy. In an interview with Xinhua at his office overlooking the Olympic Stadium, Yamashita admitted that pushing back the games by one year is a right and hard decision. We had no other choice, he said. The pandemic is much worse than originally predicted. Every time we think that its easing off, it turns serious again. And now we are entering a state of emergency for the fourth time. I think the most difficult thing is how to deal with the pandemic. Yamashita, who was reelected as JOC president last month, said that safety is still the priority of the Games. The COVID situation has not changed for the better, he said. This makes me worry all the time. Athletes from all over the world are coming to Japan. What I care about most is to ensure they have a good and safe environment. He said that he never thought about canceling the Games even during the most difficult time. I had thought that we could hold the Games without spectators, but never thought about the cancellation. We will not only hold the Games in a safe and secure manner but also well contain the pandemic in Tokyo and other places of Japan so that the athletes can return home without being infected. By doing all these things, we can say that we have successfully held the Olympics. I hope that I can enjoy the successful moment at that time. No athlete knows better than Yamashita about how precious it is to compete at the Olympics. After qualifying for the  Moscow Olympics, the judo heavyweight couldnt compete because Japan had pulled out of the Games after the Soviet Unions  invasion of Afghanistan. He had to wait for another four years to win his only Olympic gold medal at the  Los Angeles Olympics. By postponing the Games, many athletes have missed the onceinalifetime chance to compete at the Olympic Games. Even if you can compete in two or three Olympics, you usually have only one time to stay in peak shape during the Olympics. He believed that with up to  percent of athletes fully vaccinated and details of countermeasures ready in the playbooks, there should be no problem to have a successful Games.