Olympics test for hosts as well as competitors
2021-07-13 07:50
Tokyo  Olympics Organising Committee President Seiko Hashimoto arrives at a news conference after a meeting with local municipalities working group hosted by the government in Tokyo, Japan, June , , on the day to mark one month to go until the opening of the Olympic Games that have been postponed to  due to the coronavirus disease COVID outbreak. PhotoAgencies    The Japanese government announced on Thursday, due to the resurgence of the COVID epidemic, Tokyo, Kanagawa, Saitama and Chiba prefectures would be in a state of emergency from Monday to Aug . That means the  Tokyo Olympics, which was postponed from last year because of the outbreak of the novel coronavirus, will be staged from July  to Aug  this year with many events going on without spectators. It also means that the tourism, commercial and entertainment activities, all key drivers for growth and boosters for government revenues, will be restricted. The Japanese government made the decision after the daily increase of new cases in the country rose from around  last month to about  this month. Although that figure still pales compared with the most hardhit countries, most of the cases are in the aforementioned prefectures with Tokyo as the centerthe host city accounts for twothirds of the new cases appearing in the countryand that already nears the peak level of last year during the nations first wave of the virus, when the difficult decision was made that the Games would have to be postponed. Given that only  percent of its population has received two jabs of a COVID vaccine, in contrast with . percent in the United States and about  percent in the United Kingdom, it remains to be seen whether the country can address the pandemic prevention and control challenge posed by the Olympics Games, which will represent the largest international gathering since the outbreak of the virus. Not to mention the fact that the high inoculation rate in some developed countries has not prevented the new variants of the virus, such as the Delta variant, from gaining footholds in them. To marshal public support for the Olympic Games amid a rising call that it should be canceled, the Japanese government claimed earlier this year that the epidemic is controllable. However, the worsening of the epidemic situation in the country proves the government has yet to develop the capability to bring the virus under control. Thats why those calling for canceling the Games, including many public health experts, have never stopped lobbying the government to do so. Surveys show that . percent of Japanese people worry that the Olympic Games will worsen the epidemic situation in the country and beyond. To prepare for the Games has already cost Japan about . billion, of which at least . billion is government funds. Since  percent of the revenue from Olympic Games comes from television rights, as long as the Games are held, even if there are no spectators in the venues, Japan will still be able to retrieve some of its expenditure.