Chinese vaccines key to worlds fight against COVID
2021-07-12 07:52
An airfreight worker unwraps a container of Chinas Sinovac vaccines at the Oscar Arnulfo Romero International Airport in San Luis Talpa, El Salvador, on Wednesday. PhotoAgencies    As of Friday, China has provided  million doses of COVID vaccines and concentrates used for production to more than  countries and international organizations, accounting for onesixth of global COVID vaccine production, a Foreign Ministry official said. Guo Xuejun, deputy director of the ministrys Department of International Economic Affairs, told Xinhua News Agency late Friday that China opposes vaccine nationalism and has actively supported other developing countries in their vaccine production and rollout. These countries include the United Arab Emirates, Indonesia, Malaysia, Egypt, Brazil, Turkey, Pakistan and Mexico, with a total production capacity of over  million doses, he said. Of the  countries involved in the Belt and Road Initiative,  proposed importing Chinese vaccines in the first half of this year, Guo said, adding that China has proactively responded to all these countries demands and promptly provided vaccines. Our next step will be continuing to enhance our vaccine cooperation with various parties, further improve the accessibility and affordability of vaccines in developing countries, and make greater contributions to fighting the pandemic and promoting economic recovery, Guo said. CoronaVac, the COVID vaccine developed by Chinas Sinovac Biotech, has been found to be . percent effective in protecting against symptomatic infection and has had no reported cases of severe adverse events, according to interim data from phase three clinical trials in Turkey published in the journal The Lancet on Thursday. The trials involved more than , participants and found the vaccine can induce a robust antibody response after two shots. CoronaVac is an inactivated vaccine that uses a killed version of the whole virus to induce an immune response. It can be stored at  to  degrees Celsius and has been approved for emergency use by  countries, including Thailand, Brazil, Uruguay and Ukraine. Last month, the World Health Organization also validated the vaccine for emergency use. One of the advantages of CoronaVac is that it does not need to be frozen, making it easier to transport and distribute. This could be particularly important for global distribution, as some countries may struggle to store large amounts of vaccine at very low temperatures, said Murat Akova, lead author of the Lancet study and a professor at Hacettepe University Faculty of Medicine in Ankara, Turkey. The interim study examined , participants aged  to  from Turkey who either received two doses of the vaccine or a placebo between Sept  and Jan . It found that the efficacy of the vaccine was . percent after two doses, and was  percent effective in preventing moderate and severe cases. However, the team also acknowledged that although the vaccine can induce an antibody response in  percent of recipients, the response decreased with increasing age of recipients. The study included a short followup period and a relatively young and lowrisk population. So more research is needed to confirm its efficacy over the long term, and it should be conducted with a more diverse group of participants. The vaccines ability to protect against emerging variants of SARSCoV should also be examined, the study said. As of Thursday, Chinas National Medical Products Administration said  COVID vaccines had been approved for clinical trials in the country. Four vaccines have been granted conditional market approval and three have been authorized for emergency use in China. Assistance welcomed Since China began assisting other countries COVID inoculation efforts, heads of state and government of many nations have expressed appreciation for the help and some have even personally welcomed the delivery of the Chinese vaccines at the airport. In February, Mozambican Prime Minister Carlos Agostinho do Rosario extended warm greetings to the Chinese government and people on behalf of Mozambique. He said that, in the joint fight against the pandemic, China has shown brotherly friendship with the Mozambican people, and he thanked the Chinese government and people for their support. The same month, Peruvian Prime Minister Violeta Bermudez said her country was delighted to receive the Chinese vaccine, which will help the country fight the pandemic. In March, Dominican VicePresident Raquel Pena welcomed the vaccines at the airport and expressed gratitude for Chinas support and assistance, saying the vaccine will certainly provide an important guarantee for an early victory against the pandemic in the Dominican Republic. The vaccine provided by China has saved lives and written a chapter of cooperation between China and the international community in the fight against the pandemic, she said, adding that China has played a praiseworthy role in the global antipandemic effort.