Colombian president tells Xi of gratitude
2021-07-10 08:16
Colombias President Ivan Duque speaks during an interview with Reuters in Bogota, Colombia, March , . PhotoAgencies    Colombian President Ivan Duque has extended his gratitude and greetings to President Xi Jinping, the Chinese government and the Chinese people for their support and assistance to the South American country in fighting COVID, saying bilateral ties will present a new outlook after the pandemic. Duque said in a video speech that his country is grateful to China for the latters support and aid since the two countries established diplomatic relations in , according to a news release issued on Friday. He particularly talked about Chinas support for his countrys COVID vaccination efforts, which, he said, has further brought the countries ties even closer, helped the friendship between the two nations further develop and created more development opportunities for the two peoples. Colombia sincerely thanks China for its material donations and technical aid, as well as its assistance in facilitating the purchase of Chinesemade COVID vaccines, Duque said. The Colombian president also mentioned Xis video speech delivered to the Colombian people in March. He said the Colombian people will remember Xis speech forever. Although the pandemic has kept the two peoples apart, their solidarity in fighting the virus will bring bilateral ties much closer, Duque said, adding that the two countries cooperation will reach a new stage. He wished China prosperity, the Chinese people happiness and the society harmony. The global COVID death toll surpassed  million on Wednesday, according to the Johns Hopkins University. The United States remains the worsthit country, accounting for more than  percent of the global death toll. Brazil recorded , deaths, followed by India with , fatalities. Countries with more than , fatalities also include Mexico, Peru, Russia, the United Kingdom and Italy. Xinhua contributed to this story.