Haiti police hunt down presidents assassins
2021-07-09 10:00
Members of the Haitian police and forensics mark a bullet on the street as they look for evidence outside of the presidential residence on July ,  in PortauPrince, Haiti. PhotoAgencies    Four mercenaries declared dead after brazen slaying deepens nations chaos PORTAUPRINCE, HaitiPolice officers were on Thursday hunting for more of the gunmen behind the assassination of Haitian president Jovenel Moise, with the nation under a state of siege. Security forces engaged in a fierce shootout with assailants in the capital PortauPrince early on Wednesday after the overnight attack on the presidents private residence. The police had killed four of the mercenaries and captured two more, Police General Director Leon Charles said late on Wednesday, adding that security forces would not rest until they had all been dealt with. We blocked them en route as they left the scene of the crime, he said. Since then, we have been battling with them. They will be killed or apprehended. Moise, a yearold former businessman who took office in , was shot dead and his wife, Martine Moise, was seriously wounded when heavily armed assassins stormed the couples home at around  am. Haitis ambassador to the United States, Bocchit Edmond, said in an interview that the gunmen had masqueraded as US Drug Enforcement Administration agents as they entered Moises guarded residence under the cover of nightfalla move that would likely have helped them gain entry. The brazen assassination drew condemnation from the United Nations Security Council, the US and some neighboring countries. The UN Security Council condemned the assassination and called on all parties to remain calm, exercise restraint and to avoid any act that could contribute to further instability. The US is Haitis top aid donor and has long exerted an outsized influence in its politics. US President Joe Biden denounced the killing as heinous and called the situation in Haitiwhich lies nearly , kilometers off the Florida coastworrisome. The Dominican Republic closed the border it shares with Haiti on the island of Hispaniola and beefed up security. State of emergency The Pan American Health Organization expressed concern on Wednesday that the violence could deal a setback to efforts to fight COVID in Haitione of only a handful of countries worldwide that have yet to administer a single shot of coronavirus vaccine. The government declared a twoweek state of emergency to help it hunt down the assassins, whom Edmond described as a group of foreign mercenaries and welltrained killers. The gunmen spoke English and Spanish, said interim Prime Minister Claude Joseph, who assumed leadership of the country, where most speak French or Haitian Creole. The first lady had been flown to Florida for treatment where she was in a stable condition, Joseph said. Haiti, a country of about  million people, has struggled to achieve stability in recent decades, and has grappled with a series of coups and foreign interventions. In recent years, Haiti has been buffeted by a series of natural disasters and still bears the scars of a major earthquake in . Many people in Haiti had wanted Moise to leave office. Ever since he took over in , he faced calls to resign and mass protestsfirst over corruption allegations and his management of the economy, then over his increasing grip on power. With the country politically polarized and facing growing hunger, fears of a breakdown in order are spreading. Moises murder came amid a power vacuum. The banana exporterturnedpolitician had ruled by decree for more than a year after the country failed to hold legislative elections. There are only  elected officials in the Haitian government, all of them senators. Just this week, he nominated a prime minister to replace Josephwho was only meant to be an interim premierbut the official has yet to be sworn in. The head of the Supreme Court of Justice died last month of COVID amid a worrying surge in infections and has yet to be replaced. Agencies  Xinhua