Indian govt announces  billion COVID fund after first cabinet reshuffle
2021-07-09 09:34
A health worker prepares a jab of Covaxin vaccine against the Covid coronavirus at a free vaccination camp in Siliguri, India on July , . PhotoAgencies    NEW DELHI  The Indian government Thursday approved a new emergency response package worth over  billion INR , crore to tackle the ongoing COVID pandemic. The announcement was made following the first meeting of Prime Minister Narendra Modis revamped cabinet. The union federal cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi today has approved a new scheme India COVID Emergency Response and Health System Preparedness Package PhaseII amounting to INR , crore for FY , a statement issued by the government said. This scheme aims to accelerate health system preparedness for immediate responsiveness for early prevention, detection and management, with the focus on health infrastructure development including for Paediatric Care and with measurable outcomes. Out of the over  billion package announced, over  billion will be spent by the centre and over  billion will be allocated to states. Mansukh Mandaviya Thursday took charge as Indias new federal health and family welfare minister. The federal health ministry was held by Harsh Vardhan. However, on Wednesday he and his junior minister Ashwini Chaube tendered resignations ahead of the major cabinet reshuffle. Both the ministers have been dropped in the new reshuffle. The change in guard at the health ministry has come at a time when India is in the midst of the COVID pandemic. In March , when the country was faced with the first wave of the COVID pandemic, the government announced a central sector scheme of INR , crore for the India COVID Emergency Response and Health Systems Preparedness Package to provide a critical impetus to the efforts for pandemic management. Since midFebruary this year, the country is experiencing a second wave with the pandemic spreading into rural, periurban and tribal areas.