Xi emphasizes SouthSouth cooperation
2021-07-09 06:44
State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi attends the fifth anniversary of the establishment of the SouthSouth Cooperation Assistance Fund and the Institute of SouthSouth Cooperation and Development in Beijing on Thursday. Kuang LinhuaChina Daily    Assistance fund, institute have played crucial role for developing countries China stands ready to work with developing countries to further unleash the potential of SouthSouth cooperation, share development opportunities with them and continue to help them achieve sustainable growth, President Xi Jinping said on Thursday. Xi made the remark in a congratulatory message on the fifth anniversary of the establishment of the SouthSouth Cooperation Assistance Fund and the Institute of SouthSouth Cooperation and Development. He commended the role the fund and institute have played in promoting SouthSouth cooperation since they were created in , saying that over the past five years, the fund has actively supported developing countries in implementing the  Agenda for Sustainable Development, tackling humanitarian crises, reducing poverty and pursuing development. The institute has been dedicated to sharing the governance experiences between China and other developing countries and has helped developing countries nurture highcaliber governance professionals, he added. Xi expressed hope that the fund and the institute would continue their great contributions to the building of a community with a shared future for mankind. Xi announced the founding of the fund and the institute in  during a series of summits commemorating the th anniversary of the United Nations. The fund works in support of other developing countries efforts to achieve the  Sustainable Development Goals and is an innovative tool for Chinese aid aimed at advancing SouthSouth cooperation. In close collaboration with more than  international organizations, the fund has supported over  livelihood projects in more than  countries, benefiting more than  million people, according to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The projects include response to tropical cyclones, the fight against Ebola and COVID, promoting maternal and child health and addressing refugee and migrant crises. The institute has received over  students from about  countries.