Study finds virus antibodies last at least  months
2021-07-08 09:27
A recovering pneumonia patient gives a thumbsup to medical workers at Wuhan Universitys Zhongnan Hospital, in early . GAO XIANGFOR CHINA DAILY    Antibodies against the novel coronavirus can last for at least  months in more than  percent of recovered COVID patients, a study published by Chinese researchers on Tuesday shows. The finding adds to growing evidence that vaccination, which elicits an immune response in a way similar to how a live virus triggers human bodies to generate antibodies, can effectively restrict the spread of SARSCoV, the study said. The study, published online by Nature Communications, was conducted by China National Biotech Group, a Sinopharm subsidiary, and the National Research Center for Translational Medicine at Shanghai Jiao Tong University. Researchers collected , convalescent plasma samples from  recovered COVID patients in Wuhan, Hubei province, within  months of diagnosis, and tested them for the presence and amount of RBDIgG, a type of antibody that indicates the strength of immunity against the virus. Testing results showed that in nine months, levels of the antibody dropped to . percent of the initial level when they contracted the virus, and then stabilized into the th month. It shows that once immune responses against the novel coronavirus are induced in human bodies, antibody levels can be maintained for quite a long time, China National Biotech Group said in an article on its WeChat account on Wednesday. The study found that the antibody response was significantly stronger in male participants than in their female counterparts in the early stages of infection, but the difference dwindled over time and nearly disappeared in  months. Among participants aged  to , the older ones developed higher antibody levels, it added. The company said the study is the longestrunning research aimed at examining the persistence of antibody response in recovered COVID patients. The finding was published as mass vaccination in China proceeds smoothly, with the country stepping up vaccine donations or sales overseas. As of Tuesday, about . billion doses of vaccines had been administered nationwide, the National Health Commission said on Wednesday. China National Biotech Group added that the study will help improve understanding of the immunological memory elicited by the virus, and provide guidance on future research into vaccineinduced immunity and future vaccination policies in China and abroad.