Malaysian firm aims to offer Chinese COVID vaccine to private sector by September
2021-07-07 16:52
Sapiah binti Mat Ajat, , gets a shot of Sinovac coronavirus disease COVID vaccine at home, administered by a healthcare worker in Sabak Bernam, Malaysia, July , . PhotoAgencies    KUALA LUMPUR  Malaysian firm Yong Tai Bhd, which has partnered Chinabased Shenzhen Kangtai Biological Products Co. Ltd. SZKT to supply Chineseproduced COVID vaccine in Malaysia, is targeting to offer its vaccines to private sector by September or October. Yong Tais chief executive officer Boo Kuang Loon said the group, which has an agreement with SZKT to supply  million doses per year with an additional option of  million if required, has commenced its trial vaccination. We are currently conducting the Phase III Clinical Trial in Malaysia and have made an application to the National Pharmaceutical Regulatory Agency for approval to use the vaccines here. If everything goes smooth, we aim to obtain the approval by September or October, he told Xinhua in a recent written interview. He also said the group plans to bring SZKT to Malaysia to set up a research and development center and a production plant, in a bid to ensure that Malaysia is equipped and well prepared to deal with the COVID outbreak in the long term or any potential threat by other viruses in future. It is also in line with Malaysian governments plan to develop the biotech industry to make Malaysia the hub of bio science in the region, he added. From the latest development, we foresee that the virus will continue to stay with us. Therefore, we believe the demand for vaccines will be high in the long term, he said. Boo is also confident that the vaccine developed by SZKT will be well accepted as it is of the same technology platform as the other two Chinese COVID vaccine developers Sinopharm and Sinovac. Moreover, as the Phase III Clinical Trial is conducted locally, it provides us the data to prove the safety and efficacy of the vaccine which will become more convincing for the public, he said. He noted that the technology of the Chinese vaccine is the inactivated virus vaccine, which has a good track record and has been accepted by most people. Malaysias regulators have given conditional approval to two Chinese COVID vaccines developed by Sinovac and CanSino respectively and the two vaccines are included in the countrys national vaccination program. Chinese vaccines are gaining momentum in Malaysia with more Malaysian firms jumping on Chinese vaccine distribution bandwagon. Leading Malaysian pharmaceutical company Pharmaniaga has partnered with Sinovac to complete the fillandfinish process locally, apart from importing finished products from China. The administration of Sinovac vaccine started in Malaysia in March. Meanwhile, CanSino is working with Malaysian firm Solution Group for the local manufacturing of its vaccine. In addition, another Malaysian firm MY E.G. Services announced in June that it would supply a batch of Chinesemade vaccines for the private market in Malaysia in August. It is confident that the vaccine, developed by Anhui Zhifei Longcom Biopharmaceutical Co. Ltd. and Chinese Academy of Sciences, can play an important role in accelerating the countrys drive toward achieving herd immunity against the COVID outbreak, according to the firm.