Zimbabweans give thumbs up to Chinese vaccines
2021-07-07 14:00
A nurse prepares a dose of the Sinopharm coronavirus disease COVID vaccine at Wilkins Hospital in Harare, Zimbabwe, March , . PhotoAgencies    After enduring a long, meandering COVID vaccination queue at Parirenyatwa Hospital, a major public hospital in Harare, capital of Zimbabwe, Rufaro Muchirahondo heaved a sigh of relief. The yearold teacher complained about the sluggish vaccination process but said she was very happy that she had finally received her first jab of the Chinesemade Sinopharm vaccine.  They are giving the first dose only. I think that they should decentralize the process to various other health centers like they did in the past, she said on Tuesday. I work with children at a school where I teach. I think that it is important for me to get vaccinated. It is the right thing for me to be safe and to stop spreading the virus, she added. Muchirahondo said the Sinopharm vaccine was not any different from any other vaccines, adding that all members of her family have already been vaccinated with it and none so far have reported any complications. Another woman, Annatoria Bwanya, said the vaccination process was easy and smooth for her as she was given preference as a senior citizen. It was just an ordinary injection and Im feeling fine. I would encourage anyone, particularly older people, to get jabbed to contain contamination, the year coach said after getting her first dose of the Sinopharm vaccine at Pairirenyatwa Hospital. Meanwhile, members of CAPS United Football, one of the countrys biggest football clubs, are getting their second dose of the Sinopharm vaccine at a Harare City Council clinic. Personally, I think that the vaccine is effective. That is why you see all of us have come to get our second dose. It is good to be safe and as well it is becoming a requirement if you mingle a lot with people as we do, said a team member, who cannot be named because he was not authorized to speak with the press. Zimbabwe has used mostly Chinese vaccines  Sinovac and Sinopharm  to roll out its vaccination program. On June , the country received , doses of Sinopharm to add to the . million doses already bought from Sinovac, , Sinopharm vaccines donated by China and , combined doses of Covaxin and Sputnik V donated by India and Russia. So far, about , people in the country have been vaccinated against COVID. Tonderayi Mukeredzi in Harare contributed to this story.