Japan mulls opening ceremony for VIPs only
2021-07-07 09:48
Tokyo  Olympic Games mascot Miraitowa poses with a display of the Olympic symbol after an unveiling ceremony of the symbol on Mt. Takao in Hachioji, west of Tokyo, Japan, April , , to mark  days before the start of the  Tokyo Olympic Games. PhotoAgencies    Japan is looking to bar all but VIP spectators for the opening ceremony of the Tokyo  Olympics, a local newspaper reported ahead of an expected meeting of Games officials mulling fresh restrictions as COVID infections rise. The Asahi Shimbun said on Tuesday that the government is arranging for the opening ceremony to be held with only a reduced number of VIP spectators, adding that events at large venues and those staged after  pm would be held without spectators. Citing unidentified sources, the report also said the number of VIPs, such as sponsors guests and diplomats, at the opening ceremony will be reduced sharply from an initial estimate of ,. In line with the report, local organizers pushed back the release of the results of a Games ticket lottery, from Tuesday to Saturday, citing a surge of coronavirus infections in the capital. Delayed by a year due to the coronavirus, the Games are set to open on July  amid concerns that they could become a superspreader event with tens of thousands converging on a country that has only . percent of its population fully vaccinated. Organizers had already banned overseas spectators and set a limit on domestic ones at , at each venue. However, as infections rise in Tokyo, the Japanese government, as early as Thursday, is likely to extend a state of quasiemergency in the capital and three nearby prefectures beyond an original end date of July . Possible revisions International Olympic Committee President Thomas Bach will arrive in Japan on Thursday for fiveway talks with local organizers. Local media report that a revised decision on spectator limits will be announced after the meeting. On Tuesday, local authorities confirmed that two workers at the Olympic Village have been infected with COVID. On Saturday, Tokyo reported  cases, the highest number in five weeks. Among them was a Serbian athlete who tested positive for the coronavirus at the airport.