Guangzhou health station can isolate , arrivals
2021-07-06 10:15
Kevin Baker, director of the American International School of Guangzhou, gives a thumbsup while being vaccinated. Photo by Zheng ErqiChina Daily    A new international health station will open in Guangzhou, capital of Guangdong province, in September to help prevent the importation of novel coronavirus infections. Huang Yihui, president of Guangzhou Red Cross Hospital, said it will have  staff members initially, including  medical personnel and  administrative ones. His hospital will provide medical services at the new station, which will be in Zhongluotan township in northern Guangzhous Baiyun district. All inbound passengers will be sent to the station for two weeks of quarantine upon their arrival in Guangzhou, meaning they will no longer need to be quarantined at designated hotels in the city. Currently, all inbound passengers must register a negative nucleic acid test result after  days of quarantine before they are allowed to leave their quarantine hotels. We want to construct a safe, comfortable and intelligent station to meet the growing demand for preventing and controlling imported coronavirus in the city, which is one of the major exit and entry ports on the Chinese mainland, Huang said. Covering an area of more than , square meters, the station will consist of  zones with facilities including a fever clinic, a comprehensive medical clinic, blood purification centers and laboratories to provide highquality diagnosis and treatment services for inbound passengers, he said. The station will have , independent isolation rooms. Wang Changxing, an office worker in Guangzhous Tianhe district, said a new international health station is needed to help screen for possible COVID patients and asymptomatic carriers among inbound passengers and strengthen centralized management of the growing number of arrivals expected when the country opens its doors wider in the months ahead. The current quarantine hotels in downtown areas are too scattered and too close to residential areas, he said. Gao Yuyue, deputy secretarygeneral of Guangzhous city government, announced the construction of the new health station late last month. Guangzhou Baiyun International Airport has opened more than  international flights linking the city to five continents, and about  percent of inbound passengers entering the mainland are doing so via Guangzhou. The Guangdong Provincial Health Commission said the province reported five imported COVID cases on Sunday, bringing its total to , patients, including , imported cases. As of Sunday,  patients remained in hospital.