Pfizer requests COVID booster shots for all adults
2021-11-10 12:16
A medical staff member administers a PfizerBioNTech coronavirus COVID vaccine at a VAXTOSCHOOL popup site at Life of Hope Center on Oct ,  in New York City. PhotoAgencies    Pfizer and BioNTech asked the US Food and Drug Administration FDA on Tuesday to grant emergency use authorization for their COVID vaccine booster shot for all people  and older. The FDA is expected to approve Pfizers request, and Moderna is expected to make a similar request. Health Canada authorized the use of Pfizers booster COVID vaccine for people age  and older on Tuesday. Pfizers booster shot is currently approved for certain subsets of adults in the United States people ages  and up, people living in longterm care facilities and people ages  to  at high risk of COVID because of either underlying medical conditions or working in highrisk settings such as first responders, education staff and grocery workers. It is given six months after completion of the initial twodose vaccination series. President Joe Biden expressed desire to provide booster shots to every adult American in August out of concern for the waning protection of vaccines after six months. The FDAs approval in September for Pfizers booster came after a panel of advisers to the agency voted against Pfizers request for authorization of the booster in all individuals aged  and above. The panelists suggested the evidence supporting broad approval was inadequate and they wanted to see more safety data, especially concerning the risk of heart inflammation in younger people after vaccination. The panel instead recommended boosters for people over the age of , or otherwise at increased risk from COVID. Since then, the FDA and Centers for Disease Control and Prevention have authorized booster shots for all three coronavirus vaccines in use in the US  including Johnson  Johnsons  for atrisk Americans. Recipients are also permitted to receive a booster shot made by a different company than their initial vaccine. Pfizer CEO Albert Bourla said Tuesday that annual booster shots are likely and that the protection from the vaccines third shot will probably fall after about a year. It looks like that it will last for a year, he said at an event hosted by the Atlantic Council think tank. Since the FDA began authorizing boosters, more than  million people have received the extra doses, including more than  million people who received PfizerBioNTechs, according to the CDC. Booster shots might help the US to stay at the current course of dwindling COVID infections and deaths. Europe and Central Asia are experiencing a jump of more than  percent in new coronavirus cases over the last month. The World Health Organization WHO has warned that the continent could see another , deaths by February. Dr Hans Henri Kluge, WHO regional director for Europe, said that insufficient vaccination coverage and the relaxation of public health and social measures are the primary reasons for another wave of coronavirus infections. Kluge told CBS News that Americans should absolutely be paying close attention to the situation in Europe right now. While some European countries achieved a vaccination rate of  percent, the rate for some mostly in Eastern Europe was as low as  percent. Relaxed rules about mask wearing at UKs public school is blamed for rising cases. Data show that vaccination helps to reduce COVID infection and related death. Statistics released this week by the Texas Health Department showed that, from midJanuary to October, nearly , Texans died from COVID. Unvaccinated people made up  percent of the reported COVID deaths. An Israeli observational study published in late October in The Lancet showed that a third booster shot increased immunity against coronavirus infection by about  percent and deaths by about  percent. The side effect after a third dose of COVID vaccine is similar to those after the second shot, according to a CDC report in late September. The conclusion was based on , people who completed surveys after each shot. Of those surveyed, . percent of people reported local reactions including itching, pain, or redness at the injection site, and . percent reported systemic reactions including fatigue, muscle aches and headaches. The numbers were on par to the reported percentages after their second shot.