Africa sounds alarm over Delta variant
2021-07-03 11:38
A health worker administers a nasal swab at a COVID mobile testing site in Johannesburg, South Africa, on Thursday.WALDO SWIEGERSBLOOMBERGGETTY IMAGES    The Delta variant has attributed to surging numbers of COVID infection cases in some African countries, with experts fearing it may bring disastrous consequences to the continent. According to the World Health Organization, the variant has been reported in three of the five countries reporting the highest caseloads for the week ending on June . It is also dominant in South Africa, which accounted for more than half of Africas cases in the same period. Sixteen African countries, including nine with surging cases, have reported the variant which is so far the most contagious of all variants. Speaking at a news conference on Thursday, Matshidiso Moeti, the WHO regional director for Africa, said the Delta variant was detected in  percent of samples sequenced in Uganda and  percent of samples sequenced in the Democratic Republic of Congo. JeanJacques Muyembe, directorgeneral of the National Institute for Biomedical Research in DR Congo, said the Delta variant is responsible for  percent of COVID infections in the country. The Kenya Medical Research Institute warned on Thursday that Kenya is likely to experience a fourth wave of COVID infections from midJuly, fueled by the Delta variant that is already dominant in the western part of the country. In a study highlighting COVID forecast in the next six months, the state corporation predicted the fourth wave will hit the capital Nairobi and the coastal region hard. Researchers said the Delta variant is replacing the Alpha variant that was predominant in the third wave. They predicted , additional hospitalizations and  deaths within the next six months. Apart from the Delta variant, Africa has also reported the Alpha and Beta variants in  and  countries respectively. The speed and scale of Africas third wave is like nothing weve seen before. The rampant spread of more contagious variants pushes the threat in Africa up to a whole new level, Moeti said. In the past six weeks, Africa has been recording increased COVID infection cases, rising by  percent weekonweek to almost , in the week ending on June . At the same time, Africa continues to lag behind on COVID vaccination figures. So far, only  million people have been fully vaccinated, translating to . percent of the continents . billion population.