CPC governance a boon for China, world
2021-11-10 07:28
A grand gathering is held to honor the centenary of the CPC at Tiananmen Square in Beijing, July , . PhotoXinhua    It is said development is a flame many countries touch yet few can hold. China belongs to the latter group. Long before the centenary of the founding of the Communist Party of China, it had become apparent that the CPCs leadership would transform many aspects of life in China and the world. The hard work and dedication of generations of Chinese have made the country the secondlargest economy in the world. Under the CPCs leadership, China has not only eradicated absolute poverty and transformed the country into a moderately prosperous society in all respects, but its economic growth also fuelled global growth, created jobs and helped lots of people in Asia and Africa emerge out of poverty. The CPCs policies and governance have changed China and the direction of the world. Yet I would like to focus on the CPCs foreign policy. To begin with, thanks to the CPCs leadership, China has opened up its economy to the outside world and cooperated with the rest of the world to address common international issues, including the  global financial crisis and the ongoing COVID pandemic. For example, China has been helping many European, Asian, African and Latin American countries, as well as international organizations with medical equipment and vaccines to contain the pandemic. As a dynamic party, the CPC has seized the moment to launch a new kind of economic diplomacy, including the Belt and Road Initiative and the ChinaCentral Eastern European Countries Cooperation mechanism, and signed a number of trade deals under these cooperation frameworks with Asian and European countries. The Belt and Road Initiative and its intercontinental development goals can be attributed to the CPCs concept of building a community with a shared future for mankind. The initiative involves strategic thinking and aims to build a better future for all by urging countries to work together to develop a more balanced global order and rules based on multilateralism and shared development. The CPCs aim to upgrade the traditional values of international relations, cooperation and peacethrough a community with a shared future for mankindmanifests Chinas will, concept and capacity to build a better world whose zeitgeist will not be geopolitical and technological competition among big powers but cooperation and winwin partnerships. To build such a world order, the CPC seeks partners that believe in mutual respect, friendship and a sense of reciprocity, which has been displayed by China visvis the European Union, the United States and other economies. The tensions between France and Australia as a result of the forming of AUKUS an alliance of Australia, the United Kingdom and the US, and the cancelling of their submarine deal, show how difficult it is to find a trustworthy partner in todays world. It would be fair to ask why the US, once a global leader and the strongest proponent of globalization, has been promoting deglobalization and trying to establish new geopolitical alliances in Chinas neighbourhood. The West can disagree with China on many things and may not have thorough knowledge of Chinas history and civilisation. But how can it not see the CPCs success in transforming China into thriving economy and moderately welloff society. Chinas market economy should remind capitalist countries of the strength and worth of the CPCs socialist ideas, which have charted the countrys socioeconomic success story, expanded the middleincome group to  million people, and helped many other developing countries to develop their economies. To build a fairer society, the CPC has urged the private sector, especially the big tech companies, to better protect workers and contribute more to social development. And while remaining focused on its mission, the CPC has not ignored the rhetoric of some Western governments about China or the fact that the Joe Biden administration is still following the Donald Trump administrations China policy. China has tackled such attacks gracefully and with confidence. But the developed economies should realize that without sharing the global markets and technologies with China, they can neither improve their own economies nor that of the other countries, including their partners and allies. The author is president of the Geoeconomic Forum Croatia. The views dont necessarily reflect those of China Daily. If you have a specific expertise, or would like to share your thought about our stories, then send us your writings at opinionchinadaily.com.cn, and commentchinadaily.com.cn.