After  years, CPC still making founding dream a reality
2021-07-01 16:25
A grand gathering is held to honor the centenary of the CPC at Tiananmen Square in Beijing, July , . PhotoXinhua    It was the dream of the founding fathers of the Communist Party of China CPC to create a prosperous and developed country, an equal society for all and to free the Chinese people from oppression, and stop foreign invaders. A few brave men took charge and called a meeting in July , and founded the CPC. Whenever I analyze the events of last century, I felt a great miracle happened in China. The dreams of the founding fathers of China are becoming reality. They delivered what they promised. Hundreds of millions of people who were living under the poverty line, are now rising toward prosperity. This is the miracle of the CPC and I believe it wouldnt have happened without the hard work of all party members. In , the life expectancy in China was only  years. By the early s, it had increased to  years. About  percent of Chinas population was illiterate in , but by  the adult literacy rate was . percent. Chinas percapita disposable income in  was nearly . yuan, but it topped , yuan , by . From agrarian economy to global superpower in half a centuryChinas transformation has been an economic success story unlike any other. Today, China is the worlds secondlargest economy, making up  percent of global GDP in nominal terms. If you adjust numbers for purchasing power parity PPP, the Chinese economy has already been the worlds largest since . The Partys biggest achievement is uniting China again and getting rid of occupiers and invaders. If you go back to the time of the Republic of China, you will see miserable scenes of death, starvation, war and separation. Before the Peoples Republic of China was established, China was split by warlords and imperialists. There was not a complete and strong country which could offer the protection the people were dying to receive. Before , China was not a country which could claim that she could get her affairs in order without the influence of foreigners. The CPC did it, and members of the Party honestly wanted to make a new world for the Chinese people and changed the country entirely in their own ways. The proof of this is in the advancement and changes happening every day. The country has built a complete industrial system, a strong defense system and an independent and efficient economic system. Without the CPC, the Chinese people would not have any of the above. Those things depend on a great country and great leadership. Without a powerful government, none of these would have any chance to be established. Without an independent country, none of these is practical for Chinese people. As I grew up, I would hear China is the factory of the world. But after earning a degree in China and now working here, I can say the world should know Chinas days as the worlds lowend and lowmargin factory are coming to an end. Chinas days as the worlds innovation, research and development center are beginning. Chinese scientists and engineers are designing and developing apps like TikTok, WeChat and Alipay that are worldclass. We are also seeing China as a global leader in solving the problems of mankind. China launched the Belt and Road Initiative in , which has invested billions of dollars to improve the infrastructure of developing countries in Asia, Africa, Europe and South America. As I am from Pakistan, I have seen in the past years the development in healthcare, motorways, energy and defense. Now we have also seen after the breakout of COVID, China has emerged as the supporter of a healthy world. Whereas the Western world has closed its doors to developing countries, China helped the world to fight against this invisible enemy by donating hundreds of millions of vaccine doses. Due to the launch of thereformandopeninguppolicy in , China has generated so much wealth that in , there are at least  million Chinese in China who enjoy a similar standard of living to their Western counterparts. So we need to take a step back and applaud the CPC for making a prosperous, stable, innovative and powerful China. TheauthorisfromPakistanandworks in Rizhao, East Chinas Shandong province. The opinions expressed here are those of the writer and do not represent the views of China Daily and China Daily website.