People The ultimate success formula of centuryold CPC
2021-06-30 13:39
Colorful balloons fly at the end of the mass pageantry to mark the th anniversary of the Peoples Republic of China on Oct , . Photochinadaily.com.cn    The root cause and source of the power of a political party that has seen its membership explode from plus individuals to over  million lies in its faith and ability to serve the people. In a world where the crisis of political representation is prompting a populist surge of disgruntlement across the Atlantic, the yearold Communist Party of China CPC is upholding its timehonored philosophy of putting the people first, which is the key to both its success and its future. Xi Jinping, general secretary of the CPC Central Committee, said the people are the supreme and ultimate judge of the Partys work. Although political parties vary in their political stances, goals and visions, the performances of all parties can be measured by one universal yardstick  how effectively they have served the people. The CPC has not failed the people it represents. The worlds largest political party has developed a bond with the Chinese people, a relationship often described as being as inseparable as fish and water or flesh and blood. Just like Antaeus, the giant in Greek mythology who drew his power from the earth, the CPC has been drawing its inexhaustible strength from the Chinese people. The Chinese peoples support for the CPC stems from its peoplecentered governing philosophy. The CPC has no missionary impulse to conquer the world, as some biased observers have claimed, nor the intention to export its ideology or development model. Its efforts are motivated solely by the betterment of peoples lives. The state is the people, and the people are the state. Standing on the peoples side represents the fundamental political stance of the CPC, and it is what distinguishes a Marxist political party from other political parties. At its conception, the CPC established its original aspiration and mission  seeking happiness for the Chinese people and rejuvenation for the Chinese nation. A century on from its founding, the Partys leadership is repeatedly asking all its members to remain true to this principle. In some Western countries, the ruling parties have been reduced to serving only a few, becoming political organizations of the  percent, by the  percent, for the  percent. In contrast, the CPC has remained committed to representing the fundamental will of the majority of the people. Under the leadership of the CPC, China seeks a peoplecentered modernization that is different from the Western model in which capital is the primary driver and dominant logic. This is best illustrated by Chinas massive povertyalleviation campaign and its handling of the COVID epidemic, where such concepts and practices as No one should be left behind and People first, life first have been demonstrated. The Chinese peoples support for the CPC stems from its uncompromising selfsacrifice. Born at a time when the Chinese economy  once the worlds largest  had been crippled by foreign invasions and domestic divisions, the fledgling CPC adopted its stance despite great hardship and danger. Chinese Communists are willing to sacrifice everything, including their lives, for the interests of the people. Nearly onequarter of the  members and alternate members of the CPC central committees before the founding of New China gave up their lives for the Partys cause, according to a report published by the New China Research think tank affiliated to Xinhua. Data showed that as many as . million CPC members sacrificed their lives from  to  in striving for the establishment of the peoples republic. Many others died anonymously. This spirit of sacrifice has been carried forth to the present day. Nearly  of the over  million CPC members and cadres who fought against COVID on the front lines died in the process, according to official numbers. The Chinese peoples support for the CPC stems from their experience of its good governance. In the early th century, revolutions, restorations and warlordism failed to change Chinas fate because of the absence of participation by the Chinese people. Rising from the chaos, the CPC gained in popularity among the people as it led the country toward national independence and the end of the Century of Humiliation. Over the past decades, the CPC has made clear its commitment to its original aspiration and mission by championing the Chinese miracles of economic takeoff and longterm social stability, leading the worlds most populous country to stand up, grow rich and become strong. Fully aware that poverty is incompatible with socialism, the CPC led the Chinese people to initiate reform and opening up, which have changed the fate of the Chinese nation and had profound global implications. Upholding a peoplecentered approach, the CPC has transformed China from a country where almost half of the population had to worry about where their next meal would come from into the worlds secondlargest economy, where every life is equally treasured. From  to , Chinas per capita disposable income grew at an average annual rate of . percent in real terms. The CPC believes in pooling peoples wisdom and power. It is the peoples support that has helped the worlds largest Marxist ruling party to keep endeavoring and improving. In the s, Edgar Snow visited Yanan, the then center of the Chinese Communist revolution, where he found a rocklike solidarity among the people of the region led by the CPC. The peopleParty unity observed by the American journalist has proven unbreakable. Decades ago, people volunteered to provide food to the revolutionary soldiers and even dismantled their own wooden doors to make stretchers for the troops. Today, they actively respond to the call of the Party and the government to quarantine and vaccinate themselves to prevent the spread of COVID. The CPC reviews its history and achievements not to revel in its success but for the purpose of summing up its experience and giving itself the power and courage to move forward and better serve the people. The Party knows that the biggest risk it faces lies in becoming disconnected and detached from the people. Thats why it spares no effort to maintain its close ties with the masses.