Concerns rise over Delta Plus variant
2021-06-28 09:49
Rafiq Khan, a villager, receives a dose of COVISHIELD vaccine, a coronavirus disease COVID vaccine manufactured by Serum Institute of India, during a doortodoor vaccination and testing drive at Uttar Batora Island in Howrah district in West Bengal state, India, June , . PhotoAgencies    The emergence of a more contagious Delta Plus variant of COVID is causing increasing concern in some Indian states and many other countries. On Friday, the Indian government said that  cases of the Delta Plus variant of the coronavirus had been detected in  states, with Maharashtra reporting the highest number, . Maharashtra on Friday also reported the first death due to the Delta Plus variant. About  cases of the new Delta Plus variant with an additional mutation called KN had been found in as many as  countries by June . Indias health ministry asked chief secretaries of eight states on Friday to take immediate containment measures in districts where cases of patients infected with the Delta Plus variant have been found. On Tuesday the government had classified Delta Plus, the new mutant version of Delta variant of SARSCoV coronavirus, as a variant of concern. Sujeet Kumar Singh, director of the National Centre for Disease Control, said that in India COVID variants of concerns were found to be distributed in  districts in  states. The highest numbers were reported in Maharashtra, Delhi, Punjab, Telangana, West Bengal and Gujarat. The health ministry said the Indian SARSCoV Consortium on Genomics, a network of  laboratories, found the new virus has increased transmissibility, with stronger binding to receptors of lung cells and that it leads to potential reduction in a monoclonal antibody response that can fight the disease. Dominant type Delta grew to become the dominant variant in India because of its improved ability to jump to new hosts, according to a recent study by a group of scientists from the Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology in collaboration with the Gupta Lab of Cambridge University. The unique set of mutations makes the virus more infective, leads to higher viral load in people and causes larger outbreak clusters, the study found. The Delta variant, first detected in India, carries a number of mutations in the spike protein that have been linked to increased transmission of the virus, experts say. The Alpha variant was first identified in the UK. Globally the pandemic is still slowing, with the World Health Organization reporting the lowest number of new cases worldwide since February and decreasing deaths attributed to COVID. However, the Delta variant has now spread to at least  countries and is the most contagious of any strain identified, said WHO DirectorGeneral Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus. The Delta variant has also been fueling rising case numbers in Australia, where its largest city, Sydney, entered a twoweek lockdown on Saturday to contain a sudden surge. The lockdown, affecting more than  million people in the city and nearby local government areas, was met with dismay after months of very few cases. In Russia, St. Petersburg on Saturday reported the countrys highest death toll for a city since the start of the pandemic. The countrys second city, which has hosted six Euro  soccer matches and is due to host a quarterfinal on Friday, recorded  virus deaths in  hours. The WHO suggested three parametersincreased transmissibility, more virulence, and decreased effectiveness of public health measuresto determine its seriousness. WHO is tracking this variant as part of the Delta variant, as we are doing for other variants of concern with additional mutations, the WHO said in a statement. The new mutant variant may just be capable of dodging immunities, both from COVID vaccines as well as from earlier infections, said Shahid Jameel, virologist and former member of the Indian SARSCoV Consortium on Genomics. Aparajit Chakraborty in New Delhi, agencies and Xinhua contributed to this story.