With good faith and goodwill
2021-06-25 09:25
Chinas vaccine aid has empowered the inoculation efforts of the lessdeveloped countriesA celebratory mood continues to grow in one of the worlds major economies, as the Communist Party of China prepares to commemorate the th anniversary of its founding on July . The CPC has demonstrated its strong leadership throughout the historical process of leading the people toward the rejuvenation of the Chinese nation. It has not only significantly improved the lives of the Chinese people, but also provided new opportunities and driving forces for the development of the whole world.The CPCs insistence on putting people and life first is the guiding principle that has enabled China to achieve success in largely containing the COVID pandemic and in experiencing a robust economic recovery under the CPCs leadership. Chinese people united all resources to win the battle against the deadly coronavirus by effectively and efficiently controlling its transmission and China was the first nation to restore normal levels of economic and financial activities in the presence of a global pandemic. Chinas rapid response to the COVID outbreak and the rigid pandemic control measures taken to win the fight against the virus has once again highlighted the unique nature and advantages of the Chinese political system. The CPCs people first philosophy is reflected in the nations emphasis on reducing the infection and mortality rates not only in China but around the world.Notwithstanding Chinas control and exceptional management of the coronavirus, largescale investment, research and development have been carried out by Chinese corporations to aid the world in the fight against the virus. China has made huge strides in the development and production of two frontrunner vaccines Sinovac and Sinopharm. The World Health Organizations endorsement of both vaccines has promoted China to play a leading role in the worlds fight against the pandemic. The countrys pandemic response is an embodiment of President Xi Jinpings governing philosophy.The mass vaccine deployment by China has eased global shortages. As the worlds poorest nations have been lagging behind and struggling to vaccinate a tiny percentage of their population, the Chinese government has generously distributed vaccines to these nations. This vaccine aid has empowered the inoculation efforts of the lessdeveloped countries around the world thereby reducing rates of transmission and by extension, saving the lives of their people. The Chinese government has gifted the twin islands of Trinidad and Tobago , vaccines which has allowed an advancement in the countrys vaccination drive.Aside from its robust economic performance amid the global pandemic, China continues to play an important role in the world economy. Its rapid recovery has reaffirmed the toughness and resilience of the Chinese economy. Chinas development and participation in the global economy offers opportunities for trade, investment and international cooperation to promote world prosperity and stability. Led by the CPC, China has won its long struggle to eliminate extreme poverty in the country. Despite the enormous challenges faced by China, the worlds secondlargest economy has lifted over  million people out of poverty. This is a remarkable and unprecedented global achievement. Further, Chinas urbanization has also been phenomenal with a large proportion of people moving from the rural to urban areas and experiencing a better standard of living.China continues to make great strides despite the pandemic. Direct assistance to lowincome countries through Chinas international aid mechanism, distributions of vaccines, manufacturing and construction sector developments as well as qualified technical support demonstrates the good faith of the CPC. China is developing on all fronts at a rapid pace and the nations impact on the world continues to accelerate.The author is an economist of the Ministry of Finance of Trinidad and Tobago. The author contributed this article to China Watch, a think tank powered by China Daily. The views do not necessarily reflect those of China Daily.