Japan opens to students, business travelers
2021-11-09 10:20
Passersby wearing protective face masks walk past an electronic board displaying world stock indexes, amid the coronavirus disease COVID pandemic, in Tokyo, Japan on Nov , . PhotoAgencies    Japan relaxed its entry restrictions on Monday for businesspeople, students and technical trainees, but continues to keep tourists out as the country eyes a  trillion yen  billion stimulus package to ease the economic pain from the COVID pandemic. Business travelers with vaccination documents recognized by Japanese authorities will be allowed to go out for their necessary businesses and use public transportation after quarantining for three days and testing negative for the virus, said Japans health ministry. The change, which is part of a broader easing of travel rules, came as the country witnessed a fall in new cases to the hundreds from a peak of tens of thousands of cases just a few months ago. Declining cases On Sunday, Japan reported  cases and saw no deaths from COVID for the first time in  months. That brought down Japans average daily case numbers of the past week to , a  percent decrease from two weeks ago. Around  percent of Japans population have been fully vaccinated, according to data from the University of Oxford. Businesspeople, who have been fully inoculated with one of three vaccinesfrom Pfizer, Moderna or AstraZenecacan apply for the shorter quarantine. This means unvaccinated travelers and those inoculated with other vaccines still have to be quarantined for  days. In an interview with China Daily, a health ministry official said it may take a week or two before the first batch of business travelers, who have been granted shorter quarantine periods, arrive in Japan. Students and technical trainees can also apply for a shortened quarantine of  days if they receive one of the three approved vaccines. Seiji Kihara, Japans deputy chief cabinet secretary, said on Friday that the government will need to evaluate when tourists will be allowed into the country. Though inbound tourism is banned for now, the Japanese government is looking to promote domestic tourism by reviving a travel campaign following a more than  trillion yen stimulus package aiming to ease the fallout on its pandemicbattered economy. Kyodo News reported that the package will include providing , yen in cash handouts for all citizens aged  or younger and restarting the Go To Travel subsidy program to promote domestic tourism.