New COVID cases surpass , in less than one month
2021-11-09 07:28
A resident reports to a booth in Heihes Aihui district, Heilongjiang province, for a nucleic acid test on Nov , . PhotoXinha    After  new locally transmitted COVID cases were reported on Monday, the overall number of locally transmitted confirmed coronavirus patients during the latest outbreak that started on Oct  on the Chinese mainland has reached ,, according to the Beijing Daily newspaper. The new locally transmitted cases reported by the National Health Commission were scattered across  provinciallevel regions, including  reported in Liaoning province. During the latest outbreak, all the local cases in Liaoning were reported in the port city of Dalian, according to the provincial health commission. Unlike the outbreaks previous confirmed cases, which were mainly associated with Ejine Banner of Alshaa League in North Chinas Inner Mongolia autonomous region, the cases in Dalian point to imported coldchain seafood and meat as the suspected source. Dalians first case was reported on Thursday in Zhuanghe, a coastal area under its jurisdiction that deals with imported seafood. Among the  patients whose information has been released,  are employees of a cold storage company in Zhuanghe. Three villagelevel residential compounds in Zhuanghe had been designated as of Sunday as mediumrisk areas for COVID control and prevention. The local government said people in Dalian must not leave the city unless its absolutely necessary. The first patient had no travel history outside Zhuanghe in the past  days. He received routine nucleic acid tests at the cold storage company on Oct  and , and the results were all negative, Zhao Lian, deputy director of Dalians health commission, said at an earlier news conference. On Thursday, the patient visited Zhuanghe Central Hospital for nucleic acid testing, and the initial screening result was positive. Its the third time that Dalian had a COVID outbreak related to cold chainthe first time in July  and the second in December which means that all three COVID outbreaks in the city involved the cold chain. Dalian is Chinas biggest port for imported coldchain food. Around  percent of the countrys imported coldchain goods enter the country via Dalian, where more than , people work in coldchain related businesses. It has also brought huge pressure on the citys COVID control and prevention work. In Henan province,  of the  newly reported cases were in Zhengzhou, its capital, according to a case tally released by the local health authorities on Monday, and school students were involved. Data released by the local commission shows that many of the patients are students in Xingyang, a prefecturelevel city in Zhengzhou. Up to seven primary school students ages  and , a high school student who is the brother of a confirmed primary school student, and a yearold kindergarten student were confirmed to be infected with COVID in Xingyang. Lou Yangsheng, Party secretary of Henan, said on Sunday at a provinciallevel epidemic control and prevention meeting that the province will contain this round of the outbreak by Nov , according to ThePaper.cn. Many regions nationwide are rolling out COVID vaccinations for children ages  to . Shi Baoyin in Zhengzhou contributed to this story.