Chinese FM chairs highlevel meeting of BRI AsiaPacific region
2021-06-24 09:45
Chinese State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi presides over the Asia and Pacific Highlevel Conference on Belt and Road Cooperation via video link in Beijing, capital of China, June , . PhotoXinhua    BEIJING  China is willing to work hand in hand with all parties to continue building the Belt and Road with high quality, and building closer partnerships for health cooperation, connectivity, green development, and openness and inclusiveness to provide more opportunities for all parties, Chinese State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi said on Wednesday. Wang made the remarks when chairing a highlevel meeting on international cooperation under the Belt and Road Initiative BRI in the AsiaPacific region via video link. Wang said that, since the BRI was proposed in , this initiative has made positive progress with the joint efforts of all parties. In the past eight years, the BRI has brought huge opportunities and bonuses for other countries, becoming the widest and largest international cooperation platform, said Wang. Facing the sudden COVID pandemic, the Belt and Road cooperation has showed its strong resilience and vitality, he added. Wang put forward four suggestions for building the Belt and Road with high quality. All sides should continue to deepen international vaccine cooperation, strengthen connectivity cooperation, promote green development cooperation, and push forward free trade regionally and globally, according to Wang. He said that China is willing to work with AsiaPacific countries to provide solutions for the global fight against the pandemic, inject dynamism into global connectivity, convey confidence in the sustainable recovery of the world economy, and make greater contributions in building a community with a shared future in the AsiaPacific region and for humanity. Colombian President Ivan Duque said that Colombia appreciates Chinas initiative to make vaccines a global public good, and believes that vaccine cooperation is in the common interests of all countries. Political, economic and financing barriers should not be set up under any circumstances. The participants support China in convening this meeting, saying that this meeting is timely and important, which will help all parties deepen cooperation in coping with global challenges such as fighting the pandemic, economic recovery and climate change, and help promote new progress in the international cooperation under the BRI.