Deaths in agedcare homes soared in US
2021-06-24 09:26
A nursing home resident receives a shot of the coronavirus disease vaccine at King David Center for Nursing and Rehabilitation, a nursing home facility, in Brooklyns Bath Beach neighborhood in New York City, on Jan , . PhotoAgencies    Deaths among Medicare recipients in US nursing homes surged by  percent in  amid the COVID pandemic compared to , with the highest increase in death rates among Asian Americans, a government watchdog report released on Tuesday said. A total of  percent of Asian Americans perished in  compared to  percent the previous year. For white people, the death rate grew to  percent in  from  percent in . Death rates for Hispanic and black patients were  percent last year, up from  percent in , the report from the inspector general of the Health and Human Services Department said. Medicare is a governmentfunded program which provides healthcare coverage to the elderly, while Medicaid is the statefederal medical program for lowincome people. We knew this was going to be bad, but I dont think even those of us who work in this area thought it was going to be this bad, said Harvard health policy professor David Grabowski, a nationally recognized expert on longterm care, who reviewed the report. This was not individuals who were going to die anyway, Grabowski said. We are talking about a really big number of excess deaths. Health economist Tamara Konetzka of the University of Chicago, who reviewed the report for The Associated Press, said the findings about Asians highlight a riddle for researchers. The reasons for higher cases and deaths among blacks, Hispanics and Asians may not necessarily be tied to race and ethnicity. Instead, minority patients may be clustered in homes located in communities with more severe outbreaks, she said. The report said . percent of all Medicare patients in nursing homes died in , compared to  percent in . The deaths overall jumped by , from the previous year. The report found that about  in  Medicare recipients in nursing homes had or likely had COVID in . This represented about . million people. Death rates were higher in every month last year when compared with . Two spikes The report documented two spikes in deaths. In April last year, a total of , Medicare patients in nursing homes died. Then eight months later, after lockdowns and frantic efforts to expand testing but before vaccines became widely available, nursing home patients accounted for , deaths in December. This is happening long after it was clear that nursing homes were particularly vulnerable, said Nancy Harrison, a deputy regional inspector general who worked on the report. We really have to look at that. Why did they remain so vulnerable? The report was the most comprehensive yet from the government because it included statistics for the early part of last year during the initial coronavirus surge. Medicare did not require nursing homes to report COVID cases and deaths occurring before May , more than four months into the pandemic. The inspector generals office based its analysis on Medicare billing data, including patients in Medicare Advantage plans sold by private insurers. Medicare covers the vast majority of nursing home patients. The report included longterm residents as well as those temporarily at a facility for rehab care. The report also found that lowincome nursing home patients covered by Medicare and Medicaid together were much more likely to have gotten COVID. The infection rate for that group hit  percent and  percent died. Some states suffered the most. By the end of December, more than half of Medicare patients in nursing homes in Connecticut, Illinois, Louisiana and New Jersey had or likely had COVID. Across the US, the coronavirus found ideal conditions to spread among frail nursing home patients living in close quarters. Many researchers believe its likely staffers unwittingly brought the virus in from surrounding communities.