US reports over , heart problem cases in young people after COVID vaccination
2021-06-24 09:14
Vials with PfizerBioNTech and Moderna coronavirus disease COVID vaccine labels are seen in this illustration picture taken March , . PhotoAgencies    WASHINGTON  More than , cases of myocarditis and pericarditis have been reported across the United States in young people who received mRNA COVID vaccines, according to the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention CDC on Wednesday. Experts of CDCs Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices met on Wednesday to review risks of these rare heart problems in the vaccinated younger population. A total of , cases of myocarditis and pericarditis have been reported in young people who received Pfizers or Modernas COVID vaccines through June , according to the CDC. There have been  cases reported after receiving one dose of the mRNA vaccines, and  reported cases after two doses. There are  additional cases where the number of doses received is unknown, according to the CDC. Of these cases,  developed symptoms and were hospitalized, and  people have been discharged. About  percent of them have fully recovered. Nine people were still hospitalized, with two in intensive care as of June , according to the CDC. Most cases have been mild, with symptoms like fatigue, chest pain and disturbances in heart rhythm that quickly clear up within a day or so. Males under  make up the majority of the cases. More cases occurred after the second dose than the first, according to the CDC. Experts said they will need to follow up with patients in the months ahead in order to get a complete picture of the impact. Clinical presentation of myocarditis cases following vaccination has been distinct, occurring most often within one week after the second dose, with chest pain as the most common presentation, said Grace Lee, who chairs the committees safety group. CDC officials are gathering more data to fully understand the potential risks, how to manage it and whether there are any longterm issues, she said. Experts stressed this occurrence is rare, about . heart inflammation cases per million doses. Officials emphasized that the benefits of COVID vaccines outweigh the risks, and noted that for every million doses of mRNA vaccine given, there are far more COVID cases and hospitalizations prevented compared to the number of potential myocarditis cases. About . percent of the US population is fully vaccinated against COVID, and . percent of the population has received at least one shot as of Wednesday, according to CDC data. Roughly . million of people  and older in the United States are fully vaccinated.