FDA to add warning about rare heart inflammation to Pfizer, Moderna vaccines
2021-06-24 04:50
FILE PHOTO Signage is seen outside of the Food and Drug Administration FDA headquarters in White Oak, Maryland, US, August , . PhotoAgencies    June   The US Food and Drug Administration said on Wednesday it will add a warning about rare cases of heart inflammation in adolescents and young adults to fact sheets for the PfizerBioNTech and Moderna COVID vaccines. US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention CDC advisory groups, meeting to discuss reported cases of the heart condition after vaccination, found the risk in adolescents and young adults is likely linked to the vaccines, but that the benefits of the shots appeared to clearly outweigh the risk. Moderna shares were down nearly , while Pfizer was off . in late afternoon trading. Health regulators in several countries have been investigating whether the PfizerBioNTech and Moderna shots using new mRNA technology present a risk and, if so, how serious. The CDC said that patients with heart inflammation following vaccination generally recover from the symptoms and do well. The US Department of Health And Human Services, joined by leading US doctors groups and public health officials, put out a statement underscoring that the vaccines are safe and effective and that the heart side effect is extremely rare. We strongly encourage everyone age  and older who are eligible to receive the vaccine under Emergency Use Authorization to get vaccinated, it said. Concerns about the more highly transmissible Delta coronavirus variant taking hold in the United States, and its impact on younger people, have added to the urgency to increase vaccinations. Doctors and hospitals have been warned by the CDC to watch for symptoms of myocarditis or pericarditis, and the FDA warning will further raise awareness.  WARNING WARRANTED Based on the available data, a warning statement in the factsheets for both healthcare providers and vaccine recipients and caregivers would be warranted, FDA official Doran Fink said at the advisory committee meeting. Fink, deputy director of the agencys vaccines division, said the FDA expects to move quickly to add the warning after the meeting concludes. The cases of heart inflammation appear to be notably higher in the week after the second vaccine dose and in males. The CDC identified  hospitalizations from the heart inflammation in persons under the age of , of which  have been discharged. Dr. Tom Shimabukuro, deputy director of the CDCs Immunization Safety Office, said in a presentation that data from one of the agencys safety monitoring systems  Vaccine Safety Datalink VSD  suggests a rate of . cases per million in the three weeks after the second shot in  to yearolds. Were observing this in the younger age groups, mainly in people in the teens and early s, and observing it more in males, compared to females, Shimabukuro said. This effect, largely kind of disappears once you get into these older age groups  individuals  and over. The CDC has been investigating heart inflammation cases mainly in young men for several months. The Israeli health ministry earlier this month said it saw a possible link between such cases and Pfizers COVID vaccine. The CDC said it was still assessing the risk from the condition and did not specifically confirm a causal relationship between the vaccines and the heart issue. It did, however, say that a muchhigherthan expected number of young men between the ages of  and  have experienced heart inflammation after their second vaccine dose. According to data from the US Vaccine Adverse Event Reporting System VAERS, there were  observed cases of heart inflammation in the week after the second vaccine dose in males aged  to . That compares with expectations of  or fewer cases for males in that age range based on US population background incidence rates, the CDC said. Pfizer, whose vaccine has been authorized for use in Americans as young as , previously said it had not observed a higher rate of heart inflammation than would normally be expected in the general population. Moderna said it is aware of reports of heart inflammation cases following administration of mRNA vaccines. It said it is working with public health and regulatory authorities to assess the issue. Over  million Americans have so far been fully vaccinated with one of the two mRNA vaccines, according to CDC data as of Monday. Reuters