White House Will miss vaccine goal
2021-06-23 10:30
White House COVID Response Coordinator Jeff Zients delivers remarks during a press briefing at the White House in Washington, US, April , . REUTERSTom Brenner    The White House on Tuesday publicly acknowledged that it would miss President Joe Bidens goal of having  percent of US adults receive at least one COVID vaccine shot by July . White House coronavirus coordinator Jeff Zients on Tuesday announced a new goal to give at least one shot to  percent of adults  and older through the July Fourth holiday weekend. More than  percent of Americans age  or older have received at least one dose of a COVID vaccine, Zients said. It was the first time that Biden has failed to meet a vaccination goal he has set. In the past week, an average of about , adults have received their first vaccine each day. To reach Bidens original goal, that number will need to increase to about , adults newly vaccinated every day, according to a USA Today analysis. If the rate of adult vaccinations continues on the current sevenday average, the country will come with about  percent of adults partially vaccinated by July , according to The New York Times. Sixteen states and the District of Columbia have reached the goal already, but some states are at less than  percent of all adults, Zients said at a White House briefing. The nation also needs a few extra weeks to ensure that Americans between age  and  are vaccinated at rates similar to older adults, Zients said at the news briefing. The age group has been proven to be least likely to get a vaccine when its available for them, according to a new Centers for Disease Control and Prevention CDC study released on Monday. The reality is, many younger Americans have felt like COVID is not something that impacts them and have been less eager to get the shot, Zients said. By May , vaccine coverage was lowest among those  years old. Nearly  percent of the age group reported that they probably or definitely would not get vaccinated, while  percent were unsure, the CDC study shows. Adults  years with lower incomes, lower educational attainment, without health insurance, who were nonHispanic Black adults who lived in suburban areas had the lowest reported vaccination coverage and intent to get vaccinated, the CDC study said. Biden set two public goals May  seeing  percent of American adults receive at least one dose of the vaccination in two months and seeing  million Americans fully vaccinated by then. Zients acknowledged that the US also would miss that second goal laid out by Biden. We will hit  million Americans fully vaccinated no later than midJuly, he added. Data from the CDC shows that more than  percent of adults have received at least one vaccine, while nearly  percent, or approximately  million people, are fully vaccinated. The pace of vaccine administration has fallen significantly from its peak in early April, when more than  million adults were newly vaccinated each day, even as shots have become more available. White House officials have argued that meeting Bidens vaccination goal is less important than the pace of the nations reopening. Dr Anthony Fauci, Bidens chief medical adviser, stressed that the push to get more people vaccinated will continue. No one should think that when we reach  percent of all adults across the country that we are done, Fauci said. We are not done until we completely crush this outbreak.