CNN dubbed China News Network what doublestandard trick are some US media playing?
2021-06-22 13:53
Photo  ECNS    US Cable News Network CNN was surprised by Chinas coronavirus vaccination rates, calling it a scale and speed unrivaled by any other country in the world in its report China is about to administer its billionth coronavirus shot last Friday. Fox News cited a commentary by NewsBusters analyst Nicholas Fondacaro, who labeled CNN as China News Network pumping out propaganda for the CCP. A fact report on China was interpreted as proChina propaganda, showing some people in the US and other Western countries had played a doublestandard trick on China once again. In fact, this is not the first time that they have practiced double standards on China issues. Previously, some US media including CNN romanticized the rocket debris of SpaceX as lighting up the sky with a spectacular rocket show, while coordinately stating Chinas rocket debris would cause threats to objects on Earth. This time, CNNs report on Chinas vaccination speed was called running Chinese propaganda for the CCP, with even Chinese statistics brought into doubt. It is nothing but their prejudice against Chinas development that sees lies flattered while facts are questioned and ridiculed. It is an established fact that China has administered more than one billion doses of the COVID vaccine. Some U.S media shout for press freedom, but cant stop satirizing and questioning objective Chinarelated reports, which is no doubt sour grapes psychology. Does their press freedom mean unlimited freedom in attacking and smearing China? Chinas achievements in fighting COVID wont be effaced despite their slander. Statistics released by National Health Commission on Sunday shows more than one billion vaccines have been administered across China as of Saturday, which is definitely true and reliable. Therefore, US media should give up their doublestandard related to China, abide by news facts and professional ethics and report on China in a fair and objective way.