Spectator cap of , imposed for Games events
2021-06-22 09:46
A general view of the Olympic Rings installed on a floating platform with the Rainbow Bridge in the background in preparation for the Tokyo  Olympic Games in Tokyo, Japan June , . PhotoAgencies    Olympic organizers on Monday decided to allow up to , spectators at each event in this summers Tokyo Games but warned of the possibility of moving events behind closed doors if coronavirus infections surge. In light of the governments restrictions on public events, the spectator limit for the Olympic Games will be set at  percent of venue capacity, up to a maximum of , people in all venues, a statement said. The declaration was issued after an online meeting by the socalled Five Parties, comprised of the Games organizing committee, the Japanese government, the Tokyo Metropolitan government and the International Olympic and Paralympic committees. The decision weeks before the scheduled opening ceremony on July  clears up the final major uncertainty about the Games. It ends several months of speculation on whether spectators will be allowed for Olympic events. Organizers had banned spectators from abroad in March. A decision on how many fans can attend the Paralympics, which begin Aug , will be made by July . Tokyo  President Seiko Hashimoto said organizers will reexamine their decision on fans if cases rise again, or another state of emergency in Tokyo is declared. We acknowledge there is uncertainty on the situation around the pandemic during the Games, Hashimoto said. So we need to be very flexible. Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga said on Monday he would prefer to see fans in the stands but said if the pandemic situation worsens, banning any from attending is definitely a possibility. Utmost priority I think thats obvious from the standpoint of making safety and security our utmost priority, Suga said while visiting a vaccination site in the capital. Although Tokyos local committee said they only sold tickets for  percent of the total seats in venues, the attendance cap of , will inevitably leave many ticket holders disappointed. Popular events like the opening and closing ceremonies were originally planned to be seen by up to , people. The restrictions will leave organizers with a logistical challenge in deciding who to let in. Hashimoto said a fresh lottery will be introduced. The Japanese public remained unconvinced about the Games going ahead as scheduled. A nationwide survey conducted by Kyodo News over the weekend found that around  percent of people in Japan are concerned about a resurgence in COVID cases if the Games are held. Athletes from different countries have arrived Tokyo over the weekend.