Bidens workplace vaccine mandate challenged legally
2021-11-08 11:10
A man salutes as the National Anthem is sung as people gather to protest vaccine mandates for city workers at City Hall Park on November ,  in New York City.PhotoAgencies    The Biden administration was given until Monday to defend its workplace vaccine mandate by a federal appeals court that issued a temporary injunction against the plan that would require employees at private companies with  or more workers to show proof of a COVID vaccine or face weekly testing. There are potentially grave statutory and constitutional questions involved with President Joe Bidens mandate, said the US Court of Appeals for the th Circuit in New Orleans, which issued the injunction Saturday. The threejudge panel stated that the Mandate is hereby STAYED pending further action by this court. Biden announced on Thursday that the mandate would take effect Jan . The court gave the government until Monday at  pm to respond to the plaintiffs motion for a permanent injunction. Texas, Louisiana, Mississippi, South Carolina and Utah were the states challenging the mandates legality in the th Circuit Court. More than half of all US states have filed or joined lawsuits in opposition in different federal appeals courts around the country. The White House vaccine mandate applies to . million workers at . million private sector employers. Another . million workers are exempt because they either work remotely or outside, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration OSHA said. The wider mandate also would impact about  million healthcare workers employed by hospitals that accept federal Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement, along with federal employees and contractors. Some Republican politicians have argued that OSHA lacks the statutory authority to enforce such a rule. Benjamin Noren, a New Yorkbased labor lawyer, said he believes the rule is likely to be struck down because OSHA was intended to deal with workplace hazards such as chemicals, not a virus. He said OSHA has made  emergency rules in the last five decades. Of the six that were challenged, only one was kept intact. Its an innovative use by the Biden administration to figure out some way to mandate vaccination in the private sector, Noren told The Associated Press. I hope it works. I have doubts. Lawrence Gostin, director of the World Health Organizations center on health law and a professor at Georgetown University Law Center, told AP that the mandate is on rocksolid legal ground. The administration says it is confident that the requirement, which includes penalties of nearly , per violation, will withstand legal challenges in part because federal safety rules preempt state laws. We are fully prepared to defend this standard in court, Seema Nanda, solicitor for the US Department of Labor, said in a statement Friday. The mandate will cause injuries and hardship to working families, inflict economic disruption and staffing shortages on the States and private employers, and impose even greater strains on struggling labor markets and supply chains, the filing in the th Circuit Court from a coalition of  attorneys general led by Missouri Attorney General Eric Schmitt stated. A lawsuit led by Florida, Alabama, and Georgia in the Atlantabased th Circuit argues that the mandate clashes with the First Amendment and the Religious Freedom Restoration Act. This unlawful mandate is yet another example of the Biden administrations complete disregard for the Constitutional rights afforded to our state and our citizens, said Georgia Attorney General Chris Carr in a statement. The OSHA rule does provide exemptions for medical and religious reasons, as well as for people who work entirely outdoors or remotely. While most of the court challenges are coming from Republicanled states, some Democraticrun states have signed on to the challenges. States have been leading the fight against COVID from the start of the pandemic, said Kansas Democratic Governor Laura Kelly. It is too late to impose a federal standard now that we have already developed systems and strategies that are tailored for our specific needs. The coronavirus pandemic has been attributed to , deaths in the US in less than two years. It also has upended the global economy and supply chains. Resurgent economic demand emerging from the pandemic has led to soaring gasoline prices, as oil production, slowed at the height of the outbreak, has not kept up with the burst of consumer activity. Inflation in the US also has been hovering around  percent. What I hear time and time again from small businesses, large businesses and workers, is that whats really hurting the economy is actually COVID itself, Surgeon General Vivek Murthy said Sunday on ABCs This Week. Its important we take every measure possible to make our workplaces safer, he said in defending the mandate. Its good for peoples health, its good for the economy, and thats why these requirements make so much sense. Other states that filed lawsuits Friday were Kansas, Kentucky, Idaho, Ohio, Oklahoma, Tennessee and West Virginia in the th Circuit in Cincinnati. Later Friday, Indiana filed in the th Circuit in Chicago. Congress has not given the president the power to make personal healthcare decisions for all Americans who just so happen to work at a company with at least  employees, Ohio Attorney General Dave Yost said. The Associated Press contributed to this story.