Residents in Portuguese capital not allowed to leave region to curb rising COVID cases
2021-06-18 10:51
A food delivery service man riding a bicycle passes by a closed terrace in Lisbon downtown amid the coronavirus disease COVID pandemic, in Lisbon, Portugal, March , . PhotoAgencies    LISBON  The Portuguese government announced on Thursday that the entire Metropolitan Area of LisbonAML will be in isolation on weekends, from  pm on Friday to  am on next Monday, in a bid to contain the increase in cases of COVID in the countrys capital. The Minister of State for the Presidency, Mariana Vieira da Silva, said that the restrictions on circulation in the AML are intended to ensure that the high incidence of the pandemic that is felt in this region is not transported out of it. The ban affects  municipalities in the AML, with reinforcement of the general inspection of activities and events in the capital, said the minister in a statement to the press. According to her, this is a new measure to control the pandemic that is neither easy nor desired by anyone, but it is necessary to contain the aggravation of the incidence of COVID in the region due to the prevalence of the Delta variant of the new coronavirus. Portugal recorded in the past  hours , new confirmed cases and two more deaths, with  more people hospitalized, according to the General Directorate of Health DGS. Thursdays epidemiological bulletin records a total of  people hospitalized,  of them in intensive care units, where five more patients were admitted, Lusa news agency reported. It is the highest number of admissions with COVID since April , when  people were admitted. Throughout the Lisbon Metropolitan Area, there is high growth. Our objective is no longer to prevent this transmission between municipalities, which is already very high, but to control what is still outside this metropolitan area, said the minister. Unlike the rest of the country, Lisbon has not progressed to the last phase of deconfinement, or easing of COVID lockdown measures, scheduled for this week. In Portugal, , people have died so far out of , confirmed cases of infection, according to the latest bulletin from the DGS. Over . million people have been vaccinated, the Portuguese health authorities said.