US trucker shortage took pandemic hit
2021-06-16 10:55
A FedEx truck leaves the Pfizer Global Supply manufacturing plant with a small convoy, amid the coronavirus disease COVID outbreak, in Portage, Michigan, US, Dec , . PhotoAgencies    The COVID pandemic in the US has worsened an existing truckdriver shortage, resulting in delays in transporting goods, higher prices for products, and constraints in the supply chain, according to industry experts. After millions of Americans were directed to stay home since the start of the pandemic in March , there has been an unprecedented demand for food and other essential items to be shipped. In the US,  percent of all goods that people eat and use are moved by truck, including the COVID vaccines. The rocketing customer demand caused problems with supply chains and stretched demand for overworked truck drivers, according to the American Trucking Association ATA, the largest trade organization for the trucking industry. Investments in our supply chain are desperately needed, including the roads and bridges that connect our ports, rail yards and airports to the National Highway System, ATA President and CEO Chris Spear told the US Senate Commerce, Science and Transportation Committee last month. Do that, and you will witness measurable efficiencies, including gains in productivity and safety, job growth and sustainable employment. We remain hopeful that federal action can solve this growing national crisis, he said. As of , the trucking industry has faced a shortfall of nearly , drivers and will need to hire roughly . million new ones over the next decade to keep pace with the economys increased freight demands, the ATA said. Kevin Johnson, CEO of Starbucks, the worlds largest coffee chain, told an earnings call in April that some Starbucks supply chain partners have struggled to get deliveries from distribution centers to stores due to labor shortages. The ChickFilA restaurant chain said the industrywide truckdriver shortage meant it had to limit dipping sauces, adding that it was raising prices across its menu by  percent to pay for rising food costs. General Mills, the multinational manufacturer and marketer of branded consumer foods, and Lamb Weston, an Eagle, Idahobased food processing company, also cited freight problems in their businesses and said they turned to spot trucking, which they paid more for to ensure that deliveries were made on time. Kofi Bruce, General Mills CFO, told an earnings call in March that freight expenses would affect the companys margins in the first quarter. Freight bottlenecks and congestion on highways cost the trucking industry an annual . billion hours of lost productivity, equivalent to more than , drivers sitting idle for an entire year and adding  billion to the cost of freight transportation, the ATA said. In the US, there are  million heavy tractortrailer truck drivers. However, the main truckdriver shortage is among longhaul truck drivers, which include at least , to , people. The average base salary for a trucker in the US is ,, according to indeed.com. Longhaul truckers commonly work long hours. Many are paid for the number of miles they drive and not an hourly, daily or weekly wage, which can be a hardship. The work is also dangerous, as truck drivers are  times more likely to be killed on the job when compared with the average worker, according to the Labor Department. Age is also a barrier. Todays truck drivers average age  and up. Many will retire soon. There is a lack of younger men to replace them, and only  percent of the total number of drivers are women. The ATA has spent years lobbying the federal government to change regulations in the industry to help attract new drivers. It is pushing Congress to take up the Developing Responsible Individuals for a Vibrant Economy Drive Safe Act legislation that will lower the minimum legal age of interstate commerce truck drivers from  to . In March, several bipartisan US senators reintroduced the act. Looking toward the future, autonomousvehicle makers believe that their trucks could help alleviate the driver shortage because such vehicles need less human interaction. Robert Brown, director of Public Affairs for TuSimple, an autonomous trucking company in San Diego, California, and China, told China Daily TuSimple trucks dont get tired, distracted or need to rush anywhere instead the technology is developed to drive the steadiest and safest path possible.  We believe that autonomous and longhaul truck drivers will work in collaboration for many years to come.