G pledges m COVID vaccine doses, half to be delivered by end of
2021-06-14 12:18
From L to R, Front Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau, US President Joe Biden, British Prime Minister Boris Johnson, French President Emmanuel Macron, German Chancellor Angela Merkel, From L to R, Rear European Council President Charles Michel, Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga, Italian Prime Minister Mario Draghi and European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen, stand for a photo in Carbis Bay, Cornwall, Britain, on June , . PhotoXinhua    GENEVA  Leaders of G countries have agreed in an agreement at their summit to share at least  million doses of COVID vaccines directly, at least half of which are to be delivered by the end of , the World Health Organization WHO said on Sunday. In a statement, WHO said the G countries have reaffirmed their support for COVAX, a WHOled international campaign for equitable access to COVID vaccines globally, as the primary route for providing vaccines to the poorest countries. While welcoming the Gs commitment, COVAX partners have also called for their continued support for exporting the vaccines in significant proportions, promotion of voluntary licensing and notforprofit global production. COVAX has been facing an urgent supply gap, according to the WHO, and is focused on securing as many shared doses as possible immediately. It will work with the G and other countries that have stepped up to share doses as rapidly and equitably as possible, to address shortterm supply constraints and minimize the prospect of future deadly variants. Many other countries are now facing a surge in cases  and they are facing it without vaccines. We are in the race of our lives, but its not a fair race, and most countries have barely left the starting line, said WHO DirectorGeneral Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus. But we need more, and we need them faster, he added. This is an important moment of global solidarity and a critical milestone in the push to ensure those most at risk, everywhere are protected, said Seth Berkley, CEO of Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance. As we strive towards our goal of ending the acute phase of the pandemic, we look forward to working with countries to ensure these doses pledged are quickly turned into doses delivered, he added. The G has committed one billion doses since the February  virtual G Early Leaders Summit, including pledges made at the G Global Health Summit and the Gavi COVAX Summit.