ExPM secures Mongolias top job
2021-06-11 09:30
Ukhnaa Khurelsukh attends a campaign rally ahead of the presidential election, in Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia, on June , . PhotoAgencies    ULAANBAATARFormer Mongolian prime minister Ukhnaa Khurelsukh has won the countrys presidential election, further consolidating the status of the ruling Mongolian Peoples Party, or MPP. MPP Chairman Khurelsukh, who resigned as prime minister earlier this year, defeated Sodnomzundui Erdene of the opposition Democratic Party and Dangaasuren Enkhbat of the Right Person Electorate Coalition in a national vote, the General Election Committee, or GEC, said. A total of ,, people cast their votes in the election, or . percent of all eligible voters. The candidate from the MPP, Khurelsukh, obtained . percent of the votes, Purevee Delgernaran, head of the GEC, said at a news conference. The official noted that all paper ballots of the election were counted by hand to avoid any disputes related to ballot counting machines. Khurelsukh will replace incumbent Khaltmaa Battulga, a former world champion in the martial art of sambo who cannot run for a second presidential term under constitutional rules. From the bottom of my heart, I thank my fellow Mongolians, he said. Mongolia, with a population of around . million, has held eight presidential elections since . Among them, the first presidential election had the highest voter turnout at . percent, while this years election had the lowest voter turnout rate. However, Khurelsukh won the highest percent of votes in the history of the countrys presidential elections. COVID restrictions His victory follows a series of COVID restrictions. Most outdoor events were canceled on Saturday after the candidate Enkhbat tested positive for the coronavirus. Mongolia introduced some of the strictest early measures against the virus and achieved early success in keeping numbers low. But cases have soared in recent months, although there have been impressive high rates of vaccination. Mongolia recorded , new COVID infections in the latest hour period, the highest daily spike since the outbreak began, bringing the national tally to ,, with  deaths, the countrys Health Ministry said on Thursday. The economy shrank by . percent in , its worst contraction since the early s and far from its peak growth rate of  percent in , figures from the International Monetary Fund and the Asian Development Bank showed. Mongolias political system gives its elected parliament the right to appoint governments and decide policy, but the president has the power to veto legislation and hire and fire judges. The presidency has often been controlled by the opposition party in the past. Khurelsukhs election is expected to give the MPP more control over the levers of power, although he is obliged to relinquish his party affiliation as soon as he takes office. Agencies  Xinhua