South Africa technically enters third COVID wave
2021-06-11 09:24
FILE PHOTO A woman receives a dose of a coronavirus disease COVID vaccine, as South Africa rolls out the coronavirus disease COVID vaccination to the elderly at the Munsieville Care for the Aged Centre outside Johannesburg, South Africa May , .PhotoAgencies    CAPE TOWN  South Africa technically entered the third wave of COVID on Thursday according to the statistics, the countrys National Institute for Communicable Diseases said in a statement of daily update on COVID. The national sevenday moving average incidence, which reached , cases, exceeded the new wave threshold defined by the Ministerial Advisory Committee of the government. The threshold was defined as  percent of the peak incidence of the previous wave. The statement also reported , new COVID cases, bringing the national tally to ,,. Thursdays positivity testing rate was . percent, it said. The majority of new cases reported on Thursday were from the Gauteng province, which hosts the nations economic hub Johannesburg and the administrative capital Pretoria, accounting for  percent of the cases, according to the statement. Western Cape province, home to the legislative capital Cape Town, came second with  percent of the new cases, it read. Previously, four of South Africas nine provinces, including Northern Cape, Free State, North West and Gauteng, had already entered a third wave at the provincial level. On Thursday morning, Western Cape said it was entering the third wave. The nation plans to vaccinate about  percent of the population by the end of this year with three phases to achieve herd immunity. Following the first phase for healthcare workers only, the current second phase inoculates persons aged  years and above first, who will be followed by other groups of people including essential workers, persons in congregate settings and persons over  years of age with comorbidities. South Africa, which has the highest national tally of COVID in Africa, moved to lockdown level two from the previous level one from May  as the number of infections began to rise sharply in several parts of the country and the positivity rate more than doubled in a month, from around  percent to more than  percent.