Mind the gap
2021-06-11 07:54
CAI MENGCHINA DAILY    Actions on both the supply and demand sides are imperative to close the vaccine divide as soon as possible The novel coronavirus outbreak is far from over. While the successful development of COVID vaccines has inspired hope that the pandemic will soon come to an end, a speedy global vaccination rollout faces several hurdles. One of these hurdles is the unequal access to vaccines that developed and developing countries have, the socalled vaccine divide. As of June , about  percent of the global population had been inoculated with at least a single dose of a COVID vaccine. However, the distribution is very uneven across regions and economies. In developed nations, more than  percent of the population has received at least one dose on average, while in developing countries and developing Asia, excluding China, the figure is  percent and  percent, respectively. For all the African countries combined, the figure is even more dismal, less than  percent. There are both supply side and demand side factors hindering the uptake of vaccines in developing countries. Bottlenecks in vaccine production and related supply chains and export bans by some countries have limited the overall global vaccine supply. Developing countries low secured purchases and orders of vaccine doses further constrain their access. According to data from Duke Universitys Global Health Innovation Center, as of the middle of May, the confirmed number of vaccine doses procured or ordered per person was . for highincome countries, but only . for uppermiddleincome countries and just . for low and lowermiddleincome countries combined. On the demand side, budget constraints are a major barrier. For the  low and lowermiddleincome countries supported by COVAX, a global initiative to promote fair access to vaccines, vaccinating  percent of the population to establish herd immunity is a very expensive undertaking. It would require spending the equivalent of at least onethird of these countries combined public health expenditure, at  per dosewhich is half the marked price of a Pfizer vaccine in highincome countrieseven if COVAX can achieve its original target of vaccinating  percent of these countries populations for free. Limited capacity for vaccine storage, distribution and administration is another key constraint. Even when supplies are available, many low and lowermiddleincome countries face significant challenges in administering the vaccines because of inadequate health infrastructure and trained health workers. The publics vaccine hesitancy, due to misinformation and inadequate knowledge on the safety and efficacy of the vaccines, or cultural and religious beliefs, exacerbates these challenges, as shown by several global surveys on peoples willingness to take COVID vaccines. The large vaccine divide poses a significant threat to the worlds economic recovery, since the virus knows no borders. The global community should act urgently to assist low and lowermiddleincome countries to ramp up their vaccination campaigns, not only out of a sense of moral responsibility, although there is that, but also because it is in every countrys own interest to do so, especially in view of the continued emergence of new variants of the virus, some of which may render existing vaccines ineffective. According to recent estimates of the International Monetary Fund, closing the vaccine divide will cost the global community  billion, but bring  trillion cumulative gains in terms of avoided economic losses. Closing the vaccine divide requires both supply and demandside actions. In the immediate term, vaccinesurplus rich nations should urgently share their excess stockpiles of vaccine doses with the vaccinedeficit poorer countries through COVAX. They should also lift any export restrictions on the vaccines and related raw materials. As an immediate step, the global community should support COVAXs call to equip it to deliver  billion doses . billion of which will go to the  low and lowermiddleincome countries in  in both vaccine supplies and needed funding. It should also work toward a transparent global arrangement through the World Health Organization or G to make the prices of COVID vaccines more affordable for the low and lowermiddleincome countries. Low and lowermiddleincome countries should mobilize all their available financial, institutional and health sector resources to address demandside constraints, including putting in place necessary logistics for vaccine storage, distribution and administration. They should also address vaccine hesitancy through effective awareness campaigns to inform the public of the importance, efficacy and safety of the vaccines, especially in rural areas, using new technologies such as targeted messaging through mobile devices and social media. As many believe the virus is likely to be around for some time, paying for vaccination drives will not be oneoff spending. Closing the vaccine divide also requires longerterm solutions. The global community should pitch in for a greater role of the global initiative, COVAX, by helping increase its vaccination target from the original  percent of the populations in low and lowermiddleincome countries to  percent, with more funding support from public and private donors. It should also help to build developing countries capacity to manufacture safe and effective COVID vaccines. Reaching a global agreement on a temporary waiver of the vaccines intellectual property rights will be a significant step in this regard. Voluntary licensing and technology transfers will also go a long way. Ample supply will bring down vaccine prices. Developing countries, especially lowand lowermiddleincome countries, on the other hand, should scale up investments in infrastructure and capacity for vaccine distribution and administration, in broad public health systems, with the support of bilateral donors and multilateral development banks. At the G Leaders Global Health Summit and World Health Assembly held in May and the World Vaccine Conference in June, governments were united in recognizing the urgency of closing the vaccine divide. The time to translate words into more action is now. Zhuang Juzhong is joint chief economist at the International Finance Forum and former deputy chief economist of the Asian Development Bank. Jade Tolentino is a consultant for the International Finance Forum. The authors contributed this article to China Watch, a think tank powered by China Daily. The views do not necessarily reflect those of China Daily.