US extends expiration dates for JJ COVID vaccine by  weeks
2021-06-11 05:07
FILE PHOTO Vials with a sticker reading, COVID  Coronavirus vaccine  Injection only and a medical syringe are seen in front of a displayed Johnson  Johnson logo in this illustration taken October , . PhotoAgencies    WASHINGTON  Johnson  Johnson said Thursday that US regulators extended the expiration date on millions of doses of its COVID vaccine by six weeks. The company said a Food and Drug Administration review concluded the shots remain safe and effective for at least   months. In February, the FDA originally authorized JJs vaccine for up to three months when stored at normal refrigeration levels. Thursdays announcement comes after state officials warned that many doses in storage would expire before the end of the month. Vaccine expiration dates are based on information from drugmakers on how long the shots stay at the right strength. JJ said the FDA added six weeks based on data from ongoing studies assessing the vaccines stability. The FDA has been reviewing expiration dates on all three US authorized vaccines as companies have continued to test batches in the months since the shots first rolled out. The vaccines from Pfizer and Moderna, authorized in December, have a sixmonth shelf life. The JJ extension will help maintain vaccine supplies even as the number of Americans getting shots has slipped. The country averaged about , new injections per day last week. Thats down from a high of nearly  million daily shots two months ago. Government officials and companies have turned to incentives to encourages shots, including paid time off to  million lottery prizes. As vaccinations have slowed its become clear the US is unlikely to meet President Joe Bidens goal to have  of adults partially vaccinated by July . Roughly  of Americans older than  have had at least one dose, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. JJs vaccine was highly anticipated because of its oneanddone formulation and easytoship refrigeration. The shot was expected to play a key role in vaccination campaigns in rural areas and lowincome countries with limited health care infrastructure. But rival drugmakers Pfizer and Moderna, which started shipping shots months earlier, have already supplied more than enough doses to meet US demand. More than  million Americans have been fully vaccinated with the companies twodose shots. By comparison, just  million Americans have been vaccinated with the JJ shot. About  million more JJ doses have been sent to states, according to the CDC. Use of JJs vaccine has been hurt by links to a rare blood clot disorder. That issue led US health officials to pause use of the shot for an day review. Officials lifted the hold in late April after concluding that the vaccines benefits outweighed its risks JJs rollout has also been slowed by contamination problems at a Baltimore factory that helps make the shots. The facility was shuttered after an FDA inspection uncovered unsanitary conditions and other problems in April. None of the vaccines made there have been distributed. AP Health Writer Linda A. Johnson contributed to this report. The Associated Press Health and Science Department receives support from the Howard Hughes Medical Institutes Department of Science Education. The AP is solely responsible for all content.