Canada looking to ease restrictions in stages from July, minister says
2021-06-10 09:55
A patient receives a COVID vaccine at a clinic, as efforts continue to help slow the spread of the coronavirus disease, in Ottawa, Ontario, Canada March , . PhotoAgencies    OTTAWA  Canadian Health Minister Patty Hajdu announced on Wednesday that Canada is looking to ease some COVID restrictions in stages, starting in early July. She said fullyvaccinated Canadians and permanent residents crossing the border into Canada will no longer be required to stay at a hotel for part of their quarantine period. But they will have to take a COVID test on arrival and have an isolation plan until their test comes back negative. The announcement comes after calls to end mandatory hotel quarantines and permit fully vaccinated Canadians to move around more freely. However, seeing these changes become a reality will depend on whether there are any concerning fluctuations in new case counts and vaccination rates, as well as pending consultations with provinces and territories. These metrics are very important factors as we move towards implementing the changes on the border that we hope to have in place in early July, said Hajdu. If we can keep our communities safe and free of COVID, then we will not have to return to measures that are so difficult for everyone. Well be watching carefully here in Canada and around the world as cases change and as vaccination rates rise, the minister added. All indicators of COVID disease activity and severity continue to decline in Canada. The countrys sevenday averages for case counts have fallen below , cases reported daily for the first time since the fall of , said Theresa Tam, Canadas chief public health officer, in a statement on Wednesday. Tam said the latest sevenday average for the number of people with COVID being treated in hospitals each day has dropped more than  percent since the peak to under , daily. Of these, on average, less than  were being treated in intensive care units, which is  percent fewer than the peak number, and average daily deaths are also down to almost  percent to  deaths being reported daily, she added. As of Wednesday afternoon, Canada reported a cumulative total of ,, COVID cases, including , fatalities, according to CTV.