COVID vaccine Covaxin offers protection against Beta, Delta variants early study
2021-06-09 21:07
A Central Industrial Security Force officer receives a dose of Bharat Biotechs coronavirus disease COVID vaccine, called COVAXIN, at a vaccination centre in New Delhi, India, March , . PhotoAgencies    NEW DELHI  A joint study by researchers from Punes National Institute of Virology, the Indian Council of Medical Research ICMR and Bharat Biotech has found that the countrys indigenous COVID vaccine, Covaxin, offers protection against the Beta B.. and the Delta B... variants, local media reports said Wednesday. The Delta variant B... was first found in India and is the dominant strain in the country. The strain caused the deadly second wave in the country. The Beta variant B.. was first discovered in South Africa. The study evaluated the neutralisation potential of sera collected from  COVID recovered cases and  people vaccinated with two doses of Covaxin against Beta and Delta variants and compared it with the prototype DG variant. There was a reduction in the neutralisation titre values in people administered Covaxin against Beta and Delta variants, but this reduction was lower than in those who were naturally infected, Dr Pragya Yadav, scientist E and group leader, maximum containment facility, ICMRNIV was quoted in local media as having said. The study is a preprint and not yet peerreviewed. Covaxin demonstrated protective response against the two variants of concern, the study said. According to a local television news channel NDTV, ICMR chief Balram Bhargava is among the authors of the report. Earlier this week, another preprint study, yet to be peerreviewed reportedly said Serum Institutes Covishield vaccine produced more antibodies than Covaxin. The study was done by Coronavirus Vaccineinduced Antibody Titre COVAT involving healthcare workers HCW who have received both doses of either of the two vaccines that are being administered in India. India started the vaccination against COVID by administrating two madeinIndia vaccines  Covishield and Covaxin. Serum Institute of India is manufacturing AstraZenecaOxford Universitys Covishield, while Bharat Biotech which has partnered with the Indian Council of Medical Research ICMR is manufacturing Covaxin.