Bidens July Fourth vaccine goal may be missed
2021-06-08 11:07
A local resident receives a dose of the PfizerBioNTech vaccine for the coronavirus disease COVID, during a vaccination event for adolescents and adults outside the Bronx Writing Academy school in the Bronx borough of New York City, on June , . PhotoAgencies    The COVID vaccination rate in the US has fallen to new lows in recent weeks, threatening President Joe Bidens goal of having  percent of American adults with at least one shot by July . With just less than one month from July , the current vaccination rate will put the US at somewhere between  percent and  percent of the adult population with at least one dose by Independence Day. To reach  percent by July , around . percent of the population needs to get their first dose per week from now until July . The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention CDC reported last week that  percent of adults had received their first dose of a COVID vaccine. That was up slightly from  percent from the report a week prior. The additional  percent of adults completing their first dose is the lowest since the CDC started tracking the vaccination rate in midFebruary. On average, fewer than  million shots are given out per day, a decline of more than twothirds from the peak of . million in April, The Washington Post reported, despite that anyone age  and older can now get one of the three approved vaccines in the US. In South Carolina, about , residents got a shot in the week leading up to June , compared to a high of nearly , in one week in early April, according to data from the CDC. The slowdown is more prominent across the South and Midwest. Twelve states, including Utah, Oklahoma, Montana, the Dakotas and West Virginia, have seen vaccinations fall to  daily shots per , residents Alabama had just four people per , residents get vaccinated last week, according to data from the Post. Tennessee and five other states are at  percent or below and vaccinating at current low rates, making those states unlikely to meet the presidents threshold. Less than a quarter of black Americans had received their first COVID shot as of June  based on available federal data. Thats less than other racial and ethnic groups tracked by the CDC. We still have some places where the past history of bias, discrimination and hate has just caused such an ingrained mistrust of political and social structures that its hard to break through that, James Hildreth, CEO of Meharry Medical College and a member of the White Houses COVID Health Equity Task Force, told Politico. We need to make a stronger effort to bring the vaccine to the communities, rather than relying on the communities to come to vaccination centers. The steep decline in vaccination began in midApril when federal officials temporarily suspended the Johnson  Johnson vaccine while they investigated rare bloodclotting reactions. The lowhanging fruit  those people who absolutely want to get vaccinated without you telling them anything have already been vaccinated, which has led to the slowdown, Dr Anthony Fauci, director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, said on a White Houseorganized call with community leaders last week, according to the Post.