Would the US help us if we were invaded by aliensor a virus?
2021-11-05 11:19
The dome of the US Capitol Building is seen as the sun sets on Capitol Hill in Washington, on July , . PhotoAgencies    In a recent essay published in the New York Times, Thomas Friedman, a columnist famous for his book The World is Flat, argued China is leveraging the issue of climate change for its own good, including on the Taiwan question. But the key point Friedman is trying to push, as shown in the title Would Russia or China Help Us if We Were Invaded by Space Aliens? is contradictory. Friedman cited an essay by researcher Robert Litwak who said former Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev was once approached by former US president Ronald Reagan at a summit meeting and asked What would you do if the United States were suddenly attacked by someone from outer space? Would you help us? Gorbachevs answer was No doubt about it. I understand climate change is a potential global catastrophe and needs a universal effort to triumph. However, the alien analogy has several defects. First of all, although Ronald Reagan is a big scifi fan  remember Star Wars?  his question shows no understanding of science. Imagine an alien civilization, capable of traveling across the vastness of space. This would mean for them, humanity is in the Stone Age or worse. So say they actually came to planet Earth to invade only the United States. Why? This reflects an attitude of American selfcenteredness. Even in Roland Emmerichs jingoistic scifi movie Independence Day,aliens attack the whole Earth, not the US alone. The late American astronomer Carl Sagan cited a slightly different version of the GorbachevReagan talk in his book Billions and Billions. In that version, Reagan did refer to an alien invasion of the US, but it was an invasion of the whole planet that united the Soviet Union and US. I think thats a better way to put it. But climate change is different from an alien invasion. In such a scenario, the US would be a victim. However, for climate change, we cannot argue US that. Climatealtering greenhouse gases have been accumulating in Earths atmosphere since the Industrial Revolution. These old greenhouse gases, were largely produced by Western countries that industrialized early. They dont magically disappear. Though Friedman and most Western media outlets emphasize China has the most greenhouse gas emissions, they dont tell you Chinas annual emissions only began to exceed those of the US about a decade ago. From a historical perspective, the US released  percent of total greenhouse gases since the Industrial Revolution, while the figure for China is  percent. In , the carbon dioxide emissions percapita in the US was . metric tons, while Chinas figure is ., lower than Japans .  a country regarded as highly energy efficient. With great historical greenhouse emissions comes great responsibility. That is especially true for the US. In this sense, what we are facing is not a threat from outer space, but a threat largely created by the West. If you looked more closely at Friedmans argument, you would find it quite bizarre. Dont forget, Friedmans starting point is an alien invasion. If an alien is capable of interstellar travel, it must be so powerful the only possible way to fight it is by uniting all of humanity. Thats the whole point of the argument. However, Friedman proposed an Earth race against greenhouse emissions. He said US President Joe Biden should declare Americas intention to win the Earth race, to make America the first country to invent and deploy the most cleanpower technologies and drive them down the cost curve so that everyone on the planet can afford them. Alas, if the current climate change is so pressing  and it is  shouldnt we gather all the talented brainpower on Earth to tackle it, asking scientists all over the world to work together on clean energy sources? Declaring a race against climate change means going it alone. Would Friedman suggest the US declare such a proposal over a real alien invasion because the US is so starspangled awesome, or did he watch too much Squid Game ? Friedman said launching such a race is a way for America to reclaim some moral leadership on the world stage. Reclaim moral leadership? Shouldnt this be about saving humanity? Since when has such a mission been about a power struggle? And for a country that quit the Paris agreement under the Trump administration, a reclaimed moral leadership is so flimsy we dont even know if the tide will be turned again three years later, let alone the promise  with no action to back it  of cutting half of US emissions by . Talking about moral leadership, I would like to modify the title of Friedmans essay and ask, would the US help us if we were invaded by a virus? COVID emerged from nature, not by aliens from outer space. However, if we think of the virus as an alien invasion it would be devastating Five million people have died of the disease, including more than , Americans. And what did the US do? It stockpiled a disproportionately large amount of COVID vaccines than it needed and declined to share them with poor countries before most American people got vaccinated. Many of those doses expired, excess vaccines that could have been used to contain the pandemic, protect medical staff and prevent deadly mutations, which already render vaccines less effective. Stockpiling vaccine wont help the US or the rest of the world. Thats not the only sign of the USs refusal to help. The USs stigmatization of COVID provoked hate against Asian people, and its politicization of origintracing is an obstacle to preventing future infectious diseases. The US pushed conspiracy theories against China, falsely arguing the virus leaked from a lab, and outlets like the New York Times had no problem repeating them. So, if we are invaded by aliens  or a virus will the US help, Mr. Friedman? I think we can all see the answer for ourselves. The author is a science writer. The opinions expressed here are those of the writer and do not necessarily represent the views of China Daily and China Daily website. If you have a specific expertise, or would like to share your thought about our stories, then send us your writings at opinionchinadaily.com.cn, and commentchinadaily.com.cn.