Guangzhou COVID reports coming slower
2021-06-07 17:59
Volunteers in charge of delivering necessities for residents under home quarantine pose for a group photo at a residential area at Liwan district of Guangzhou, capital of South Chinas Guangdong province, June , . PhotoXinhua    Guangzhou, Guangdong province, reported four locally transmitted COVID cases on Sunday, including three confirmed cases and one asymptomatic carrier, as the city continues its prevention and control measures. All the cases were detected in the medium and highrisk areas in Guangzhous Liwan district during mass screening in the area, as well as among close contacts with previous patients and asymptomatic carriers, said Chen Bin, deputy director of the Guangzhou health commission, at a news conference on Monday. Because of the progress achieved in fighting the coronavirus, Nansha district resumed operations of its buses, subways, ferries, taxis, online carhailing and other public transportation tools on Monday. The district suspended all public transportation service late on Saturday when six members of a local family were confirmed with coronavirus, including asymptomatic carriers. In Liwan district, a previously mediumrisk housing estate on Longjin street was lowered to a lowrisk designation over the weekend. Despite the achievement, concrete measures continue to be introduced to prevent the spread of the coronavirus in the southern metropolis, which has a population of about  million. According to Chen of the health commission, people who want to leave Guangzhou will be required to show negative coronavirus test results starting at noon on Monday to prevent the virus from spreading to other parts of the country. Guangzhou has established , sample collection centers for nucleic acid tests, employing , medical workers. As of the end of Sunday, about . million samples have been collected, with six positive results reported in the past three days, Chen said. Zhang Zhoubin, deputy director of the Guangzhou Center for Disease Prevention and Control, said local residents who have received a first dose of vaccine can make a reservation online for a second dose starting on Sunday afternoon. The city temporarily suspended personal reservations for vaccinations starting May , as most of the citys medical staff have been sent to conduct mass testing to screen suspected COVID cases. Gu Zhongpeng, deputy director of the Guangzhou bureau of education, said the citys national college entrance examination, or gaokao, was safe and orderly on its first day. A total of , students participated in the examinations in the city this year. Of those, two asymptomatic carriers were able to take the examination in isolated wards at Guangzhou Eighth Peoples Hospital. Guangdong reported five locally transmitted confirmed cases on Sunday. In Shenzhen, a man surnamed Luo, who had tested negative  times earlier, was found positive after his th test on Saturday. Luo, , a worker in the citys Yantian port, was confirmed with COVID by medical experts after his test came out positive again on Sunday. Luo, whose case has been identified as an importrelated one, has now been sent to Shenzhen Third Peoples Hospital for treatment. The province detected another two asymptomatic carriers in Guangzhou and Zhanjiang on Sunday.