Bills to pay
2021-11-05 07:32
MA XUEJINGCHINA DAILY    The current times require intensely working together to address common challenges, by identifying and implementing shared, coordinated and equitable responses. This requires vision, dialogue, mutual understanding, and a profound awareness of our common global responsibilities. We also need to look beyond the COVID crisis, toward a rapid economic recovery that addresses peoples needs. This implies a focus on reducing inequalities, on womens empowerment, on the younger generations and on protecting the most vulnerable. It means promoting the creation of new jobs, social protection and food security. This was the message from the  G Summit held last weekend in Rome. The G forum is definitely more representative of humanity and the world economy than the meetings of the leaders of rich countries, the G, which focus mainly on their own interests, or the BRICS group, whose members have little in common. The Gor more precisely the G, because it includes  countries plus the European Union, which, apart from the three largest countries already included in the group, Germany, France and Italy, includes  other countrieshas become an additional, apart from international organizations, mechanism for global policy coordination. Such coordination in the face of a volatile world is especially needed. As always, the expectations for the summit were enormous, and it deliveredalso as alwaysless than anticipated. However, the little it has delivered is of importance. The G, whose rotating host country this time was Italy, was held under the slogan P People, Planet, Prosperity. Although a seemingly minor decision, the summits resolution to apply a minimum taxation of company profits at the level of  percent is noteworthy. This should stop the developmentdamaging race to the bottom tax competition. Much more important, however, was the decision to provide less developed countries, especially the poorest, with COVID vaccines free of charge. China has done this already, without the blessing of the other G members, and more than any other country. Let us recall here that it was President Xi Jinping, who, more than a year agowhen no vaccines had been developedwas the first to say that the vaccines must be a global public good. It is a pity that the action, which requires good coordination on a global scale, did not start earlier and has not moved faster. In the third decade of the st century, it is already obvious that the greatest existential threat to humanity is climate change, largely caused by human economic activity. This aspect of the summit, headed in a pragmatic manner by Italian Prime Minister Mario Draghi, was the most important. The more so as the participants of the G meeting went directly from Rome to the United Nations conference on climate change, COP , in Glasgow, Scotland. Correct targeting of actions to counteract the continuation of disastrous climate trends requires not only knowledge of what can be done on the technological side to accelerate the shift to renewable sources of energy, but also a strong political commitment to act and clear decisions about who and to what extent is responsible for the current state of affairs. The distribution of the costs of actions to be undertaken in the following years by individual countries and by integration groups must be based on this assessment. Not the one who currently is, but the one who was in the past the greatest polluter should bear the greatest burden for the fight to limit the global temperature rise. Most often, the answer is deceptiveand at the same time highly politicizingthat the worst contributor to the climate crisis is the one who emits the most greenhouse gases, especially carbon dioxide. And it is known that China is currently the largest emitter of carbon dioxide, so attempts are being made to direct world public opinion against it. This, which is by no means conducive to inclusive globalization, makes the mood of Sinophobia even stronger in certain countries. Yes, China sends into the atmosphere about  percent of the total volume of global CO emissions, twice as much as the United States, which emits about  percent, but per capita, which is a more appropriate measure, the Chinese release just half of what people in the US do, respectively . and . metric tons annually. Fairness requires an answer not only to the question who is emitting how much in , but also who has released how much altogether so far. It is not difficult to identify who are the main culprits for our predicament. It is the richest economies of the West, with the US at the forefront. Starting the counting from , Chinas entire emissions of CO, huge amounts of which still exist in the atmosphere surrounding the Earth, contributing to its heating, amounts to . percent, while the US historical contribution to this global furnace is almost twice this, as much as . percent. The countries of the European Union plus the United Kingdom, account for . percent, India . percent, Africa . percent and South America . percent. The sinking islands of Oceania only . percent. When one looks at the issue from this perspective, it is hardly surprising that poorer countries request greater sacrifice from the wealthy of this world. Historical bills must be paid fairly, without demanding that the skinny ones now tighten their belts on the same scale as the obese who consumed energy in the past without moderation. It is therefore not surprising that at the COP , Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi declared his countrys intention to achieve net zero carbon emissions only in .President Xi proclaimed China would make effort to achieve carbon neutrality before , while developed countries declared their target was by , although they would attempt to achieve it earlier. Net zero represents a situation where greenhouse gases emitted to the atmosphere are counterbalanced by their removal. Further social pressure should therefore force not so much to shorten the period to reach net zero in all countries, but to accelerate the transition to such a desired state in the richest countries. After all, they have contributed the most to bringing us all to a verge of cataclysm. The author is professor of economics at Kozminski University in Warsaw and distinguished professor of Belt and Road School at Beijing Normal University. The author contributed this article to China Watch, a think tank powered by China Daily.The views do not necessarily reflect those of China Daily. Contact the editor at editorchinawatch.cn