China holds gaokao with tailored COVID control measures in place
2021-06-07 11:52
Students enter a venue in Chaoyang district, Beijing to sit the National College Entrance Examination on June , . Photo by Wang Zhuangfeichinadaily.com.cn    BEIJING  Chinas annual college entrance exam, better known as the gaokao, kicked off Monday morning with a record . million candidates signing up for perhaps the worlds most grueling test. This is also the biggestever collectively organized event since the coronavirus outbreak, witnessing millions of students in around , venues across the country. Last year, gaokao was delayed by one month in most parts of the country. Local governments at various levels have customized epidemic control measures to ensure the safety of students and the smooth progress of the exam, which is still deemed a fatechanging opportunity for many. In the southern city of Guangzhou, where new cluster infections emerged recently, the test is being conducted under strict antiepidemic measures. More than , candidates and some , people related to the exam in Guangzhou had completed two rounds of nucleic acid testing as of Sunday, and all relevant staff members have been vaccinated. The Guangzhou Eighth Peoples Hospital, where two senior high school students tested positive for COVID, has set up special rooms in the isolation ward for the students and installed highdefinition surveillance cameras for realtime audio and video recording. The invigilators will monitor the exam from a designated area. In the Golog Tibetan autonomous prefecture, which was hit by a . magnitude earthquake in late May, a total of  candidates will take the exam in tents as aftershocks are still active in the region. Each tent measuring approximately  square meters in size can house  students, according to the prefectures education bureau. A total of , students signed up for gaokao in Beijing this year. They will take the exam in , exam halls across  venues. Beijing has made it mandatory for all frontline exam staff to be vaccinated, and a negative nucleic acid test within a week should be provided. Temperature screening, disinfection and ventilation will be strictly implemented during the exam.