Latest evidence reaffirms Chinese vaccines benefits to the world
2021-06-07 10:05
A health worker prepares a dose of Sinovac vaccine at a vaccination site in Manila, the Philippines on March , . PhotoXinhua    Two most recent developments on COVID vaccines developed by Chinese pharmaceutical companies are encouraging On Tuesday, the World Health Organization WHO validated Sinovacs CoronaVac vaccine for emergency use, paving the way for the second Chinese shot to be used more widely in the world two inactivated vaccines of Sinopharm have shown to be safe and effective against COVID in phase human trials, according to a study published last week in The Journal of the American Medical Association JAMA. In the WHOs approval, efficacy results of the Sinovac vaccine showed that it prevented symptomatic disease in  percent of those vaccinated and prevented severe COVID and hospitalization in  percent of the studied population. Furthermore, the easy storage requirements of CoronaVac make it very suitable for lowresource settings, as stated by WHO DirectorGeneral Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus. To put it simply, its a boon for people in underdeveloped countries. As for the two inactivated vaccines of Sinopharm, the study in JAMA showed an efficacy of . percent and . percent respectively in symptomatic COVID cases, with rare serious adverse effects reported. It is the worlds first published phase study result of inactivated COVID vaccines. The study is a strong response to doubts that China was somehow hiding the vaccine data  no it is not, it just took some time, as latestage trials could not be carried out inside the country, where there were not enough COVID cases to test the jab. As the trials are held in other countries where regulations, language, and other conditions are different and crossborder cooperation is required, it is not strange that collecting the data, writing the paper, and ultimately the publication of such a peerreviewed study took a bit longer. Outside clinical trials, results of realworld studies are impressive. Indonesia tracked , health workers in the capital Jakarta for  days after they received their second dose of the Sinovac vaccine and found that the jab saved all of them from death and prevented hospitalization of  percent as soon as seven days later, Health Minister Budi Gunadi Sadikin said in an interview with Bloomberg in May. An unprecedented experiment in the world, carried out in Brazils small town of Serrana, in Sao Paulo State, showed that after  percent of the adult population received two doses of Sinovacs CoronaVac vaccine, deaths from COVID were reduced by  percent, hospitalizations by  percent, and cases with symptoms by  percent, local authorities said. Not unrelated to the stockpiling of vaccines and export control in a few developed countries, the pandemic is recently rising in the south and falling in the north. In contrast, China is determined to share the vaccines from early on. While meeting demand at home, China has provided more than  million doses to the international community. This is in stark contrast to the ourselves first approach of some Western countries. China supports the World Trade Organization in making a decision, at an early date, to waive the intellectual property rights of COVID vaccines, and also supports the technology transfer from its own vaccine enterprises to other developing countries, and cooperative production, so as to provide new assistance to eliminate the global vaccine divide. By doing so, China walks the talk to promote the fairer distribution of jabs and resists vaccine nationalism.