Isolated exam sites ready in Guangzhou
2021-06-07 07:24
PhotoIC    Eleven isolated examination sites have been prepared in Guangzhou, capital of Guangdong province, for the national college entrance examination, as the city takes precautionary measures against a COVID outbreak. Students who have come into contact with confirmed COVID cases will take the exam in isolation under the supervision of medical staff and educational officials, said Gu Zhongpeng, deputy director of Guangzhous education bureau. All students and working staff have finished two rounds of nucleic acid tests, with all staff members vaccinated, Gu said, adding that some students were still under observation. The city has , students who are going to sit for this years college entrance examination, or gaokao, which will take place from Monday to Wednesday, Gu said. Nine more isolated examination sites have also been reserved, he said, without revealing how many students would take the exam in isolation due to their health status. Among the isolation sites is a special examination room at the Guangzhou Eighth Peoples Hospital set up for a yearold student, who is an asymptomatic case. The student, who is under good care in the hospital, is fully prepared to take the examination in an isolated room, Gu said. The student has already had a health assessment by doctors and will be accompanied by two examination officials and two medical workers during the test. The papers will be fully disinfected after the student finishes the examination. We wish the student all the best, Gu said. Chen Weihong, deputy principal of True Light High School, said the school has restricted student access. As it is located at the Baihedong subdistrict in Liwan district, a highrisk area, only students who are going to take the examination are allowed to stay in the school, Chen said. Guangzhou reported nine new locally transmitted COVID cases on Saturday, including six confirmed cases and three asymptomatic carriers, bringing the citys total number of confirmed cases and asymptomatic carriers to  since May , according to the citys health commission. Of the new cases, six were detected in Nansha district, forcing the district in the southern part of Guangzhou to suspend subway, bus, ferry and other public transportation starting on late Saturday. The six are family members who live together. They have all been sent to the Guangzhou Eighth Peoples Hospital for treatment, said Xie Ming, deputy head of Nansha.