Chip, growth shares lift SP , Nasdaq to record highs
2021-11-05 04:40
Nov   The SP  and Nasdaq rose to record highs on Thursday as chipmaker stocks surged following Qualcomms strong financial forecast and investors digested the Federal Reserves decision to start reducing its monthly bond purchases.The Dow Jones Industrial Average slipped from an alltime closing high hit on Wednesday, dragged down by shares of banks JPMorgan Chase  Co and Goldman Sachs Group.Financials dropped sharply as U.S. Treasury yields fell, with the market unwinding expectations of quicker Fed rate hikes a day after the central bank signaled it was in no hurry to do so.The growth side of the market is seeing more positive results today as they are benefiting from the falling yields that are developing, said Matthew Miskin, cochief investment strategist at John Hancock Investment Management.The market had been positioning for higher yields in general given the Fed announcement of tapering. As we walked in today, there has been a reversal in that.According to preliminary data, the SP  gained . points, or ., to end at ,. points, while the Nasdaq Composite gained . points, or ., to ,.. The Dow Jones Industrial Average fell . points, or ., to ,..Among SP  sectors, consumer discretionary and tech posted strong gains.Qualcomm shares jumped as the company forecast betterthanexpected profits and revenue for its current quarter on soaring demand for chips used in phones, cars and other internetconnected devices.The Philadelphia SE Semiconductor index climbed, with Nvidia soaring.Betterthanexpected thirdquarter earnings have helped lift sentiment for equities. With about  companies having reported, SP  earnings are expected to have climbed . in the third quarter from a year earlier, according to Refinitiv IBES.The corporate earnings story remains quite bright, said Craig Fehr, investment strategist at Edward Jones.The market is rewarding companies that are beating and upping their outlook, and the market is punishing companies that are missing their estimates in the quarter and more importantly, perhaps, signaling a more sour outlook.Moderna shares tumbled as the company slashed the  sales forecast for its COVID vaccine by as much as  billion, grappling to fill vials and distribute them to meet unprecedented world demand. Moderna shares weighed on the SP  healthcare sectorData showed the number of Americans filing new claims for unemployment benefits fell to the lowest level in nearly  months last week, suggesting the economy was regaining momentum.Investors will get a critical view of the economy with the monthly jobs report on Friday.Reuters