Tea tales say it all
2021-06-05 16:06
With COVID gradually easing off, consumption power is regaining momentum. But industry experts say a full recovery is still a ways off. Zeng Xinlan reports from Hong Kong.       Would you wait six hours just for a cup of milk tea? Most people wouldnt, but young, urban consumers in the long lines outside a popular popup store in Shenzhen chose otherwise. Sexy Tea, better known by its Chinese name, Chayan Yuese  a viral tea brand hailing from Changsha, the capital of Central Chinas Hunan province  picked Shenzhen for its first popup store in the Chinese mainlands toptier cities. The reception was phenomenal, drawing tens of thousands of customers who waited in line for up to six hours to get their cups of tea, much to the displeasure of the local traffic police. A cup of Orchid Latte  the stores signature milk tea priced at  yuan US., with a black tea base and whipped cream and topped with roasted pecans  was even at the mercy of scalpers, who resold it for more than  yuan. With that much time and money spent on getting it, you might as well take the highspeed train to Changsha instead, a netizen on Weibo wrote. As the economy rebounds along with the warm weather, having a drink of milk tea has become the inthing among avid, social mediasavvy consumers. Mainland residents in March purchased an average of two or more cups of the beverage at brickandmortar stores and . more cups from online platforms compared with the number in February, according to the Alipay Spring Milk Tea Report. Hong Kong shares the mainlands milk tea craze. And the comeback of milk tea in the special administrative region tells a bigger story, as it is part and parcel of the citys . percent yearonyear increase in GDP in the first quarter. Economic growth was up . percent from the previous quarter. Our business had gone up by some  percent in the first quarter of this year, compared to the fourth quarter of , said Daniel Wong, marketing manager of Chicha San Chen, a Taiwan milktea brand that opened its first store in the SAR in October . He attributed the growth to the early advent of summer, lower retail store rentals, and improved consumer sentiment as the pandemic tapers off. Young people are less worried about COVID now, Wong said. Nighttime consumption is rising as Hong Kong people are more willing to stay out late for shopping compared to the last quarter, he said, adding that consumers linger on the streets much longer compared with a few months ago. The Hong Kong Observatory issued its first very hot weather warning for this year early last month. The hot weather has boosted our milk tea business, said Wong, anticipating the business will continue to benefit from the summer season. I expect our business to grow by  to  percent this year compared to last years. With lower store rentals, the newstyle tea brand plans to open its second brickandmortar store in one of Hong Kongs prime commercial districts, such as Tsim Sha Tsui and Causeway Bay. Shops rents have dropped significantly by up to  percent in Causeway Bay, he said, adding that Chicha San Chens rental has also been cut by HK, US amid the pandemicbattered economy. Were expecting greater competition though, said Wong, adding that milk tea outlets have been springing up, taking advantage of the reviving consumption climate. Im seeing more bubble tea shops popping up, said milk tea addict Vania Mak, who works for a consultancy firm. Battered catering industry The buoyant business sentiment has also spread to cha chaan teng, or traditional Hong Kongstyle cafes. I see many new restaurants having sprung up near mine, said Peter Tam, owner and director of Man Fan Cafe, which operates three restaurants in the city. It opened its first outlet in the Tuen Mun district  years ago. Our business is still down by  percent compared to its peak, he said, referring to the first quarter of  as the peak season. The momandpop restaurant broke even during the first quarter of  for the first time since the pandemic struck. Weve been losing money for more than  months, having lost  percent of the overall revenue during the period, Tam said. He blamed sluggish consumption sentiment and restaurant capacity restrictions capped at  percent under the governments mandatory social distancing measures. The restaurant saw its worst period in the fourth quarter of last year, when business plunged by  percent compared with prepandemic levels. At that time, the economy was in the doldrums and many people were out of work. Cha chaan teng, such as ours, cater to the lowerincome group. They would still have to save money by buying breakfast from bakeries for just HK instead of eating here, which costs about HK. Thats why we lost so much income, he added. I expect business to return to preCOVID levels in the fourth quarter, said Tam, adding that retail business has been improving since early this year. Our restaurants revenue rose by  percent in the first quarter, compared to the same period last year, due to growing consumption sentiment among residents as the pandemic is gradually being brought under control. Personal consumption has also gone up. People on average are spending  percent more each time at restaurants, compared to last year, Tam said. This is much higher than the local GDP growth for the first quarter of . Despite the notable improvement in the business environment, Tam isnt confident that restaurants performance this year will beat that of . Some people are still reluctant to dine out, and prefer to buy things from supermarkets instead. For our type of restaurants, the governments handing out of consumption vouchers will help, but the effect will be limited. Economists arent that optimistic as well. While the food and beverage sector will also benefit from a recovering economy, it wont be as dramatic, based on the latest GDP figure, said Kelvin Lau, a senior economist at Standard Chartered Greater China. He explained that the growth was heavily driven by external factors, especially the overall global economic recovery. If you discount the boost the Hong Kong economy gets from the external environment and just focus on the internal factors, including food and beverage, you can see the recovery is much more modest. Hong Kongs private consumption in the first quarter grew by . percent yearonyear against an exceptionally low base of comparison amid the fourth wave of COVID infections and stunted outbound tourism, according to the governments First Quarter Economic Report . Consumption and investment demand has revived somewhat, but remained relatively subdued, said government economist Andrew Au Sikhung. He said he expects the local economic recovery to be uneven and overall economic activity to stay below prerecession levels, particularly consumerrelated activities. The . percent growth is still a big improvement by its own standard, but its nowhere as strong as the GDP indicated, said Lau, blaming the high unemployment rate, the relatively slow rollout of vaccines, and consumers cautious attitude. He suggested the latest figures be compared to those of . The citys total retail sales in March were down by more than  percent from the same month in , according to Census and Statistics Department statistics. Growth trend The pentup demand from shoppers with deeper pockets accrued from the pandemic could also fan the recovery as people would tend to shop and dine out domestically, with the outbound travel curbs still in place, Lau said. However, the spillover is likely to be uneven, depending on the nature of the business. Restaurants that cater mainly to banquets and other private events will continue to be constrained by the social gathering restrictions. Highend restaurants, in particular, are expected to benefit more from the pentup demand due to the effects of stalled global travel, Lau said. Momandpop stores have been more nimble, but theyve been benefitting from the surge in food delivery services. Pirata Group  a Hong Kongbased Italian cuisine brand operating  restaurants in the city  has also found itself a part of the growth trend. Weve seen a substantial increase in business, said Manuel Palacio, the groups cofounder and chief executive. He said restaurants have benefitted from the new consumer behavior, such as ordering lunches for leisure and having early dinners during the dinein lockdown. Brunches on weekends have become our new Friday nights. However, the restaurant expects the best is yet to come years from now, long after the pandemic is gone. Dont forget, were still running restaurants at limited capacity, with restricted opening hours and number of guests. Besides, tourism has yet to return, Palacio said. We still have a long way to go. Lau agreed that the road to a full economic recovery remains way off. He sees the domestic sector returning to pre levels by the end of this year. Even with that, I think we still do sound a bit optimistic. I think its going to be more like a  story.