Forum stresses joint COVID efforts
2021-06-05 07:09
The opening ceremony of the second Global Health Expo of Boao Forum for Asia is held on June  in Qingdao, Shandong province. Photo provided to chinadaily.com.cn    Top officials from governments and international organizations as well as health experts have reemphasized their joint efforts in fighting COVID worldwide, especially in terms of ensuring equal access to vaccinations and criticizing politicization of the virus, at a recent highprofile event in Qingdao, Shandong province. Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, directorgeneral of the World Health Organization, said low and middleincome countries have access to less than  percent of the worlds vaccines despite the fact that they account for around half of the worlds population. Vaccine equity is not charity. Its investing in ending the pandemic, restoring confidence and driving a truly global recovery, Tedros said during the nd Conference of Global Health Forum of Boao Forum for Asia, which concluded on Friday. Li Bin, vicechairperson of the th National Committee of the Chinese Peoples Political Consultative Conference, called for unity and cooperation from countries worldwide to build a global community of health. China always places high importance on the life and health of its people and has supported global cooperation against the COVID pandemic while properly coping with the domestic contagion situation, Li said. The international community should make unremitting efforts to enhance the public health system, uphold multilateralism in improving global health governance and make basic medical and health services fair and accessible, Li added. In a subforum at the event focusing on research and development, accessibility and affordability of COVID vaccines, Shao Yiming, chief expert at the Chinese Center for Disease Control and Prevention, said a barrier of immunity can be built only after a substantial proportion of people worldwide has been vaccinated. He added that global cooperation is urgent and a fair attitude toward vaccines in all countries is necessary. According to official data, China has provided more than  million doses of vaccines to the international community, including vaccine assistance to over  countries and vaccine exports to more than  nations. Liu Jingzhen, chairman of China National Pharmaceutical Group, or Sinopharm, said the group has the capacity to provide more than one billion COVID vaccine doses to the world beyond China in the second half of this year. Margaret Chan Fung Fuchun, president of the Global Health Forum and former directorgeneral of the WHO, said development and safety are expected for people around the global in the process of fighting the pandemic, adding that peoples lives and health are priorities amid public health emergencies. Chan said it is disrespectful to all humanity for some countries to hype the origins of the novel coronavirus. In the past  years, the world has seen a growing number of new diseases, with a majority of them derived from animals, including Ebola, SARS, MERS and bird flu, Chan said. She said the whole world is interested in the origin of the conoravirus, noting that the WHO had sent a team of experts to Wuhan in March, Hubei province, to carry out a detailed investigation and issued a report. I participated in the news conference on the investigation and listened carefully to opinions from experts, Chan said, adding that she agreed with the conclusions. Hosted by the Boao Forum for Asia and the Shandong Provincial Peoples Government, the nd Conference of Global Health Forum was held both online and offline. It included an opening ceremony, two general meetings,  subforums and  key activities. Xinhua contributed to this story.