Global corporate tax deal in sight as G meets
2021-06-05 02:36
US Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen and Germanys Finance Minister Olaf Scholz pose together at a meeting of finance ministers from across the G nations ahead of the G leaders summit, at Lancaster House in London, Britain June , . PhotoAgencies    LONDON  Finance ministers from wealthy G nations on Friday moved towards supporting USbacked plans for a minimum global level of corporate tax aimed at getting multinationals  especially tech giants  to pay more into government coffers hit hard by the pandemic. British finance minister Rishi Sunak on Friday chaired the first of two days of meetings  held in person after an easing of Covid restrictions and attended by counterparts from Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan and the United States. The talks were preparing the ground for a broader summit of G leaders in Cornwall, southwest England starting on June , which will include US President Joe Biden on his first foreign tour since taking office in January. Momentum is building for a minimum level of corporate tax to prevent multinationals like tech giants from playing the system to boost profits. Corporate tax is one of two pillars in efforts for global fiscal reforms, the other being a digital tax to allow countries to tax the profits of multinationals headquartered overseas. It is increasingly clear that in a complex, global, digital economy, we cannot continue to rely on a tax system that was largely designed as in the s, Sunak said in opening remarks. And I would just say this The world has noticed. And I believe they have high expectations for what we all can agree over the coming days. Opportunities to make truly lasting reforms like this do not come very often, and I sincerely hope that we seize the moment. According to a draft communique seen by AFP, the finance chiefs and central bankers of the worlds seven richest nations will express strong support and a high level of ambition over a minimum global minimum corporate tax rate. They then hope to reach broader agreement at a G finance meeting scheduled for July. Ministers also plan to commit to sustain policy support, or stimulus, for as long as necessary to nurture economic recovery, while addressing climate change and inequalities in society, according to the document. Furthermore, they will urge equitable, safe and affordable access to Covid vaccines everywhere. The thorny topic of the regulation of digital currencies such as bitcoin will also be on the agenda. AFP