In hypocrisy, America reigns without a rival
2021-06-04 17:28
Human rights are universal, and all governments must protect and promote them. It is so absurd for the official Twitter account of US Secretary of State to utter these words, as the US government maintains an extremely bad record of human rights violations and abuses. In  alone there were many. Everybody must remember George Floyd and his last words I cant breathe. He is only one of the more than  African Americans killed by police in the US in , as shown by mappingpoliceviolence.org. The same source shows that US police took lives almost every day with only  exceptions. Now, with the year  entering its sixth month, US police have killed  people already. The same year saw the US government failing in its duty to protect people from the deadly COVID pandemic, which resulted in deaths that far exceed those of World War II. The latest data shows that the deaths in US reached ,. After vaccine production began, the US also purchased far more vaccines than needed even though people in Africa and many other countries face the same threat. They dont care about lives at all. On Jan , conflicts broke out between US protesters and US police, which led to at least five people being killed, over  policemen wounded, and more than  people arrested. The same US politicians who crushed rioters at home are happy to play up riots elsewhere in the world. When riots happened in the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region in , they called it A beautiful sight to behold, and they never want that beautiful sight to appear in their own home. ThesameUSpoliticiansplottedandsupportedthe ArabSpringthatleftmillionsofrefugeesintheMiddleEast,buttheyneverwanttheirhomelandtoexperiencesuchaspring. The fact is that US politicians do not care about democracy or human rights anywhere in this world. They even do not care about lives considering the large number of deaths caused by their negligent handling of the pandemic. All they want, by uttering these beautiful words, is to incite a color revolution in countries that they dont like. The photo of the political unit chief of the US Consulate General to Hong Kong Julie Eadeh meeting Hong Kong riot leaders during the riots is best evidence of their plot. It was in the s that the US citizen Frederick Douglass famously said For revolting barbarity and shameless hypocrisy, America reigns without a rival. One and a half centuries have passed since then. Please do not let that quote continue to apply.