UK pushing US to relax travel ban
2021-06-04 09:31
An aircraft takes off at Heathrow Airport amid the spread of the coronavirus disease COVID pandemic in London on Feb , . PhotoAgencies    London wants Washington to relax a prohibition on nonUS citizens traveling directly into the country from the United Kingdom. The ban is aimed at limiting the spread of the novel coronavirus in the United States and, more recently, at reducing the possibility of importing a variant that was first identified in India that is spreading quickly in the UK. British ministers are reportedly so frustrated with the ban that Prime Minister Boris Johnson is considering talking about it personally with President Joe Biden. The Financial Times said ministers are not, however, confident about an imminent end to the prohibition that has been in place since March . One unnamed British official told the paper The best we are likely to get is something tied to July  a day on which the US celebrates its independence and on which Biden has said it will also mark our independence from this virus. The US travel ban was imposed by thenpresident Donald Trump in early  and was aimed at preventing nonUS citizens entering the country from China, Iran, Brazil, the Schengen travel zone of Europe, or the UK. Biden has since added India to the list of restricted nations and areas. Johnson and Biden are slated to next speak in around a week, ahead of a G climate summit in Cornwall, England, and the prime minister is likely to say the UKs effective vaccination program, alongside reliable testing and low rates of infection and death, make the ban unnecessary. Ironically, several nations have been lobbying for a similar relaxation of the UKs prohibitions on travel to other nations, which was reviewed on Thursday. The UK has categorized other countries and areas into either a green list, an amber listing, or a red one, according to the level of virusrelated risk associated with traveling there. The Labour Party, which is currently the official opposition in the UK, said on Thursday the socalled traffic light system is not fit for purpose. Labour said it would like to see the amber list scrapped completely because of the huge confusion it is creating and the huge number of travelers coming through our airports. Nick ThomasSymonds, the partys shadow home secretary, said on Radio s Today program he would like to see a small green list and amberlist nations added to the red list. He also called for a comprehensive hotel quarantine system. Ahead of a meeting of his Cabinet on Thursday to discuss the latest changes to the listings, Johnson said the government would follow the advice of its Joint Biosecurity Centre. Weve got to be cautious and weve got to continue to put countries on the red list, on the amber list, when that is necessary, the BBC quoted him as saying. I want you to know we will have no hesitation in moving countries from the green list to the amber list, to the red list, if we have to do so. The priority is to continue the vaccine rollout to protect the people of this country.