US to give  mln vaccine doses to priority nations,  via COVAX
2021-06-04 02:25
FILE PHOTO U.S. President Joe Biden delivers remarks on his administrations coronavirus disease COVID response, as Vice President Kamala Harris stands by in the Eisenhower Executive Office Buildings South Court Auditorium at the White House in Washington, US, June , . PhotoAgencies    WASHINGTON  President Joe Biden outlined his plan Thursday for the first of  million coronavirus vaccine doses that the US will distribute globally, with  percent of shots disbursed via the Covax program. In a fact sheet the White House said that for the doses shared through Covax, Washington would prioritize countries in Latin America and the Caribbean, South and Southeast Asia, and Africa as it aims to help stave off fresh surges of infections. We are sharing these doses not to secure favors or extract concessions, Biden said in a statement. We are sharing these vaccines to save lives and to lead the world in bringing an end to the pandemic, with the power of our example and with our values. Biden earlier pledged to export  million Covid vaccine doses to countries around the world by the end of this month. The commitment came amid pressure from other governments to use the United States large vaccine surplus to help struggling nations now that significant progress has been made in rolling out vaccinations at home. The process to export the first  million is underway, White House Covid response coordinator Jeff Zients told reporters. We will deliver on the presidents commitment of  million doses by the end of June. He said the first tranche is coming from the federal supply of doses and will be comprised of a combination of the three vaccines with current US emergency use authorization Johnson and Johnson, Moderna, and PfizerBioNTech. A vaccine created by AstraZeneca has yet to earn US authorization. Covax is an international scheme cofounded by the World Health Organization WHO that intends to get enough vaccines for  percent of the population in  of the poorest participating territories   percent in India  with donors covering the cost. AFP