UAE ambassador to China looks forward to greater collaboration between the two nations
2021-06-02 21:00
AliObaidAlDhaheri, ambassador of the United Arab Emirates to China. Photo provided to chinaidaily.com.cn    The breadth and depth bilateral of collaborations between the United Arab Emirates and China in science and technology have been rising over the years and there is great potential to expand this relationship even further, UAE ambassador to China Ali Obaid Al Dhaheri told China Daily in an exclusive interview on Wednesday in Shanghai. Dhaheri pointed out that some of the fields in which the UAE is looking to further collaborations with China include renewable energy, biosafety, food security, life sciences and medicine, aerospace, and advanced manufacturing. China is becoming a leader in the science and technology fields. It has a strong manufacturing ability and abundant innovation resources, as well as a huge domestic market for technology commercialization, he said. Chinas success in responding to the COVID outbreak and its speed of vaccine research and development have also played a demonstrative role for other countries. All of these make China attractive to global partners, including the UAE. The UAE has long been committed to energy transition and is currently focused on developing its hydrogen energy industry, said Dhaheri. Renewable energy will account for around  percent of the countrys total electricity generation by , according to UAE National Industrial Strategy. He also noted that the rapid development of technology in China has produced tangible outcomes, and he is most fascinated by Chinas AI technology in terms of autonomous driving, robotics, AI vision technologies, and AI speech technologies. The UAE is also committed to developing AI technology and has made substantial efforts to do so. We released the worlds first national strategy on AI in , and we built the worlds first university dedicated to teaching AI at the Mohammed Bin Zayed University for AI, said Dhaheri, adding that the institute has hired many Chinese AI scholars as teachers and for key management positions. The two nations have cooperated in various fields with science and technology being a key focus since they established diplomatic relations in . For example, Chinese tech giant Huawei has since  been involved in constructing the communications system for the UAE Federal Railways. Two years ago, the UAE and Huawei signed a cooperation agreement on G construction. In May, the two sides signed a Memorandum of Understanding to expand and deepen their cooperation. In the healthcare sector, Chinas Sinopharm Group and the UAEs G Group cooperated in the clinical trials of COVID vaccines last year. Were able to produce the Chinese vaccines in the UAE and the production will reach up to  million doses a year. This is not only for the UAE or China. Instead, this will be an effort to support many parts of the world to fight against the COVID pandemic, said Dhaheri. He added that the UAE and China can also work together to tackle global challenges, such as climate change, desertification, environmental deterioration and the pandemic. Jin Xinyi contributed to this story.