World Bank chief says its vital to speed up vaccine supply chain
2021-06-02 03:30
PhotoAgencies    WASHINGTON  World Bank Group President David Malpass said Tuesday that its vital to speed up the supply chain of vaccines globally, urging countries to shorten the time from the manufacturing of the vaccine to shots in arms. My immediate priority is for countries that have sufficient supply to quickly release doses to countries that have vaccination deployment programs, Malpass said at a joint press conference with the heads of the World Health Organization WHO, the World Trade Organization WTO, and the International Monetary Fund IMF. The World Bank chief noted that the multilateral lender has  billion U.S. dollars in vaccine financing available, and more if needed to help countries buy and distribute COVID vaccines and encourage vaccinations. By the end of June, he said, the World Bank will have approved vaccination operations in over  countries, adding that these countries can immediately use vaccines from COVAX, the WHOled international campaign for equitable distribution of COVID vaccines around the world, from manufacturers, and from donor countries themselves as soon as they are made available. Its vital that we speed up the supply chain. We need to shorten the time from the manufacturing of the vaccine to shots in arms, Malpass said. At present, too many doses are waiting to be allocated, he said. They may be stuck in paperwork sitting in inventory somewhere or arent the type of vaccine the country is able to use. In order to maximize the number of vaccinations, doses need to be matched to country programs as soon as they are manufactured, said the World Bank chief, adding that its important to share information about the allocations so countries can plan ahead. In response to a question from Xinhua, WTO DirectorGeneral Ngozi OkonjoIweala highlighted four major bottlenecks in global vaccine production and supply constraint on manufacturing capacity, raw materials supplies, specialized skills in vaccine production, and bureaucracy in some countries. The world normally has capacity to manufacture about  billion doses of vaccines, but now we need  to  billion doses depending on whether we need boosters. So this is two to three times the capacity, the WTO chief said at the joint press conference. According to IMF estimation, a faster vaccination rollout could inject the equivalent of  trillion dollars into the global economy by , due to a faster resumption of economic activity. And it is important to recognize that  percent of the benefits, this  percent of this  trillion would go to emerging markets in developing countries, but  percent will go to advanced economies, said IMF Managing Director Kristalina Georgieva. So we mobilize everybody to step forward for the benefit of all, Georgieva added.