China injects confidence, impetus to global COVID response
2021-11-04 19:17
Cargos containing Sinovac vaccines are seen in Pasay City, the Philippines on Oct , . China donated another batch of Sinovac CoronaVac vaccines to the Philippines on Sunday to support the countrys COVID vaccination campaign. The donation arrived in Manila along with the vaccines of the same brand that the Philippines purchased from China. PhotoXinhua    BEIJING  With its efforts to advance the building of a global community of health for all, including information sharing, experience exchanges, antivirus material supplies and aiding developing countries with vaccines since the outbreak of the COVID pandemic, China has injected confidence and impetus into the global response of the virus. During the th Group of  G Leaders Summit on Saturday, China proposed a sixpoint Global Vaccine Cooperation Action Initiative. The initiative includes efforts to strengthen vaccine RD cooperation, uphold equity and justice and provide more vaccines to developing countries, encourage vaccine companies to transfer technology to developing countries, ensure smooth trade in vaccines and related raw and auxiliary materials, advance mutual recognition of vaccines in accordance with the World Health Organizations Emergency Use Listing, and provide financial support for global vaccine cooperation, especially for developing countries to access vaccines. Since the outbreak of COVID, the Chinese leadership has on many occasions stressed the importance of global inclusiveness and solidarity amid the pandemic. The pandemic is yet another reminder that humanity rises and falls together with a shared future. Facing the virus, China has called on the world to champion the vision of building a global community of health for all and tide over this trying time through solidarity and cooperation. For that reason, China has not only been effective at containing the pandemic at home but also at reaching out to provide help for others with a belief that regards all of the worlds people as one big family. China has been active in responding to and supporting the United Nations UN COVID Global Humanitarian Response Plan. To date, the country has offered material aid for combating the pandemic to over  countries and international organizations, exported antivirus supplies to over  countries and regions, provided over  billion masks, . billion units of protective gear and . billion testing kits abroad. It has also been earnest in honoring its commitment to make COVID vaccines a global public good and improve accessibility and affordability in developing countries. By providing over . billion doses of vaccines to more than  countries and international organizations around the world, China has made an important contribution to global vaccination and the building of a global immunity barrier. In May, UN SecretaryGeneral Antonio Guterres expressed thanks to China for its important contributions to the international cooperation in fighting the COVID pandemic, especially in achieving a fair distribution of COVID vaccines in developing countries. While the materials are being transported across the borders, the friendship and bond, as well as the confidence to overcome the disease, are enhanced.