Indias COVID tally crosses m as daily cases fall
2021-05-31 16:47
A woman receives a dose of COVISHIELD, a coronavirus disease COVID vaccine manufactured by Serum Institute of India, at a drivein vaccination kiosk in Ahmedabad, India, on May , . PhotoAgencies    NEW DELHI  Indias COVID tally surpassed the million mark on Monday, reaching ,, with , new cases reported in the past  hours, the health ministry said. The daily spike of new cases has been falling over the past couple of weeks. The cases registered in a day have fallen to the lowest level in the past  days. The daily cases breached the ,mark on April . Besides, as many as , deaths were reported since Sunday morning, taking the overall death toll to ,. There are still ,, active cases in the country, as there was a decrease of , cases in the past  hours. The number of daily active cases has been on the decline over the past few days after a continuous surge since midApril. A total of ,, people has been cured and discharged from hospitals so far across the country, showed the latest data from the health ministry. In January the number of daily cases in India had come down to below,. As many as , new cases were reported on Jan , which was the lowest in the previous  days. Prior to that the lowest number of daily new cases were , registered on June , . So far over  million vaccination doses ,, have been administered to the people across the country since India kicked off a nationwide vaccination drive on Jan. . A total of ,, vaccine doses were given on Sunday alone. The third phase of COVID vaccination is covering all people aged  years and above, although an acute shortage of vaccines is being felt across the country. Meanwhile, the Indian government has ramped up COVID testing facilities as over  million tests have been conducted so far. As many as ,, tests were conducted till Sunday, out of which ,, tests were conducted on Sunday alone, said the latest data issued by the Indian Council of Medical Research ICMR on Monday. Three types of vaccines are being administered to the people in India. While the Covishield vaccine, made by the Serum Institute of India, was supplied to all states, the Covaxin vaccine, made by the Bharat Biotech International Limited, was supplied to only  states. Besides, the Russiamade vaccine SputnikV is also being administered.