S. Africa to implement stricter COVID regulations as cases spike
2021-05-31 09:39
A health worker holds a vial of the PfizerBioNTech coronavirus disease COVID vaccine, at the Munsieville Care for the Aged Centre outside Johannesburg, South Africa May , . PhotoAgencies    JOHANNESBURG  As coronavirus cases continued surging, South Africa would move to lockdown level two on Monday, President Cyril Ramaphosa said in a televised address on Sunday night. Cases have been increasing over the past four weeks, with an average of , daily new infections. The number of infections has begun to rise sharply in several parts of the country, Ramaphosa said, adding that the proportion of COVID tests that are positive has more than doubled in the last month from around  percent to more than  percent. Four provinces including the economic hub Gauteng have entered the third wave. The provinces of Free State, Northern Cape, North West and Gauteng have reached the threshold of a third wave of infections, he noted. It may only be a matter of time before the country as a whole will have entered a third wave. The president said the Cabinet has therefore decided that the country will be placed on Adjusted Alert Level  with effect starting Monday. Some of the strict measures to be reintroduced on Monday include the hours of curfew will start at  p.m. and end at  a.m. Nonessential establishments like restaurants, bars and fitness centers will need to close by  p.m. All gatherings will be limited to a maximum of  people indoors and  people outdoors. Ramaphosa said more than  percent of public health workers have been vaccinated Johnson  Johnson vaccine, which only requires a single dose while over , old people have received the first dose of the Pfizer vaccine as part of the public vaccination campaign. We have secured enough vaccines to reach all adults in the country, which is around  million people, he said. This includes  million doses of the Johnson  Johnson vaccine, which is a single dose manufactured locally as well as  million doses of the Pfizer vaccine. Right now, our foremost priority is to scale up our vaccination campaign to reach as many people as possible, as quickly as possible, in every part of our country, said Ramaphosa.