Hope amid challenges
2021-05-31 08:53
Airport staff members unload the first batch of Chinese Sinovac vaccine raw materials from a plane at the Cairo International Airport in Cairo, Egypt, May , . PhotoXinhua    A community with a shared future for mankind is an irreversible trend and a goal necessitating efforts from both countries Egypt was the first Arab country to establish diplomatic relations with the Peoples Republic of China. Since then, the two countries have been supporting each other politically, cooperating with each other economically and learning from each other culturally, with their bilateral relationship being regarded as a model for friendly and cooperative ChinaArab relations. Egypt was also the first Arab country to establish a st CenturyOriented Strategic Cooperative Relationship with China, which it did in . And, over the last decade, China and Egypt have advanced bilateral relations to a new stage of building a community with a shared future in the new era and lifted the ChinaEgypt Comprehensive Strategic Partnership to a new high as a pioneer for a ChinaArab community with a shared future. There have been increasing instability and uncertainties due to the concurrence of changes taking place in the world and the COVID pandemic, said President Xi Jinping at the opening ceremony for the Boao Forum for Asia Annual Conference  in late April. He added that we still have a long way to go to deliver universal security and development, since the deficit in governance, trust, development, and peace faced by human society is on the rise. President Xi also stated that multipolarity as a worldwide trend remains essentially unchanged and economic globalization has shown new resilience amid stronger calls for multilateralism as well as better communication and cooperation. While we live in an age rife with challenges, it is also an age full of hope. China, Egypt and other Arab countries, in light of unprecedented changes, are working together to build a ChinaArab community with a shared future and draw a blueprint for a bright future, so as to lead humanity toward peace, development and prosperity, which is in the fundamental interests of China, Egypt and all other Arab countries. A community with a shared future for mankind is a multidimensional concept. At the country level, all countries, big or small, strong or weak, and despite differences in political systems and religious beliefs, should be equal and respect each other. We must oppose bullying the small or the weak and reject color revolutions, hegemonism, ideological confrontation, unilateralism, zerosum games, and interference in internal affairs. We should respect the political system and development path independently chosen by countries, resolve frictions and differences between countries through political consultation, and oppose the abuse of sanctions, threat of force or even armed invasion in pursuit of selfish interests. Internationally, we must safeguard the international system with the United Nations at the core, the international order based on international law and the multilateral trading system centered around the World Trade Organization. All countries should have a seat at the table in international affairs and a say in the future of the world. Multilateralism should be upheld and rules formulated by one or several countries should not be imposed on others, nor should certain countries be allowed to pursue unilateralism at will. We need fairness and equity in this world, not hegemony. On the economic front, we should aim for equality, mutual benefit and winwin cooperation. As the only way to promote development and progress, openingup is also key to a postpandemic recovery. Major rich countries should sincerely help small and poor countries accelerate their development. Aid should be offered with no political strings attached and should never be used as an excuse for interference in a countrys internal affairs. Since openness and interconnectivity represent a general trend in the era of economic globalization, attempts to erect walls or decouple to the detriment of others but to the benefit of none run counter to the law of economics and market principles. The top priority for the international community now is to fight against the novel coronavirus outbreak, during which cooperation must be enhanced and political maneuvers must be rejected. Major countries should set an example by providing more public goods. It is necessary to strengthen public health security governance and jointly build a global community of health for all. China and the Arab countries have long been committed to SouthSouth cooperation. China always acts in the belief that it is its responsibility to help fellow developing countries. The Belt and Road Initiative has been well received by the international community, especially by developing countries. President Xi has emphasized on many occasions that the Belt and Road Initiative is a public road to help all progress hand in hand, not a private path owned by one single country. A community with a shared future for mankind is an irreversible trend, and it is also a goal necessitating longterm efforts. The ChinaArab community with a shared future cannot be achieved overnight. It is a goal for which China, Egypt and other Arab countries must make unremitting efforts for its early realization. The author was the Chinese ambassador to Egypt from  to .