Three asymptomatic cases belonging to three generations now stable
2021-05-30 13:27
A resident registers before allowed to leave the community at a residential community in Liwan district, Guangzhou, Guangdong province, May , . In some regions in Liwan district, all residents arerequired to stay at home and only one person per household is allowed to go out for daily necessity shopping every day.PhotoXinhua    Three asymptomatic carriers belonging to three generations, including a monthold girl, are now in stable condition in a hospital in Foshan city, located about  kilometers away from Guangzhou, capital of Guangdong province, according to a statement released by Foshan city government on Saturday. The first case surnamed Chen, , who has Guangzhou hukou, or household registration, was immediately put under quarantine for further medical observation when her acid nucleic testing result came out positive on early Friday morning. Chen, who lives in a housing estate in Foshans Nanhai district, was detected to be an asymptomatic carrier after undergoing second positive result of acid nucleic testing, further CT examination and group consultation of medical experts, the statement said. And acid nucleic testing for Chens son surnamed Liang, , and her granddaughter also came out positive when medical workers organized acid nucleic testing for Chens family members on Saturday. The three have now been sent to Foshan No Four Peoples Hospital for isolated observation and treatment, the statement said. Liang and his daughter were reportedly caught the virus through Chen. The three live together. Last week, another three people of three generations were also found to be two confirmed cases and an asymptomatic carrier in Liwan district of Guangzhou. The three include a yeaerold grandmother surnamed Song, her yearold daughterinlaw surnamed Lei and yearold grandson surnamed Xu. Song and Xu were confirmed to be COVID patients while Lei was asymptomatic carrier. All are now Guangzhou No. Eight Peoples Hospital, a designated hospital for COVID patients, for further medical observation and treatment. All are in stable condition. Huang Guanglie, director of Guangzhou City Health Commission, said the coronavirus that has recently been detected in Guangzhou and Foshan spreads fast and has strong transmission ability. To prevent and control the virus from spreading in the city, Guangzhou has tightened measures to fight against the virus, Huang said at a press conference in Guangzhou on Saturday. Guangzhous Liwan, Haizhu and Yuexiu districts have organized mass acid nucleic testing for all their residents, and urged locals to be vaccinated against COVID.