Chinese mainland reports  new COVID cases, all imported
2021-05-30 10:50
A volunteer introduces the process of vaccination to a passenger at the temporary vaccination site in Shanghai Hongqiao Railway Station in Shanghai, May , . A temporary vaccination site was set at Shanghai Hongqiao Railway Station to provide free vaccination services for passengers. The vaccination site is equipped with four vaccination units and an independent observation area. It takes only about  minutes for a passenger to register and complete a single dose of vaccination excluding the observation time. PhotoXinhua    BEIJING  The Chinese mainland on Saturday reported  new COVID cases, all of which were imported, the National Health Commission said in its daily report on Sunday. Of the new cases, five were reported in Shanghai, two in Fujian and one each in Inner Mongolia, Guangdong, Sichuan and Shaanxi, according to the commission. No new suspected cases or new deaths related to COVID were reported Saturday, it said. A total of , imported cases had been reported on the mainland by the end of Saturday. Among them, , had been discharged from hospitals following recovery, and  remained hospitalized. No deaths had been reported among the imported cases. The total number of confirmed COVID cases on the mainland reached , by Saturday, including  patients still receiving treatment, four of whom were in severe condition. A total of , patients had been discharged from hospitals following recovery on the mainland, and , had died as a result of the virus. There were two suspected COVID cases on the mainland on Saturday. A total of  asymptomatic cases were newly reported,  of which were local cases reported in Guangdong. There were a total of  asymptomatic cases, of whom  were imported, under medical observation by Saturday. By the end of Saturday, , confirmed COVID cases, including  deaths, had been reported in the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region SAR, while  cases had been reported in the Macao SAR, and , cases, including  deaths, had been reported in Taiwan. A total of , COVID patients in the Hong Kong SAR had been discharged from hospitals following recovery, while  had been discharged in the Macao SAR, and , had been discharged in Taiwan.