UN chief Guterres urges global efforts to close vaccine gap
2021-05-29 10:18
UN SecretaryGeneral Antonio Guterres.Photo provided to chinadaily.com.cn    Multipronged efforts must be made across countries to realize a more concerted global and multilateral response to the COVID impact, United Nations SecretaryGeneral Antonio Guterres said on Saturday. He made the remarks when addressing the opening ceremony of the International Finance Forum  Spring Meetings via video on Saturday morning. The meeting was held in Beijing from Saturday to Sunday through both online and offline format. Prompt efforts must be made to actively close the global vaccine gap, he said. Guterres said countries must work together to produce and distribute sufficient vaccines for all, especially to reach lowincome countries falling behind in pandemic response. COVAX, the global vaccine equity mechanism, will help to achieve such goal, he added. He urged that stronger efforts must be rolled out in supporting developing countries facing debt crises pressure, and the international debt architecture must be strengthened. In the end, Guterres called on urgent action toward the goal of achieving net zero emissions by midcentury, including efforts from the Nationally Determined Contributions of governments to the decarbonization plans of businesses and financial actors. Developed countries must meet aid and climate finance commitments, including the  billion goal and new climate finance pledges for the period of  to , as it is essential for building trust and making the whole financial system lowcarbon and climateresilient, he said He called on donors, development finance institutions and multilateral development banks to align their portfolios with the Paris Agreement and ensure that at least  percent of climate finance is for adaptation and resilience and support shortterm actions for developing countries to finance the transition to renewable energy and climateresilient development. The International Finance Forum is an independent, nonprofit, nongovernmental international organization founded in Beijing in October , and established by more than  key international organizations, including the UN, and a significant number of financial institutions and leaders. The IFF is a longstanding, highlevel platform for dialogue and communications, and a research network in the financial realm.