Inoculations urgently needed in Malaysia
2021-05-29 09:18
A medical worker collects swab sample from a boy during coronavirus testing at a health center in Shah Alam, Malaysia, on Thursday.VINCENT THIANASSOCIATED PRESS    Soaring COVID cases are straining Malaysias public health system, making it imperative for the countrys authorities to speed up mass vaccinations, analysts said. The Southeast Asian country must step up efforts to secure more vaccines even as the world faces a shortage of jabs amid a spike in cases in some regions around the world, they said. Malaysia is the third worsthit country in Southeast Asia. The Health Ministry on Thursday reported , new infections, a new record that pushed the countrys total confirmed cases to ,. It was the third straight day in which new cases soared above ,. Total deaths have spiked to , as of Friday afternoon. Malaysias daily cases have been on the rise since April and accelerated after the Muslim Eid festival despite a onemonth lockdown that is to last until June . The surge, coupled with a rise in deaths, have strained the healthcare system. The recent surge of COVID cases is alarming for the whole nation, said Leow Chiuan Yee, senior lecturer at the School of Pharmaceutical Sciences in Universiti Sains Malaysia, or USM. With some of the countrys intensive care units, or ICUs, nearly full, Leow said it is getting more difficult for the healthcare system to treat the rapidly growing number of coronavirus patients. Leow is hoping new shipments from China and the COVID Vaccines Global Access Facility, or COVAX, will help Malaysias vaccination drive which had been constrained by tight global supplies. CoronaVac jabs A total of , doses of CoronaVac jabs from Chinas Sinovac Biotech and , AstraZeneca doses sourced from COVAX arrived in Kuala Lumpur on May . Noor Hisham Abdullah, Malaysias directorgeneral of health, said the nations health system is under huge stress and ICUs nationwide have reached  percent capacity. Some hospitals are converting other areas into temporary ICUs, he said, but noted such arrangements could hurt nonCOVID patients who need critical treatment. Finance Minister Tengku Zafrul Abdul Aziz said Malaysia will increase COVID healthcare spending by another  million. Malaysia planned to vaccinate  percent of its  million population by February  to bring about herd immunity. But the rollout has been slow, with only . million people having received at least one dose as of Friday. Agencies via Xinhua contributed to this story.