Africa needs m vaccine doses for  coverage by Sept
2021-05-28 17:20
A man receives the AstraZenecaOxford vaccine against the coronavirus disease COVID under the COVAX scheme, in Nairobi, Kenya, April , . PhotoAgencies    Africa requires  million doses of any World Health Organization emergency use listed COVID vaccine to inoculate  percent of its population by September, according to the World Health Organization. This is in addition to at least  million doses of the OxfordAstraZeneca vaccine needed in the next six weeks to enable the continent to give second shots to all those who received first doses. The WHO said a single dose of the OxfordAstraZeneca vaccine gives around  percent protection for at least  weeks, while a full course within that period gives  percent protection for an extended period. Speaking at a virtual news briefing on Thursday, Matshidiso Moeti, the WHO regional director for Africa, said the continent needs vaccines urgently and that any pause in its vaccination campaigns will lead to lost lives and lost hope. As supplies dry up, dosesharing is an urgent, critical and shortterm solution to ensuring that Africans at the greatest risk of COVID get the muchneeded protection, Moeti said. Its too soon to tell if Africa is on the cusp of a third wave. However, we know that cases are rising, and the clock is ticking so we urgently appeal to countries that have vaccinated their highrisk groups to speed up the dosesharing to fully protect the most vulnerable people. Moeti said the WHO is helping African countries to lay the groundwork to build up vaccine manufacturing capacity. She said more than  WHO member states, including  African countries, are cosponsoring a draft resolution that aims to strengthen local production, promote technology transfers and innovation as well as intellectual property waivers. To date, Africa has administered  million COVID doses, representing less than  doses administered per  people in the continent. Globally, . billion COVID vaccine doses have been administered.