Ohios vaccination effort pays off
2021-05-28 10:32
A man receives his coronavirus disease COVID vaccine at the Bradfield Community Center through Health Partners of Western Ohio in Lima, Ohio, US, March , . PhotoAgencies    An effort by Ohio to have hesitant residents get COVID vaccination shots is paying off. One person won the states first  million VaxaMillion vaccination prize, and a teenager won the first full college scholarship to any Ohio college. Abbey Bugenske was one of . million adults who signed up for the  million prize, which will take place on five consecutive Wednesdays. I was screaming enough that my parents thought that I was crying and that something was wrong, Bugenske, , said Thursday morning during a news conference. I started yelling that I won a million dollars and I was going to be a millionaire they told me to calm down and make sure it wasnt a prank before I really started freaking out. The state also announced that yearold Joseph Costello won the first full college scholarship. Costello was one of , children ages  to  who entered the drawing for the college scholarship  the prize for entrants under . Four more drawings for a milliondollar prize and college scholarships will take place each Monday in June. Were excited that this has inspired so many Ohioans to get vaccinated, said Governor Mike DeWine on Wednesday. He announced the competition, which is funded by federal COVID stimulus money, on May  as part of a nationwide effort to get people vaccinated. Five days after the vaccinationprize rollout, the Ohio Department of Health said the campaign had driven a  percent increase in the vaccination rate of those age  and older. There have been about  million coronavirus cases in Ohio. About  percent of the states residents, or . million people, had been vaccinated against COVID as of Thursday, according to the Ohio Department of Health. California which has seen its vaccination rate decline, upped the ante on Thursday with its Vax for the Win program, state officials announced. Its our biggest thank you yet to Californians who have received their COVID vaccine. Ten winners will be selected on June  to receive . million each  prizes totaling  million! All Californians who have had at least one COVID dose will automatically be entered, the initiatives website says. The program, which also includes , Fridays for  winners  each day over two Fridays in June, will cost . million, the Los Angeles Times reported. Starting on May , the first  million people in Californians to start and finish their COVID vaccinations will receive a  virtual card for online purchases or one to be used at grocery stores. On Wednesday, New York Governor Andrew Cuomo announced that residents ages  to  who get vaccinated can enter to win one of  full college scholarships, including books and room and board, to any state university of New York or City University of New York. Colorado, Maryland and Oregon have held incentives to boost waning vaccinations. New Jersey and Connecticut are offering free beers to adults who get their shots, and West Virginia is offering a  state savings bond. Nearly  million people  about half of US adults  have received at least one shot and nearly  million people   percent of the population  are fully vaccinated, according to data published Thursday by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention CDC. Thats about . million more doses reported administered since Wednesday, for a sevenday average of about . million doses per day, the lowest sevenday average in about three months ago, since the end of February, according to CNN.