Support for multilateralism defines Chinas UN contribution
2021-05-28 06:08
Chinese peacekeepers march during a medal ceremony in Hanniyah village, southern Lebanon, April , . PhotoXinhua    On the evening of July , , a mortar shell hit an armored vehicle amid a fierce exchange of fire between government and opposition forces in Juba, the capital cityof South Sudan. Inside the vehicle were two Chinese peacekeepers on duty to protect some , civilians in downtown Juba and surrounding villages. Li Lei, a young soldier who had just celebrated his nd birthday, was killed alongside Sergeant Yang Shupeng, father of a yearold , miles away from home. The twowere awarded the United Nations Dag Hammarskjld medal for their sacrifice. United Nations peacekeeping is a concrete example of multilateralism at work. ... It has enabled the countries of the world to meet common threats to peace and security and share the burden under the UN flag, wrote SecretaryGeneral Antnio Guterres. For more than three decades, China has shown great commitment to this endeavor. The secondlargest contributor to the UN regular budget and peacekeeping budget, it has dispatched over , peacekeepers to nearly operations, more than any other permanent member of the Security Council. Throughout the years, Chinese peacekeepers have made the ultimate sacrifice. Chinas commitment to peacekeeping is rooted in its faith in multilateralism. Advocating multilateralismhas been the top item on Chinasagenda during its current May  and previous November  rotating presidency of the Security Council. The clear message from China is to upholdthe UNcentered international system and the international order underpinned by international law, not the rulesbased international order advocated by a small number of countries.Thatis the very theme of the first highlevel Security Council meeting China chaired this month. Whatexactly ismultilateralismabout? State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yis remarks at thismeeting hold vital clues. The first component is winwin cooperation, as opposed to zerosum games. Complex global issues and common challenges call for collective response. Infighting COVID, no country should expect others to losethis battle, for no one truly wins until everyone wins. Second, equity and justice, not bullying or hegemony. The key is promoting democracy and the rule of law in international relations. Responsibilities of global governance are to be shared, and rules are to be written by and applicable to all, not just a few. Third, action rather than rhetoric. Multilateralism means taking action and finding solutions that work for the long run and the greater good. Major countries, in particular, must lead by example and provide concrete global public goods. Fourth, diversity instead of seeking ones own supremacy. The strength of multilateralism lies in the fact that while peace, development, equity, justice, democracy and freedom are values shared by humanity, each country is unique in its history, culture and path of development. The world thrives on such diversity, and the last thing it needs is to be split up along ideological lines. Much like its record at the Security Council, Chinas contribution to UN causes over the years can be characterized by support for multilateralism. Member of nearly all major intergovernmental organizations and signatory to more than  international conventions, Chinahas faithfully fulfilled its obligations and honored its commitments. Chinahas remained ever engaged as humanity fights on againstCOVID.It hasannounced generous donations to the World Health Organization and the UNinitiated Global Humanitarian Response Plan as well as concrete steps to support the COVID Vaccines Global Access COVAX. It has provided vaccine assistance to more than  developing countries and exports to . Itwas gratifying to hear about a ,dose donation to peacekeepersand , to Palestine earlier this year, knowing that the ones working for justice are not forgotten. When it comes to the number one goal laid out in the UNs  Agenda for Sustainable Development, namely endingpoverty, it is no overstatement that China has led by example. The eradication ofextreme poverty in a country where onefifth of humanity resides has contributed over  percent to global poverty reduction. In addition, China has done what it can to assist other members of the global South in fighting povertyand advancing development. Under the United Nations Peace and Development Trust Fund, the SouthSouth Cooperation Assistance Fund and theChinaFAO SouthSouth Cooperation Trust Fund, China has pledged over  billion to bolster world development. China has been a prominentpart of global action on climate change and ecological conservation. Indeed, China played a key role in facilitating the Paris Agreement, wrote Laurent Fabius, former French foreign minister and president of COP. Chinasgoal of peaking carbon dioxide emissions before  and achieving carbon neutrality before marks a major step in implementing the agreement. The ambitious commitment to a year transition to net zero speaks volumes about Chinas high sense of responsibility. As China hosts COP to the Convention on Biological Diversity this October, it is expected to play a more active role in the post global biodiversity framework. In recent years, multilateralism has won more hearts as the world goes through complexities rarely seen before. Multilateralism needs to be realized through the UN, through international law and through cooperation amongall parties. China, in both words and deeds, has been itschampion. Last month, China launched the first in a series of commemorative activities to mark the th anniversary of the restoration of the Peoples Republic of Chinas lawful seat at the UN. It initiated theGroup of Friends on the Safety and Security of UN Peacekeepers in New York andheldan online meeting with the UN toexchangepeacekeeping experience. This month, as rotating president of the Security Council, China chaired an open debate dedicated tothe safety and security of peacekeepers. While we grieve the loss ofLi Lei and Yang Shupeng, it is encouraging to see their brothers and sisters across the country and beyond pickingup the baton. The International Day of UN Peacekeepersthis Saturday reminds us once again that for the peace and security of humanity, peacekeeping is a most worthy cause. Yi Fan is a current affairs commentator based in Beijing.