California to offer M in coronavirus vaccine prize money
2021-05-28 05:45
FILE PHOTO California Governor Gavin Newsom speaks at the opening of the countrys first federal and state operated community vaccination site during the outbreak of the coronavirus disease COVID in Los Angeles, California, US, February , . PhotoAgencies    LOS ANGELES  Californians will be eligible for . million in prize money for getting coronavirus shots, Gov. Gavin Newsom announced Thursday, a windfall aimed at getting millions more vaccinated before the nations most populous state fully reopens next month. California isnt the first state to offer vaccine prizes, though its pot of money is the largest, and so is the most valuable single prize . million. The states reopening is pegged for June , and on that day a drawing will be held to award  vaccinated people the top prize. Another  people will win , each, with those drawings starting June . Anyone  and older who has received at least one shot will be eligible. And the next  million people who get vaccinated will get  gift cards. The state estimates about  million Californians  and older have not been vaccinated. About  of the  million eligible have gotten shots, though the pace has slowed markedly in recent weeks as infection rates have plummeted to record lows. Ohio this week announced the first  million winner of its VaxaMillion contest, as well as the first child to win a full college scholarship. Colorado and Oregon also offered  million prizes. New York is raffling  full scholarships to children  to  to public universities and colleges in the state, selecting  winners each of the next five Wednesdays. That California is turning to cash prizes to encourage vaccinations marks a major turnaround from earlier this year, when Californians clamored for shots, with some driving or waiting in line for hours to get one. Some Californians werent ready to get their COVID vaccine on Day One, and thats OK. This program is designed to encourage those who need extra support to get vaccinated and help keep California safe, Dr. Toms J. Aragn, director of the states department of public health, said in a statement. Newsoms office said the program would be aimed at reaching people in communities hardest hit by the pandemic  mainly the poor, Blacks and Latinos  though it wasnt immediately clear how the money would be tailored to fit that goal. California uses a vaccine equity metric to track vaccination progress that splits zip codes into four quartiles from least to most advantaged. Nearly half of people in the least advantaged neighborhoods still havent been vaccinated, according to the state. By contrast, less than a quarter of people in the most advantaged areas havent been vaccinated. Among all Latinos,  are not yet vaccinated. Thats the highest percentage of any racial or ethnic group. Forty of white Californians are not vaccinated, according to state figures. Agencies via Xinhua