Ministry ensures vaccines transported smoothly
2021-05-27 20:08
Workers transport boxes of vaccines against the COVID developed by Beijing Institute of Biological Products under Sinopharms China National Biotec Group CNBG, from a truck to a cold storage facility of Guangdong Center for Disease Control and Prevention, in Guangzhou, Guangdong province, on April , . PhotoAgencies    China is capable of transporting sufficient doses of COVID vaccines smoothly, the Ministry of Transport said on Thursday. With an increasing number of people having received vaccines across China, it puts more pressure on transporting vaccines. The resurgence of scattered cases has lead to more people wanting to get vaccinated, said Sun Wenjian, a spokesman for the ministry. According to the National Health Commission, as of Tuesday, more than . million doses of COVID vaccines had been administered across China. To ensure the smooth transportation of vaccine doses, the ministry released a list of  logistics companies as the main carriers to ship the vaccines. The ministry investigated the transportation capacity and has promoted cooperation between enterprises dealing with vaccine production and transportation. He added that top  logistics companies for transporting medicines have nearly , vehicles with frozen storage equipment, and about , frozen storage boxes, which meet the countrys needs in transporting vaccines. The ministry  along with the police, the health commission, civil aviation and medical regulatory bodies, and railway operators  arranges the trips accordingly, including coordination between vaccine producers and logistics suppliers, monitoring transportation on the way and preventing risks. The ministry has provided free shipping for vaccinemakers and  provinciallevel centers for disease control, shipping over . million doses of vaccine for free. A hour hotline has been set up to handle issues related to vaccine transportation, and a total of  related cases have dealt with so far, the ministry said. A guideline on the transportation of vaccine doses by road was issued in January, which set outs standardized procedures to ensure their fast and safe transportation. According to the guideline, close coordination is required throughout the entire transportation process, including placing orders and inspecting cargo. Transport and customs departments have to ensure they prioritize vaccine transportation. Drivers and inspectors on board are required to carry out inspections before loading. It is forbidden to open the cargo on the journey without any justifiable reason. Two drivers are required for journeys of more than  kilometers. Two sets of equipment to test and record temperatures are also mandatory on board. The vaccines should be transported at a temperature of  to  C. Sun said China will continue to improve cooperation between departments and enhance arrangements accordingly to ensure the safe and fast transportation of vaccine doses.