US once again aims low in countering China
2021-05-27 15:54
File photo shows the national flags of China R and the United States as well as the flag of Washington DC on the Constitution Avenue in Washington, capital of the United States. PhotoXinhua    On Tuesday, the US House of Representatives introduced an Ensuring American Global Leadership and Engagement Act, the socalled EAGLE Act. Unlike the ordinary ones that do not mention their imaginary adversarys name, the EAGLE Act clearly and unambiguously mentioned countering China as its main goal. Of all the means it listed to counter China, there is one that attracts the most attention, namely supporting Taiwan and prodemocracy activists in the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region. When the US claims supporting Taiwan they dont mean supporting the  million people there. They mean supporting the ruling Democratic Progressive Party, which pleases US politicians at the cost of Taiwan peoples interests and even lives. As the most recent example, even though Taiwan faces a new wave of the COVID pandemic because of new variants of the novel coronavirus, the DPP continues rejecting vaccines from the Chinese mainland for political reasons. On Tuesday, Ko Wenje, mayor of Taipei city, said that his whole city had only two vials of vaccines left, enough for  individuals only. But the ruling DPP put the Taiwan people in danger for their own political interests. And the prodemocracy activists in Hong Kong are nothing but laughingstocks. Nathan Law, a leading figure for them, called on his fellows to quit school as a protest while he himself fled to Yale for a new semester. Law also incited his fellows to use violence against the police, and when they were sent to jail, he fled to Yale, with the support of the US. Jimmy Lai Cheeying, the founder and actual controller of Apple Daily, which encouraged riots every day during the darkest days in , had also tried to leave Hong Kong for safety when he realized ample evidence was being gathered to charge him with crimes. He is a friend to US politicians and he often lobbies the latter to take harsher measures against his homeland and home city. Joshua Wong Chifung, another student leader who played his fellow students against the police, was later found to have met with US consulate officials in a hotel. Wong must pay for inciting violence, and is now serving his terms in prison. By the way, Wong and Tai parted ways in June  after a dispute over donated money. No one knows how much comes from the US. Sometimes one wonders why US politicians can always, with such accuracy, find the worst individuals among those who hate their own motherland. The only reasonable explanation is that the politicians must be the same. Follow the author on Twitter zzxang