Wider vaccination helps China build immune barrier against coronavirus
2021-11-03 15:03
A resident gets a booster shot of the COVID vaccine at a community medical service center in Qingxiu district of Nanning, South Chinas Guangxi Zhuang autonomous region, Nov , . PhotoXinhua    BEIJING  China has been expanding vaccine inoculation, booster shots in particular, to combat COVID and build an immune barrier as the coronavirus continues to spread worldwide. A series of Chinese cities including Xian, Guangzhou and Beijing has launched a campaign to administer COVID booster shots for those aged  and above who had completed their full vaccination at least six months ago. Since Oct , the Xinfadi wholesale market in Beijing, which was previously hit by COVID, has launched booster dose vaccination for over , staff and more than , vendors. I finished my full vaccination in April, and now six months have passed, so I came for a booster dose, which is an assurance for me, said Duan Hongmei, a greengrocer at Xinfadi. In Beijings Daxing district, there are  temporary vaccination sites and  mobile vaccination vehicles, providing convenience for residents. By the afternoon of Oct , more than , people have been inoculated with booster shots in Daxing. Wang Huaqing, an expert with the Chinese Center for Disease Control and Prevention, said a booster shot following full vaccination is necessary, as the neutralizing antibodies in recipients are declining and the protective effect is weakening as time goes on. To strike a balance between economic development and efforts to combat the Delta variant, it is necessary to accelerate the pace of vaccination and build an immune barrier in the population. Over . billion people in China had completed their vaccination against COVID by the end of October, and more than . billion vaccine jabs had been administered, data from the National Health Commission showed. Experts say that China needs  percent or more of the population vaccinated in the country to build an immune barrier. A growing number of Chinese provinciallevel regions including Beijing, Hubei and Liaoning have expanded their COVID vaccination programs to cover children from the age of , rather than limiting vaccination to those aged  and above, as was previously the case. We used to consider children as a less vulnerable group in the face of COVID, but as the epidemic is still spreading, more children are found to be infected, Wang said. Infectious diseases are easy to spread in schools and kindergartens which are densely populated. Launching a vaccination program for children aged between  and  is an important part of building an immune barrier for the whole population as well as a key measure to curb the COVID, according to the Beijing vaccination organization and coordination working group. Many districts in Beijing started the COVID vaccination for children aged between  and  on Oct . The feeling is almost the same as the inoculation of other vaccines, said Liu Xinyu, a yearold student from the Anding township central primary school in Daxing district. Wang Yanying, a staff of the vaccination office in Daxing district, said they have organized teachers to follow up on the condition of children after the vaccination, and many vaccination sites have been equipped with pediatricians, medicines for children, ambulance, and a sound mechanism to deal with emergencies, in an endeavor to ensure the safety of children.