EU infrastructure for COVID certificate to be ready from June
2021-05-26 09:01
European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen speaks during a media conference at the end of the EU summit in Brussels, May , . PhotoAgencies    BRUSSELS  The infrastructure for a digital vaccination certificate allowing the free movement of people around the European Union EU will be ready from June , European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen said on Tuesday. Von der Leyen said after a special summit of the nation bloc in Brussels that member countries can connect to the system from midJune and they must prepare for it by ensuring their national health systems are fed with information. I think the certificate is a unique opportunity to showcase how the European Union contributes concretely to peoples daily lives. So we must all contribute to making it happen, she told a press conference. Von der Leyen said on Twitter earlier on Tuesday that half of EU adults will have received their first dose of the vaccine this week, as  million doses are delivered, and  million doses administered. We are on track to reach our goal to have enough doses being delivered to vaccinate  percent of the adult population in the European Union by the end of July. If we continue like this, we have confidence that we will be able to safely reopen our societies, she told journalists. Having discussed the steady progress during their twoday summit, EU leaders pledged to continue efforts to increase global vaccine production capacities in order to meet global needs. EU leaders agreed at the summit to donate at least  million doses of COVID vaccines to poorer countries by the end of the year, von der Leyen told the media following the meeting. She said that donations were desperately needed since the Serum Institute of India has halted all its exports to COVAX until the end of the year. COVAX aims to ensure equitable access to COVID shots for low and middleincome countries. She said vaccine producers BioNTechPfizer, Moderna and Johnson  Johnson have committed to deliver . billion doses of vaccines in  at nonprofit for lowincome countries and at low cost to middleincome countries. Additionally, the EU was looking to invest  billion euros to develop vaccine manufacturing in Africa.