Security Council backs China on supportof UN peacekeepers
2021-05-25 13:57
A UN peacekeeper stands as smoke rise in the southern Lebanese village of Khiam, near the border with Israel, Lebanon May , .PhotoAgencies    The United Nations Security Council on Monday adopted a presidential statement by China that aims to enhance the safety and security of UN peacekeepers by highlighting measures that would help them adapt to new challenges. The statement reflects a new consensus among council members to enhance peacekeeper safety. It was adopted during an open debate addressing the UN peacekeeping operations, held under Chinas initiative. Chinas Permanent Mission to the UN, which holds the member councils rotating presidency in May, said on Twitter after the meeting that China is grateful to the strong support of Council members. The presidents statement is another important document passed by the international organ on improving the safety and security of peacekeepers, after the Security Council adopted Resolution  last year, which also was proposed by China. Council members expressed deep concerns about the security risks faced by peacekeepers. They praised the secretarygeneral for making peacekeeper safety and security an important part of the Action for Peacekeeping initiative. They noted the establishment of the Group of Friends on the Safety and Security of United Nations Peacekeepers, the statement said. Delegates encouraged the vaccination of UN peacekeepers and welcomed assistance from member states in that regard. The Security Council also condemned in the strongest terms the killing of UN peacekeeping personnel. They called on all member states hosting peacekeeping operations to investigate and prosecute those responsible for the attacks. Through the statement, council members asked the secretarygeneral to submit an independent strategic review of the UN peacekeeping operations response to improvised explosive devices IEDs to the Security Council. The Security Council encouraged troop and policecontributing countries as well as field missions to use new technologies to ensure the safety of peacekeepers. They stressed the importance of enhancing information acquisition, situation awareness and medical support capabilities. The UN should strengthen its partnership with the African Union AU and other regional and subregional organizations, the statement said. It supported the AU in its continuing actions to ensure the safety and security of peacekeepers. It asked the secretarygeneral to include issues related to peacekeeper safety in the reports submitted to the Security Council. For more than  years, over , peacekeepers have died in the line of duty. This year,  peacekeepers have laid down their precious lives. While peacekeeping operations cannot be absolutely zero risk, we should try our level best to minimize security risks, said Zhang Jun, Chinas permanent representative to the UN, who chaired Mondays debate. Zhang suggested the strengthening of situation awareness, emergency response and the emergency rescue capabilities of peacekeeping operations. The UN should continue to scale up the risk assessments in light of the actual situation of each mission, incorporate it into all aspects of the decisionmaking and take effective measures, he said. The ambassador pointed to the importance of concentrating optimal resources on resolving the key issues facing peacekeepers, such as the COVID pandemic and IEDs. The COVID pandemic is a new challenge to safety and security, and China has called for early completion of vaccination for all peacekeepers, Zhang said. Zhang urged the international community to continue to identify and address new challenges to the safety and security of peacekeepers. While the world is changing, so are the risks faced by peacekeepers, the envoy said. He highlighted the need to keep up with the developments and stay ahead of risks as much as possible, which included incorporating safety precautions into all aspects of decisionmaking, training, equipment and management, and reducing casualties among peacekeepers through preventive action. China stands ready to continue to work with other council members, and the international community in contributing to the protection of our blue helmets, the envoy said. China has promoted the adoption of Security Council Resolution , the first resolution on the safety and security of peacekeepers, and its related president statement. China also has provided financial support to the Secretariat for formulating the action plan.