Confidence builder
2021-05-25 09:00
SONG CHENCHINA DAILY    Chinas development achievements are inseparable from the leadership of the Communist Party of China During my tenure as the Consul General of the Republic of Angola in Hong Kong from  to , I visited many places across China. I was impressed by the new looks and prosperity I witnessed and the warm friendship Chinese people showed to Africa and Angola. Angola and China established a strategic partnership in . Since the novel coronavirus outbreak, China has provided muchneeded assistance to Angola on many fronts. For instance, Luanda and some provinces have received donations of antipandemic materials from Chinese people in Angola Chinese enterprises have helped build quarantine hospitals and the Chinese government donated many batches of antipandemic materials and , doses of vaccines to Angola, and assisted with the construction of four Fire Eye laboratories, which have enabled thousands of locals to receive nucleic acid tests every day. China has also sent medical aid teams to Angola and the two countries have established pairup cooperation partnerships between hospitals. Thanks to the aid from China, Angola has acquired large amounts of pandemic control supplies, demonstrating the friendship between the two countries. China is no longer the country that suffered foreign invasion as it did prior to World War II or the impoverished country of half a century ago. It is now the worlds secondlargest economy and the living conditions of its . billion people have been greatly improved. The tremendous changes that have taken place in China mark huge progress for humanity and a great contribution to world peace and development. In terms of finance, China boasts more than  trillion in foreign exchange reserves, the worlds largest. In , it had  companies on the Fortune Global  list, surpassing the number of companies from the United States  for the first time. Regarding industry, over the past  years, China has been the worlds leading producer of steel, ships, automobiles, airconditioners, washing machines, mobile phones, refrigerators, furniture, coal and chemical fertilizer. It also leads in installed power generation capacity of renewable energy such as hydro, wind and solar power. In terms of agriculture, China is the worlds biggest producer of grain, meat, poultry and eggs. As for transport, Chinas railway network extends a total length of , kilometers, among which , km forms a highspeed rail network, more than the rest of the world combined. It also boasts . million km of roads, of which , km are expressways, the most in the world. The km Hong KongZhuhaiMacao Bridge is the longest sea bridge in the world. In telecommunications, China is home to . million base stations, among which . million provide G services, accounting for more than half of the global total. And its number of G base stations also tops the world. The recent May Day holiday witnessed  million people traveling around the country, a testament to the nations effective control of the COVID pandemic. Anyone who has been to China will have reached this conclusion The prosperity and growth of the country is inseparable from the strong leadership of the Communist Party of China. Why has this Party of more than  million members been able to lead China to success? First, the CPC puts the wellbeing of the people first. It is closely connected to the people and cares about their interests. Through concrete actions, it has built up prestige among the people and constantly taken in new strength to improve its governance and leadership capacity. Upholding the peopleoriented philosophy is the fundamental reason behind the CPCs success in leading the country to continuous development. Second, the CPC always delivers on its promises. China not only makes fiveyear plans, but also envisions the Chinese Dream of realizing national rejuvenation, and achieving their development goals. Through these plans and goals, the CPC is leading the country to carry out a series of major steps, internally and externally, such as developing the economy, cracking down on corruption, improving the environment, reducing poverty, deepening reform, and safeguarding world peace. It truly represents the interests of the general public and honors its promises. Third, since its founding  years ago, the CPC has attached great importance to drawing lessons from past experiences and making innovations based on traditions. In such a way, it has opened up a pathway that suits the countrys conditions, and serves the interests of the Chinese people. I have been to many places throughout China, and witnessed the happy lives of ordinary people with my own eyes. It is the Chinese people that have the final say on whether the countrys ruling party and system is good or not. According to the Edelman Trust Barometer survey,  percent of Chinese people have trust in their government, beating the rates in other countries. It is fair to say that Chinas development presents an opportunity for the world, rather than a threat. The author is the former consul general of the Republic of Angola in Hong Kong. The author contributed this article to China Watch, a think tank powered by China Daily. The views do not necessarily reflect those of China Daily.