US Congress OKs cruises to Alaska
2021-05-25 02:35
The cruise ship the Norwegian Jewel sits near dozens of container ships off the coast of Long Beach, California, Feb , . PhotoAgencies    It took a vote by the US Congress and it still needs President Joe Bidens signature and approval from a federal health agency, but Carnival Cruise Lines is planning to resume sailing to Alaska in July, in what would be among the first voyages by cruise ships out of the US since the start of the COVID pandemic. Carnival Corp announced last week that its three cruise lines  Princess Cruises, Holland America Line and Carnival Cruise Line  will begin sevenday excursions  from Seattle to Alaska  in July. Other major cruise lines havent said what their plans are for Alaska, though Norwegian Cruise Line recently started selling voyages for this summer again, according to The Associated Press. The announcement by Carnival comes as the cruise industry attempts a restart in the United States after shutting down in the early days of the coronavirus pandemic in March . Last week, the House of Representatives and the Senate passed the Alaska Tourism Recovery and sent it to Biden, who is expected to sign it. The bill that would let cruise ships sail directly from Washington state to Alaska, temporarily waiving a part of maritime law prohibiting foreignflagged vessels from transporting passengers between two US ports without stopping in another country. With Canada forbidding any cruise operations through next February, the law threatened to eliminate Alaskan voyages on large ships this year. In , Alaska got about  percent of its summer tourists from cruise ships, according to the state tourism association. After missing the  season due to COVID travel restrictions, Alaskans across the state have been feeling fear, anxiety, and uncertainty over whether or not their jobs  their livelihoods  could survive another cancelled cruise ship season, Alaska Republican Senator Lisa Murkowski said in a statement. For many, the advice was just to get through to , but for the delegation, that was simply not acceptable. This legislation is literally a lifeline for so many of Alaskas small businesses that were struggling, and it means jobs for more Alaskans this summer, said Sarah Leonard, president of the Alaska Travel Industry Association, in a statement. The Alaska plans still need approval from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention CDC. We are optimistic that we will be able to conclude our ongoing discussions with the CDC, said Roger Frizzell, chief communications officer for Carnival, in a statement. Last month, the CDC said cruise ship operators could resume sailing out of the US by midJuly. Carnival is also working to lock in plans to sail ships from Miami and Galveston, Texas, in July. The company said on April  that its Princess Cruises, Holland America Line and Carnival Cruise Line plan to return to service with Alaska itineraries out of Seattle this summer. The company said each brand is planning to have one ship sailing roundtrip this season. The cruises are available to guests who have had their final dose of an approved vaccine at least  days before the cruise begins and proof of vaccination. Crew vaccinations will be in accordance with CDC guidelines, Carnival said. In October , the CDC put in place a conditional sail order that required cruise operators to conduct test cruises and apply for a certificate at least  days before offering passenger cruises. The cruise industry and its stakeholders had been critical of the CDCs approach to cruises, particularly after the agency lifted broader travel restrictions. The industry accused the CDC of treating it differently than other hospitality sectors, and the state of Florida has sued the agency.