Canada to allow  more airports to accept intl passenger flights
2021-11-03 09:34
A man pushes a baggage cart wearing a mandatory face mask as a Healthy Airport initiative is launched for travel, taking into account social distancing protocols to slow the spread of the coronavirus disease COVID at Toronto Pearson International Airport in Toronto, Ontario, Canada, on June , . PhotoAgencies    OTTAWA  Canada will allow more airports to accept international passenger flights at the end of November, Canadas Transport Ministry said on Tuesday. The Canadian governments strict vaccine travel requirements that will be fully phased in by Nov , and the issuing of a panCanadian proof of vaccination passport, have created opportunities for safe travel, said the ministry in a press release. It said the next step in easing travel restrictions against COVID is to expand the number of Canadian airports that can accept international passengers. As of Nov , international passenger flights can land at eight more Canadian airports, which are Hamilton, Waterloo, St. Johns, Regina, Saskatoon, Kelowna, Abbotsford and Victoria. These airports, in cooperation with the Public Health Agency of Canada, the Canada Border Services Agency and Transport Canada, are working to implement the measures necessary to start safely welcoming international passengers as of November , said the ministry in the news release. The eight airports are in addition to the  Canadian airports currently accepting international flights in Toronto, Ottawa, Montreal, Vancouver, Quebec City, Edmonton, Calgary and Halifax. Increased vaccination levels have allowed us to safely reopen these additional Canadian airports to international passenger flights, Minister of Transport Omar Alghabra said a press briefing on Tuesday. This measure will help ensure that travelers are able to access more regional airports for their international travels this winter while continuing to support the Government of Canadas measured approach to reopening our border, Alghabra said. However, the Transport Ministry also stated that additional airports will be considered as conditions dictate, based on demand, operational capacity, the epidemiological situation in Canada, and recommendations from the Public Health Agency of Canada. It added that border restrictions and public health measures remain subject to change depending on the COVID situation in Canada. Last month, Canada reopened its borders to international travelers who have completed both doses of a Health Canadaapproved COVID vaccine injection. On Tuesday, Canada reported , new cases of COVID, bringing the cumulative total to ,, cases, including , deaths, according to CTV.