UN calls for full adherence to ceasefire
2021-05-24 09:09
In a devastated neighborhood of Gaza City, joy is expressed by Palestinians on Saturday following a ceasefire that took effect the previous day.ASHRAF AMRAGETTY IMAGES    The United Nations Security Council has called for full adherence to the ceasefire in its first media statement on the PalestinianIsraeli conflict since violence broke out between the two sides on May . The statement welcomed the announcement of the ceasefire, which began on Friday. It recognized the important role Egypt, other regional countries, the UN, the Middle East Quartet and other international partners played in this regard. The Security Council mourned the deaths of civilians and stressed the immediate need for humanitarian assistance to the Palestinian civilian population, particularly in Gaza, the Security Council said. It backed the UN secretarygenerals call for the world to work with the UN to develop an integrated, robust package of support for a swift, sustainable reconstruction and recovery. In the statement, Security Council members also highlighted the importance of achieving a comprehensive peace based on the vision of a region where two democratic states, Israel and Palestine, live side by side in peace with secure and recognized borders. Zhang Jun, Chinas permanent representative to the UN, said he was glad to see the Security Council speaks in one voice to support the ceasefire. Saturdays statement was jointly initiated by China, Norway, Tunisia and France, according to Chinas Permanent Mission to the UN, which holds the presidency of the Security Council this month. It was approved by all  members of the council. More work needed China appreciates Norway, Tunisia and France for the joint efforts, Zhang said. He emphasized that more work needs to be done to stabilize the situation, meet humanitarian needs and seek a longterm solution. The exchange of rocket fire and airstrikes between Palestine and Israel came to an end late on Thursday after the Israeli security cabinet approved an Egyptianbrokered ceasefire with Hamas, the Islamic Resistance Movement. The halt to violence ended  days of bloodshed that left at least  Palestinians dead, including  children. Twelve Israelis died, including two children, Xinhua reported. The latest conflict marked the most intensive fighting between the two sides since the devastating  war in Gaza. The violence began with clashes between Palestinians and Israeli police at the AlAqsa Mosque compound in Jerusalems Old City on May  after Jewish settlers tried to evict Palestinian families from their homes in East Jerusalem. From May  the Security Council held four emergency meetings to discuss the conflict, including a public highlevel debate chaired by Chinese State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi on May . The council had proposed four media statements over the past two weeks calling for a ceasefire, but they had all been blocked by the US, Israels closest ally. During a General Assembly meeting on Thursday, Zhang reiterated Chinas commitment to protect the legitimate rights of the Palestinian people. China will continue to seek a just solution to the Palestine question at the Security Council based on the twostate solution, he said. Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian said on Friday that China plans to provide  million in cash to Palestine and donate , doses of COVID vaccines to the UN Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East.