China to help Malaysia with vaccines
2021-05-22 09:32
Premier Li Keqiangholds a meeting with Malaysian Prime Minister Muhyiddin Yassin via video link on Friday. PhotoXinhua    China will help improve the COVID vaccine production capacity of Malaysiathe first country to agree on a reciprocal vaccination arrangement with Chinaand encourage communications and cooperation between the two countries health departments and contagion control experts, Premier Li Keqiang said. Li, who held a meeting with Malaysian Prime Minister Muhyiddin Yassin via video link on Friday, said that China also hopes Malaysia guarantees early inoculation of Chinese citizens in Malaysia. As the pandemic is still raging across the world with no country being fully spared, Li said the international community should strengthen cooperation in fighting the virus and jointly building a community of health for all. Malaysia was also the first country to ink an intergovernmental agreement with China to deepen cooperation in vaccine development and accessibility. The premier said despite the pandemics impact, the two nations have seen progress in their trade and economic cooperation, which shows their close bonds of interests and complementarity in cooperation. China is willing to deepen cooperation with Malaysia in areas such as investment, digital economy, manufacturing, agriculture and marine infrastructure construction, Li said. Li added that China also encourages its companies to invest in Malaysia based on market rules and business principles to better benefit from winwin results. Chinas strong support has played an important role in Malaysias fight against the virus and Malaysia hopes to learn from Chinas successful experience, Muhyiddin said, adding that his country will facilitate the inoculation of Chinese citizens there. Saying that Malaysia highly values its relations with China, he said his country stands ready to strengthen cooperation with China in key areas and welcomes investment and business from Chinese companies.