Italy approves blneuro stimulus package to support economy
2021-05-21 09:40
Italian Prime Minister Mario Draghi speaks at a news conference in Rome, Italy, on May , . XINHUA    ROME  The Italian government on Thursday approved a billioneuros . billion U.S. dollars relief package to support the countrys businesses and workers affected by the COVID restrictions. The new relief measures included  billion euros of financial aid to companies, and nine billion euros for business credit support, according to Prime Minister Mario Draghi. Another four billion euros will be destined to the labor market, with various measures to support the most vulnerable workers and unemployed people. In addition, the package will also extend financial support to , more selfemployed workers, said Draghi. However, the prime minister warned that the country will not reach a sustained growth until the National Recovery and Resilience Plan PNRR  mostly funded through the European Union EU recovery program  starts being implemented. We expect the economy to bounce during this quarter already, so our forecasts for the year will likely be revised upwards, Draghi said at a joint press conference. Draghi said that the ongoing coronavirus vaccination plan was a main driver behind the moderate optimism. More than  million doses of vaccines had been administered across the country and . million people had been fully immunized as of Thursday, official figures showed. The success of the COVID vaccination plan is allowing us to carry on with the reopening under what we call a calculated risk... and, if we defeat the pandemic, the country is going to go back to growth, Draghi said. Among other measures, the support package will make it easier for young people to get a firsthome mortgage, including a state guarantee for lowincome young couples up to  percent of their entire financial exposure. It also allocated  million euros for the current year to a new Italian fund for basic scientific research in an effort to reverse the current brain drain of Italian researchers.  euro  . US dollars