EU opens external borders to travellers fully vaccinated against COVID
2021-05-21 09:39
People walk near the headquarters of the European Commission in Brussels, Belgium, May , . XINHUA    BRUSSELS  The European Union EU recommended on Thursday to open its external borders to nonessential travel into the bloc if travellers have been fully vaccinated against COVID. The Council of the EU, representing the  member states, adopted a recommendation that eases the COVID restrictions for nonEU travellers whose origin countries report no more than  cases per , inhabitants over the last  days. Before the criteria were updated on Thursday, the upper limit was  cases. EU member states are now encouraged to waive testing or quarantine for thirdcountry travellers who have received the last dose of a vaccine approved by the European Medicines Agency. The drugs regulator has so far greenlighted four vaccines  PfizerBioNTech, Moderna, AstraZeneca and Johnson  Johnson. EU countries could also lift the restriction on nonessential travel to those who have received the last recommended dose of a vaccine on the list of the World Health Organization for emergency use. An emergency brake mechanism is created, and reciprocity should be taken into account case by case, said the EU Council. The decision was made on the basis of a proposal presented by the European Commission in early May, which aims to salvage the blocs tourism industry as vaccination campaigns are progressing worldwide. Also on Thursday, the EU Council reached a provisional agreement with the European Parliament on the introduction of a COVID certificate system that can facilitate the free movement within the bloc. The commonly recognized digital certificate will be able to prove a traveller is fully vaccinated, or tests negative, or has recovered from the infection, and the holder of the certificate is thus free of travel restrictions. The system is supposed to be temporarily in place for  months. A vote on the proposition is expected to take place at the parliaments plenary in June.