Hefei one of foreigners favorite cities in China
2021-05-21 08:39
Medical workers brief foreigners things to look out for after receiving COVID vaccinations in Shushan district of Hefei, Anhui province, this month. Photo by Han SuyuanChina News Service    Academic atmosphere, opportunities in hightech industries cited as reasons If people wonder which Chinese cities are the most attractive to foreigners, the results of an annual poll by the State Administration of Foreign Experts Affairs offer some valuable insight. The administration started to release results after surveying thousands of expatriates living in China over the course of several months in . For two consecutive years, Hefei, capital of East Chinas Anhui province, was listed among the Top  cities. To spread the word about Hefei, Mohamed Noureldin from Egypt is thinking about making some interactive social media programs. He first came to Hefei to work as a language teacher  years ago.Then I got to love the city and wanted to stay, he said. I knew that the University of Science and Technology of China, one of the best universities in the country, is based here, so I decided to try furthering my studies. Seven years ago, he entered USTC as a postgraduate. He remained a student until last year when he got his PhD in public affairs administration and is now part of a visiting scholars program. Noureldin believes that Hefei offers a very good academic atmosphere. I want to do more research and apply what I have learned during my stay at USTC. Its a good opportunity to be at such a prestigious university, he said. Also, COVID control in China is safe and stable, but its horrible outside, he added. Pursuing an academic career is also the main reason that has kept Ammar Hawbani in Hefei for  years. Attracted by USTCs renown, the Yemeni came to study information science and technology at the university in , after he passed college entrance examinations in his home country with very high marks. Now an associate professor of wireless network technology, Hawbani said he enjoyed being at the university so much that he chose to stay for his masters and PhD degrees in . He said that through his observations of students, many young Chinese people exhibit innovative and productive traits. Many of my Chinese classmates started their own businesses here, as the citys robust hightech industries have been offering them more and more opportunities, said Hawbani, who is  and the father of a boy born in Hefei. Cho Sunghye, who is from the Republic of Korea, said We didnt expect that we would come to love Hefei as much as we do. A fluent Mandarin speaker, Cho has been living in the city with her family for  years. For most of that period, she has been teaching Korean at Hefei University. Now, she chairs a Hefeibased company dedicated to promoting cultural exchanges between the two countries. Cho and her husband, who have two sons, came to Hefei to fulfill their elder sons dream. When he was in the third year at middle school, his history teacher, who had some experience in China, suggested to students that they go and live there and see the old country, Cho said. The boya great fan of Chinese history who is able to name more than  figures from the Chinese classic, the Romance of the Three Kingdomswas inspired and wanted very much to follow his teachers suggestion. Due to its location, Hefei has connections to many stories from the Three Kingdoms period . My son also wanted to explore the inland areas of China more, said Cho, whose children both attended college in the nation. On our first visit to Hefei, I found it was not very developed but thought it had great potential, she said, adding that later, her prediction turned out to be right. Cho felt the rapidly developing city offered many opportunities to foreigners and persuaded more of her relatives to come. At the peak, I had  relatives living here. Now, there are roughly  people from the South Korea in Hefei, and before the COVID pandemic there were many more, she said, adding that most of her countrymen work in the citys hightech industries, such as the integrated circuit sector. Impressed by how the history teacher had influenced her son, Cho has encouraged Chinese students to go to South Korea. She has helped more than , students from Anhui study in her country, and more than , later found job opportunities there. She has also brought even more students from South Korea to China. In , she became the first person from her country to receive Chinas Friendship Award, the highest honor given to foreigners by the central government. In , she also became the first South Korean citizen to gain permanent residency in China, and in , she was listed as one of the most influential women of the century in Hefei.