Slow jabs pace fuels concerns of Africa virus resurgence
2021-11-03 09:06
A nurse gives a dose of a COVID vaccine to a woman at a hospital in Dakar, Senegal, on July .ZOHRA BENSEMRAREUTERS    Despite the number of new COVID cases in Africa decreasing since August, fears of further surges remain in the continent due to low vaccination rates. According to data from the Africa Centres for Disease Control and Prevention, only . percent of Africas . billion population have been fully vaccinated, while developed countries have surpassed  percent and are even administering booster doses. The figures clearly indicate vaccine inequality between developed and developing countries, despite a persistent vaccine equity call by the United Nations. In a statement addressing the  million COVID global fatality figure on Monday, UN SecretaryGeneral Antonio Guterres raised concerns on the vaccine inequality issue. While wealthy countries are rolling out third doses of the COVID vaccine, only about  percent of people in Africa are fully vaccinated. This is a global shame, he said. The best way to honor those  million people lost, and support health workers fighting this virus every day, is to make vaccine equity a reality by accelerating our efforts and ensuring maximum vigilance to defeat this virus. Similar concerns were also shared by John Nkengasong, director of the Africa CDC. It will take much longer for Africa to control COVID than previously predicted because of the slow pace of vaccinations across the continent. We are getting to a point where effective control of the pandemic will become more challenging, Nkengasong said. He warned that vaccination delay will give more room for the virus to continue mutating and could even see the continent start recording surging cases in the next two months as it has been witnessed previously. On Thursday, the World Health Organization said only five African countries, namely Seychelles, Mauritius, Morocco, Tunisia and Cabo Verde, will hit the yearend target set by the World Health Assembly of fully vaccinating  percent of their populations. The UN agency said Africa is facing a  million shortfall of COVID vaccines in meeting its yearend target of fully vaccinating  percent of its people. Nkengasong urged African Union member states to accelerate their inoculation efforts through the African Vaccine Acquisition Task Team and COVAX mechanisms, and try to vaccinate at least  percent of their populations by the end of next year.