dead, including  children, in Mideast hostilities UN
2021-05-20 09:31
Palestinians walk past a destroyed tower after an Israeli air strike in Gaza City, on May , . PhotoXinhua    UNITED NATIONS  The United Nations casualty count from hostilities in Gaza, the West Bank and Israel on Wednesday showed  people dead  including  children and an Israeli soldier  and thousands of people injured. The UN Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs OCHA said  Palestinians, including  children, were killed in Gaza. In the West Bank,  Palestinian deaths were tallied, including four children. Israeli sources reported  people killed, including two children and a soldier. Thousands of people are injured, mainly in the West Bank and in Gaza. The hostilities shuttered six hospitals and nine primary healthcare centers in Gaza. Damage from a nearby airstrike halted COVID testing at the Gaza Central Laboratory, the UN humanitarians reported. A nongovernmental organization hospital stopped functioning because of fuel shortages. Electric power in Gaza dropped, on average, to just three to four hours a day due to feeder line damage, OCHA said. The World Food Programme reported giving out electronic vouchers to , people in Gaza as of Monday. Humanitarian partners were assessing the damage to homes and prioritizing repair support. The UN refugee agency for Palestinians, known as UNRWA, said it provides for the displaced in designated areas water, sanitation, hygiene services for the displaced and electric generators. On Tuesday, the Israelis allowed several fuel trucks crossing through the Kerem Shalom to power electrical generators but held back additional humanitarian vehicles for security reasons. On Wednesday, OCHA said the barred trucks carried cargo that included COVID vaccines, first aid kits, medical disposables and drugs, including emergency medicines, fire extinguishers and fuel. Given the high number of vulnerable people, there is great concern about the spread of COVID. The world organization said Gaza crossings should be open for essential and humanitarian supplies, including fuel for basic services, supplies to curb the spread of COVID and to ensure that those who need lifesaving treatment can access such relief. The humanitarian fund for the occupied Palestinian territories expects to soon release  million U.S. dollars toward a response appeal to be announced by UN SecretaryGeneral Antonio Guterres and UndersecretaryGeneral Mark Lowcock, the UN chiefs relief coordinator.