Virus variant first detected in India found in Botswana
2021-05-19 11:27
The new COVID variant B.. which was first discovered in India was confirmed in Botswana on May , the health ministry announced on Monday.Christopher Nyanga, permanent secretary in the Ministry of Health and Wellness, said as of May , two people tested positive for the B.. variant following arrival in the country of people of Indian origin on April .The two cases were part of  people, both Botswanan individuals and some Indian nationals who were tested for COVID. From this number,  tested positive, with two showing the B.. variant. The patients are currently receiving medical care and remain stable with no lifethreatening symptoms, he said in a statement.Botswana has become the eighth African country where the Indian coronavirus variant has been confirmed. The other countries are Nigeria, Algeria, Kenya, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Morocco, Uganda and South Africa, Africanews reported recently.The World Health Organization WHO has designated the COVID B.. first found in India in October last year as a variant of global concern. The variant has now spread to about  countries worldwide. Other COVID variants of concern so classified by the WHO include the B... first detected in the United Kingdom, the B.. first detected in South Africa and the P.. first detected in Brazil.As of May , the Reuters COVID Tracker reported that there were approximately . million reported infections and , reported deaths caused by the novel coronavirus in Africa. A million new infections are reported every  days with South Africa, Egypt, Botswana, Tunisia and Ethiopia topping the new infection charts every day.South Africa, Egypt, Tunisia, Ethiopia and Kenya are the countries reporting the most deaths each day. A wave of new infections on the continent has partly been attributed to the advent of the COVID variants.According to information released by the WHO Regional Office for Africa on May ,  African countries are rolling out COVID vaccines and more than  million doses have been given on the continent.The WHO said that there was a vaccine supply crunch with about  nations relying on doses from COVAX and the Serum Institute of India being left behind as vaccines made in India are diverted for domestic use.