ChinaEurope trains carry cargo and hope
2021-05-19 09:49
Twentyfoot equivalent units are stocked at the goods yard of the SinoKazakhstan International Logistics Base in Lianyungang, Jiangsu province. PHOTO PROVIDED TO CHINA DAILY    Crossborder transportation corridors are helping to boost trade volumes and the global fight against the COVID pandemic The ChinaEurope freight trains that leave Lianyungang, Jiangsu province, for Kazakhstan not only provide a safe and reliable international logistics channel, but also contribute to the global fight against COVID. In March, trains carrying  million doses of the COVID vaccine arrived in Kazakhstan with the support of the Lianyungang customs and railway departments. Moreover, last year,  trains carrying , Twentyfoot equivalent unit shipping containers arrived in Europe from the port city, a rise of . percent yearonyear, according to the Lianyungang Port Group. In , President Xi Jinping and Kazakhstans President Nursultan Nazarbayev witnessed the launch of the first phase of the SinoKazakhstan International Logistics Base via a livestream as they attended that years Shanghai Cooperation Organization summit. Meanwhile, in , Lianyungang SinoKazakhstan International Logistics, a joint venture, was established by Lianyungang Port Group and a Kazakh company. As the first international platform for the countries to build the Silk Road Economic Belt, it was also the citys first international trade program to implement the Belt and Road Initiative. With total investment of  million yuan  million, a ,squaremeter goods yard has been built, allowing the company to store about , TEU containers. With . kilometers of railway lines to transport the containers, the maximum annual handling capacity of the base has reached , TEUs. Reduced journey times In December , operations started for freight trains departing Lianyungang to Europe through Kazakhstan. The trains, which passed through six countries to reach their destination in Germany, took just  days to complete the whole trip, about onequarter the time required to transport the goods by sea. In February , the first batch of wheatabout  metric tonswas transported from Kazakhstan to the SinoKazakhstan International Logistics Base before being carried by cargo ships to countries in Southeast Asia. In , Xi and Nazarbayev also witnessed a livestream of the latest achievements in logistics cooperation between the two countries and the launch of crossborder transportation between China, Kazakhstan and other Asian and European countries. Xiang Xuelong, Party secretary of Lianyungang, said the city will further deepen communications and cooperation with countries participating in the BRI and undertake more thorough reform and openingup activities. We will strive to establish a more open and more vigorous platform for those countries, he said. We will build an international hub port, a ,ton crude oil terminal and a ,ton ore terminal. We will also continue to improve our services, increase new shipping routes and improve efficiency of clearance procedures at customs.