Vaccination efforts stepped up to contain outbreak
2021-05-19 07:13
A citizen receives a dose of COVID vaccine at a vaccination site in Hefei, East Chinas Anhui province, May , . PhotoXinhua    Since the countrys first confirmed case of COVID in more than three weeks was reported on May , medical workers and volunteers have conducted allout efforts to contain the latest outbreak. By Tuesday afternoon, Anhui province had reported seven confirmed cases and seven asymptomatic cases, while Liaoning province had  confirmed cases and five asymptomatic cases, according to news conferences in the regions. Liaoning reported no new cases on Tuesday, while Luan in Anhui reported one asymptotic case. Thousands of local medical workers and volunteers have concentrated on massive nucleic acid testing, vaccination and helping people who are quarantined. In Yingkou, Liaoning, where , people were quarantined by the end of Monday,  teams of volunteers made more than , contactless deliveries of daily necessities, said Zhang Xianbin, vicemayor of Yingkou. To ensure that the city was safe from a further outbreak, the municipal government of Shenyang, the provincial capital, declared on Tuesday afternoon the expansion of testing to areas beyond where the current four cases were found, with the support of over , medical workers. Tong Mingming, a nurse in Hefei, the capital of Anhui, said that after administering hundreds of doses of vaccines to residents, she was very tired but would continue to work. Tong had planned to take a vacation recently, since she had worked throughout the recent fiveday May Day holiday. However, she was kept on duty after the new cases were found in the citys Feixi county and the neighboring city of Luan. Epidemic prevention and control authorities learned by tracking of the cases that they were related to two women who had traveled to Yingkou, and the city responded immediately. Wei Sheng, an expert from the Wuhanbased Huazhong University of Science and Technology in Hubei province, said in a China Central Television report on Monday that the outbreak probably began in the middle of April, and authorities were still looking for the earliest case. As the spread of the virus had been well contained in Hefei, which locked down only one hotel, the city has conducted an allout vaccination effort, said Wang Wensong, the citys vicemayor. Yaohai district, where nurse Tong works, administered , doses of vaccine in just five days, according to the local government. Zhang Xiaofeng, deputy director of Hefeis health commission, said on Friday that the city itself had been able to provide , doses each day. On Saturday, he said that , people had been vaccinated on Friday. There were enough vaccines to go around and people should remain calm, he said. Recalling the situation in early , Tong, the nurse, said she feels safer working at the front line because we are now more experienced in handling the situation and protected by the vaccines.