US COVID vaccines effective against variant in India expert
2021-05-19 05:35
Anthony Fauci, Director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases at the National Institutes of Health NIH, testifies before a Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee hearing to discuss the ongoing federal response to COVID, at the US Capitol in Washington, DC, US, May , . PhotoAgencies    WASHINGTON  The coronavirus vaccines authorized in the United States are effective at combating the strain that is currently ravaging India, US infectious diseases expert Anthony Fauci told a White House briefing on Tuesday. Initial studies indicated the PfizerBioNTech and Moderna vaccines are at least partially and probably quite protective against serious illness, hospitalization and death, indicating another very strong reason why we should be getting vaccinated, he said. In one study, researchers looked at the efficacy of Pfizer and Modernas vaccines against the variants first detected in India. The findings, which were reported in a preprint paper on biorxiv.org and have yet to be peerreviewed, showed both vaccines were still effective. There is a good reason to believe that vaccinated individuals will remain protected against the B.. and B.. variants, the researchers was quoted as saying. Public health experts think the B.. variant is likely leading to the massive spike in infections, hospitalizations and deaths in India, according to the report by The Hill on Tuesday. That strain has also been linked to increased cases throughout parts of Europe, and the World Health Organization recently reclassified it as a variant of concern  an indication that the variant has the highest public health implications. On Monday, the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention CDC reported , new cases of COVID, the lowest daily case number since June in this country. CDC Director Rochelle Walensky said that  percent of people aged  and older have received at least one dose of a coronavirus vaccine. In addition, more than . million teens aged  to  have received their first dose since the PfizerBioNTech vaccine was authorized for that age group last week.