Xi charts joint construction of community with a shared future for mankind
2021-05-18 11:25
President Xi Jinping delivers a keynote speech via video at the opening ceremony of the Boao Forum for Asia BFA Annual Conference , April , . PhotoXinhua    BEIJING  Chinese President Xi Jinping has been calling for building a global community of health for all as the stillrampaging COVID highlights the urgency for humanity to fight as one when facing such a health crisis that recognizes no border and pities no race. Since the begining of the pandemic, China has been carrying out global cooperation to tackle the common challenge, providing medical supplies and vaccines to other countries and regions and sharing experience in virus prevention and treating patients. In March , Xi first proposed the concept of building a global community of health for all in a message to French President Emmanuel Macron. Xi said in the message that China is willing to make concerted efforts with France to enhance international cooperation in epidemic prevention and control, support the United Nations UN and the World Health Organization to play a core role in improving global public health governance, and build a global community of health for all. To put the proposal into practice, China has been taking the lead in participating in global efforts to meet challenges brought by the pandemic. In a phone conversation with his Indonesian counterpart, Joko Widodo, in April , Xi noted that the coronavirus disease has broken out in multiple countries and regions. China will uphold the vision of building a community with a shared future for mankind, share its experience and provide as much support as it can for the global battle against COVID, and work with other countries to promote the development of global public health and build a global community of health for all, he said. When addressing the opening of the rd session of the World Health Assembly via video link in May , Xi announced concrete measures to boost the global fight against COVID. In his speech, Xi said, China will provide  billion over two years to help with COVID response and with economic and social development in affected countries, especially developing countries. China will work with the UN to set up a global humanitarian response depot and hub in China, ensure the operation of antiepidemic supply chains and foster green corridors for fasttrack transportation and customs clearance, he said. COVID vaccine development and deployment in China, when available, will be made a global public good, said the president. One year after making the promise, China has been unswervingly walking its talk to ensure vaccine accessibility and affordability in developing countries. According to official data released earlier this month, China has provided vaccine assistance to more than  countries, and exported vaccines to more than  countries. In a telephone conversation with Dominican Prime Minister Roosevelt Skerrit in January, Xi said China will continue providing assistance and support for developing countries, and striving to make vaccines public goods that are accessible and affordable to people in all countries. China stands ready to increase vaccine cooperation, cement international solidarity against COVID, and promote the building of a global community of health for all, Xi said in a telephone conversation with his Egyptian counterpart, AbdelFattah alSisi, in February. When delivering a keynote speech via video at the opening ceremony of the Boao Forum for Asia Annual Conference  in April, Xi reiterated his vision for creating a future of health and security with solidarity and cooperation. We must put people and their lives above anything else, scale up information sharing and collective efforts, and enhance public health and medical cooperation, he said. For this purpose, international cooperation should be bolstered on the research and development, production and distribution of vaccines, so that everyone in the world can access and afford the vaccines they need, said the Chinese president. In his phone conversation with German Chancellor Angela Merkel in April, Xi said vaccines are used to prevent diseases and save lives, while stressing that China opposes the politicization of vaccines or vaccine nationalism, and stands ready to work with Germany and the international community as a whole to promote fair and reasonable vaccine distribution, support and help developing countries to obtain vaccines, and contribute to humankinds common fight against the pandemic for an early victory.