Biden to send  mln doses of USauthorized vaccines abroad for first time
2021-05-18 04:32
US President Joe Biden. PhotoAgencies    WASHINGTON  President Joe Biden will send at least  million more COVID vaccine doses abroad by the end of June, marking the first time the United States is sharing vaccines authorized for domestic use. The move marks a notable pivot from the White House as the administration seeks to use the countrys vaccine supply as a diplomatic tool with the pandemic outlook brightening at home. Biden announced on Monday that his administration will send doses of the Pfizer IncBioNTech SE, Moderna Inc and Johnson  Johnson vaccines, on top of  million AstraZeneca Plc doses he had already planned to give to other countries. Unlike the others, AstraZenecas shot is not yet authorized for use in the United States. Just as in World War Two America was the arsenal of democracy, in the battle against COVID pandemic our nation is going to be the arsenal of vaccines, Biden said. The president has been under pressure to share vaccines to help contain worsening epidemics from India to Brazil, where health experts fear new, more contagious coronavirus variants could undermine the effectiveness of available shots. Biden noted that no other country will send more vaccines abroad than the United States. So far, the United Stages has sent a few million AstraZeneca doses to Canada and Mexico. We want to lead the world with our values with this demonstration of our innovation, ingenuity, and the fundamental decency of American people, Biden said. The White House has not provided any details about what countries will receive the shots. Biden said that Jeff Zients, who heads the US vaccine efforts, will now also lead the global vaccine push. The United States has administered more than  million COVID vaccine doses and distributed more than  million, according to federal data updated on Monday morning. With more and more Americans vaccinated, US deaths from COVID last week fell to their lowest in nearly  months, while the number of new cases declined for a fifth consecutive week, according to a Reuters analysis of state and county data. Biden warned that those who do not get vaccinated will end up paying the price as he lamented that were still losing too many Americans despite the significant progress. Reuters