Lao govt mulls steps to reopen country PM
2021-11-02 14:34
Photo taken on Oct ,  from the first dynamic testing train travelling from Lao capital Vientiane to LaosChina border town of Boten shows the view of northern Laos. PhotoXinhua    VIENTIANE  Addressing the opening of the National Assembly, Lao Prime Minister Phankham Viphavanh told members that Laos needs to consider the steps to take to reopen the country, including the start of services on the ChinaLaos railway. The National Assemblys NA ninth legislature began its second ordinary session with a debate on ways to deal with the COVID outbreak and revitalize the economy, which has been severely impacted by the pandemic, local daily Vientiane Times reported on Tuesday. The prime minister outlined the socioeconomic development plan for  at the session on Monday, which seeks to address the countrys financial and economic difficulties. He said the government needs to set out a strategic plan on comprehensive preparations to open up the country, including the start of railway services. Laos and China have agreed to inaugurate the ChinaLaos railway on Dec. . International experts say the COVID pandemic is likely to continue and that more potent variants of the virus could develop. This makes it essential to immunize as many people as possible. The Lao government expects to vaccinate at least  percent of the adult population by the end of   a figure that exceeds the original target of  percent. So far, more than . million people have received a first dose of a COVID vaccine, accounting for . percent of the total, while more than . million people or . percent are now fully vaccinated. The prime minister also said that his administration would continue to promote local and foreign private investment in order to finance largescale projects such as expressways, trade centers, industrial parks, tourist attractions and hotels. He promised to make breakthroughs in the development of a digital economy and do more to promote commercialscale production and services, as well as bolster exports and imports.