Seeking balance between safety, overreach
2021-05-14 15:31
This undated photo captures foreign workers waiting to cross a street in Causeway Bay, Hong Kong. Photo by EDMOND TANG  CHINA DAILY    Mutated strains of the COVID virus landed the Hong Kong government in hot water following official orders to test all unvaccinated foreign domestic workers and the later scrapped plan to make vaccinations a requirement for their workvisa renewal. The controversy has put the administration to the test, and shown the delicate balancing act between science, ethnicity and power in the attempt to control the virus. The government on April  ordered all foreign domestic workers to undergo COVID tests after identifying at least five helpers  as they are referred to colloquially  carrying a more transmissive variant. Nearly , of more than , foreign domestic workers in the city have since taken the test, in addition to about , who had been fully vaccinated and exempted from the mandatory testing, official figures show. The government also floated a plan to make COVID vaccinations mandatory for foreign domestic workers work visas, only to review and then withdraw it on Tuesday after public uproar and racism accusations. Hong Kong Chief Executive Carrie Lam Cheng Yuetngor said at a media briefing that the reversal was based on assessment of public health risks and consultation with Indonesian and Filipino consular offcials. The total number of foreign domestic workers in Hong Kong, of whom Filipinos and Indonesians comprise more than  percent, stood at , in April, compared with , during the same period last year, according to Immigration Department data. Philippine Consul General Raly Tejada said mandatory vaccinations should be extended to all foreign workers, and not just domestic workers, to avoid claims of discrimination. We support the campaign for a safe and healthy environment for all, said Shiella Grace Estrada, chairperson of the Progressive Labor Union of Domestic Workers in Hong Kong, which represents Filipino, Indonesian, Thai and Nepalese domestic workers in the special administrative region. But were really against making vaccinations mandatory because many concerns need to be addressed first. Why only target foreign domestic workers? Whats the point of having them vaccinated if their employers arent required to do so? The governments conciliatory response to the backlash has assuaged some public concerns. After the government said on May  that it would shelve the vaccination plan, the Mission for Migrant Workers said We continue to encourage the Hong Kong government to ensure that any policy it implements is in accordance with scientific analysis, fairness and proper consultation with the concerned communities and other stakeholders. But the controversy was renewed on Tuesday, when the government announced another round of testing for foreign domestic workers from May . The government said another round was needed due to the virus variants incubation period of up to  days, and that the Health Department wanted to make sure that there is no community transmission. In a statement, Tejada questioned the need for it, and said that it was illogical not to include the workers employers in the tests. According to Tejada, Labour and Social Welfare Secretary Law Chikwong met the consuls general of the Philippines and Indonesia separately on Monday. Tejada said when asked why employers needed not be tested as well, Law replied that it was a question of logistics since there are about  million such employers in Hong Kong. Law said that they learned from the last experience and will make the second round of mandatory testing more efficient and convenient, he said. Labor officials will ask employers to make appointments for their workers so that there will be no rush and unnecessary crowding, Tejada said. But he cautioned that it will not go down well with the community. The Indonesian consulate called the testing an unfair policy in a statement. Shiella Grace Estrada also questioned the rationale behind the decision. The ongoing saga has also revived discussions about foreign domestic workers rights protections, and the Hong Kong authorities treatment of this more vulnerable group in society. The MFMW has urged the SAR government to take notice of the contributions and sacrifices of foreign domestic workers in Hong Kong society, especially during the pandemic. We must unite in the fight against the pandemic and protect the vulnerable around us, it said. The Philippines and Indonesia earlier submitted a demarche requesting HKSAR authorities to enhance the wellbeing of foreign domestic workers amid the pandemic. Foreign domestic workers have been more affected by socialdistancing orders during the pandemic, as they tend to gather in parks and other public areas on their day off. Their cramped living conditions also posed new threats, providing fertile ground for the airborne and droplet transmission of the virus  a matter made worse by their having to live in designated facilities between employments.