Brazilian town proud of having mass immunization with Chinas Sinovac vaccine
2021-05-14 10:48
A medical worker shows a CoronaVac vaccine developed by Chinese firm Sinovac in Brasilia, Brazil, Feb , . PhotoXinhua    SERRANA, Brazil  The small Brazilian town of Serrana, with a population of some ,, has been proud of undertaking a mass immunization campaign with the Chinesemade vaccine, according to Serrana Mayor Leonardo Capitelli. The CoronaVac vaccine developed by Chinese pharmaceutical firm Sinovac is the most prevalent in Brazil through cooperation with the Sao Paulobased Butantan Institute, a state governmentfunded scientific research center. The vaccine accounts for almost  percent of all the doses applied in Brazil. Located in the southeast state of Sao Paulo, Serrana is a sugarcaneproducing agricultural town. Project S is the Butantanled scheme to vaccinate the entire adult population of , and verify the vaccines effectiveness against COVID. It is a source of pride to be part of the project, since it is the only one of its kind in the world for tackling the pandemic, Capitelli told Xinhua. Serrana will have a before and after due to the project, said Capitelli, describing the town as an engine of positive COVID vaccine experiences. Between Feb  and April , the Butantan Institute gradually vaccinated nearly every adult, making a great contribution to science in Brazil and the world, said the mayor. Mass vaccination in Serrana coincided with Brazils second wave of COVID infections, especially in February and March, with the resulting saturation of hospitals, and record number of cases and deaths due to the virus. The second wave hit us hard amid the vaccination, with full hospitals and exhausted doctors. But since the second dose was completed, the flow of patients has declined, said Capitelli, adding that there have been no serious cases since April . Vaccination and the publics cooperation in the town reduced an average of  cases a day to just four asymptomatic or mild cases. Immunization with the Sinovac vaccines, which took eight weeks, restored hope to the inhabitants of Serrana, perhaps Brazils most protected town against the coronavirus. We have to thank our hospital, the Butantan Institute, Sinovac, and all those who helped turn our results into a model for the world, said Capitelli. Local resident Najib Almeida Issa, , who manages a small restaurant and bar, told Xinhua that the vaccination campaign has provided this oasis with future prospects after more than a year of statewide lockdown measures. The number of sales, sales in general, orders and consumption are rebounding, Issa said, and life is returning to how it was before, since people feel safer to go out into the streets, do their basic shopping and enter stores. Thanks to Project S and the Sinovac vaccines, Almeida said he felt less anxious and more secure, knowing that one has been immunized and is not going to die from this. Elvira Bidinello, a yearold homemaker who entered her restaurant to buy traditional Brazilian cheese bread, said that business has picked up as residents feel safer about going about their lives. Bidinello said she also felt more protected after getting vaccinated, although I dont stop taking care of myself. The fact that the Butantan Institute chose Serrana to test a vaccine developed in China felt like a prize, she said. For us it was the greatest gift we could receive... I loved it. I think whoever received the vaccine would not regret it, said Bidinello. Standing in line at the Serrana lottery store, Camila Almeida da Silva, , was looking to try her fortune after coming through the worst of the pandemic. Since the outbreak she has worked as a cleaner at Serrana State Hospital, witnessing COVIDs impact on victims and healthcare workers. I was vaccinated with CoronaVac and I think that in the city many things have changed. Transmission dropped a lot and that helped commerce. We are going to try to return to normality, Da Silva told Xinhua. Serrana saw at least  COVID deaths, out of the more than , that Brazil has registered throughout the pandemic, and about , cases, out of the more than  million cases nationwide. Looking into the future, Serrana Mayor Capitelli voiced hope that the towns status as a bulwark against the coronavirus will help attract more businesses to the bedroom community of mostly residential homes and create local jobs. We launched a tax incentive program so that Serrana can become a great service center. We want to generate employment and income with the fully vaccinated population, he said.