WHOs Sinopharm approval a big win for global drive
2021-05-14 09:14
A healthcare worker in North Macedonia handles Chinas Sinopharm coronavirus disease COVID vaccines at a sport centre, as the country continues its mass inoculation campaign, in Stip, North Macedonia, May , . PhotoAgencies    The World Health Organization has granted emergency use approval for the Chinese Sinopharm vaccine, paving the way for a more pronounced role by Beijing in vaccinating the world against COVID. The approval makes China the only nonWestern country to have received WHO backing for its vaccines, which affirms their quality, safety, efficacy and accessibility. As WHO DirectorGeneral Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus declared, the approval expands the list of COVID vaccines that COVAX, the mechanism created to pool the global vaccine effort and ensure fairer distribution, can buy. The approval also gives countries the confidence to expedite their own regulatory approval, and to import and administer the Sinopharm vaccine. This is significant, given that China is a strong supporter of COVAX and has previously pledged to share its vaccines with developing countries as a global public good. The approval of the first Chinese vaccine by the WHO is particularly significant for African countries, which currently face hurdles to gaining access to Westernproduced vaccines. The continent has heavily relied on the Indiaproduced OxfordAstraZeneca vaccine, which accounts for more than  percent of the doses already supplied to the continent. Countries like Kenya got the first shipment of the vaccine to inoculate their most vulnerable groups. India has since suspended export of the commodity as it races to save its own people from the virus. John Nkengasong, director of the Africa Centres for Disease Control and Prevention, has warned that Indias pandemic situation could easily play out in Africa if the continent doesnt get the needed quantity of vaccines. Only . percent of Africas population has so far been vaccinated with a first dose, compared with  percent in Europe and  percent in North America, according to the Our World in Data, a project of the Global Change Data Lab, a nonprofit organization based in the United Kingdom. With  out of the  African countries relying on COVAX as the main source of vaccines, the approval of the Sinopharm vaccine now clears the way for China to supply the pledged  million doses to developing countries through COVAX.There is also room for additional purchases bilaterally and through multilateral avenues such as the African Unions vaccine task force. As with other Chinese vaccines, the ease of storage of the Sinopharm vaccine makes it an ideal commodity for lowresource economiesa huge advantage compared with Westernproduced vaccines that require complex refrigeration facilities, which are hard to come by in many parts of Africa. Alongside the news of the Sinopharm vaccines approval, Egypt announced that it will locally manufacture  million doses of the Chinese Sinovac vaccine and ramp up production to  million doses in the first year. Through such strategic partnerships, Africa can shorten the wait for local vaccine manufacturing and improve the prospects for a more sustained response to the pandemic. Despite its own domestic need for vaccines, China has demonstrated great amity with other countries around the world in confronting the pandemic. Beijing has donated vaccines to over  countries in Africa, Asia, Latin America and Europe. In Africa, countries such as Algeria, Morocco, Tunisia, Egypt, Senegal, Guinea, Sierra Leone, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, the Republic of Congo, Namibia, Zimbabwe and Mozambique have received donations of vaccines from China. Even if COVAX were to optimally deliver on its promise to cover  percent of beneficiary country population, that would not be enough to jumpstart herd immunity. To make up for the difference, African countries will have to purchase an extra  billion doses to cover  percent of the population. The addition of Chinese vaccines to the WHO vault means that developing countries now have more options that have received the mark of quality from the world health watchdog. Chinese vaccines have another advantage relating to safety. Despite fears and concerns that have led to Western governments halting administration of some Europeanor United Statesproduced vaccines, such concerns have not been raised with Chinese vaccine candidates. China should now be ready to ramp up production of the Sinopharm as well as other vaccines to meet the demand, which is sure to accelerate. The writer is a scholar of international relations with a focus on AfricaChina relations. The views do not necessarily reflect those of China Daily.