Indias COVID death toll surpasses ,
2021-05-12 13:56
Medics tend to a man with breathing problems inside a COVID ward of a governmentrun hospital, amidst the coronavirus disease COVID pandemic, in Bijnor district, Uttar Pradesh, India, May , . PhotoAgencies    NEW DELHI  Indias COVID death toll crossed the ,mark as the total number of cases surpassed  million on Wednesday, confirmed the federal health ministry. While the death toll rose to ,, the COVID tally reached at ,,. As many as , deaths, the highest so far, were registered during the past  hours, as a spike of , cases was recorded since Tuesday morning. There are still ,, active cases in the country, with a decrease of , cases in the past  hours. This is the second consecutive day when a decrease in active cases was witnessed. A total of ,, people have been cured and discharged from hospitals so far across the country. As the COVID figures continue to peak, the federal government has ruled out a complete lockdown to contain the worsening situation. Some states have imposed night curfews or partial lockdowns. Principal Scientific Advisor to Indias Federal Government K. Vijay Raghavan recently said a third COVID wave was inevitable in the country. Delhi has been put under a third successive lockdown till May . While some school examinations are cancelled, others have been postponed. Indias nationwide vaccination drive was kicked off on Jan. , and the third phase of vaccination for people aged above  began on May . Over  million vaccination doses have been administered to the people across the country. Meanwhile, the federal government has ramped up COVID testing facilities across the country, as over  million tests have been conducted so far. As many as ,, tests were conducted till Tuesday, out of which ,, tests were conducted on Tuesday alone, said the latest data issued by the Indian Council of Medical Research ICMR on Wednesday. Two types of vaccines, the Covishield vaccine and the Covaxin vaccine, are being administered in India. Meanwhile, the country received its first doses of Russianmade SputnikV on May .