Chinese brands show strong resilience amid pandemic
2021-05-12 01:05
A screenshot of the cloud exhibition for China Brand Day . PhotoChina Brand Day official website    Chinese brands have demonstrated strong resilience to the challenges presented by the COVID pandemic, according to the latest report by Brand Finance, a Londonbased brand valuation consultancy. The total brand value captured in the Brand Finance China  ranking of the countrys top  most valuable brands has remained stable year on year and now stands at . trillion. The findings show that brands at the forefront of the nations successful response to the health emergency and those powering the transition of consumption online  across the pharma, retail, and media sectors  have performed particularly well and recorded the highest brand value increases, while the banking and tech sectors still dominate in terms of the combined value and number of brands contributed to the top  ranking. The latest iteration of the annual study by the consultancy was unveiled at the opening ceremony of the Shenzhen Brand Week on Tuesday, following the National Brand Day celebrated in China on May  each year. With  brands represented in the Brand Finance China  ranking, the Greater Bay Area is home to more of the nations top brands than any other region in China, while Shenzhen, in particular is known nationally and globally as a vibrant tech hub. The tech sector is represented by  brands in the top  ranking  more than any other industry, with hundreds of other brands powered by technological innovation. David Haigh, chairman and chief executive of Brand Finance, said Shenzhen and the Greater Bay Area are the perfect location for a discussion about Chinese brands and their development. Shenzhenbased WeChat is now the worlds strongest brand, ahead of Ferrari and CocaCola. Tencent, Huawei, and Ping An  all from Shenzhen  feature among the nations top  most valuable brands. The city is developing fast and its brands are its best ambassadors. Banking continues to be the nations most valuable sector by a considerable margin, with its  brands featuring in the ranking accounting for  percent of the total brand value. The study finds that Chinese banks have been largely impervious to the issues plaguing their counterparts elsewhere in the world, which is largely attributable to the banking sectors role in Chinas timely and effective response to COVID that included regulatory policy adjustments for asset management, wealth management, and interbanking, as well as increased investment into digitalization. Despite a  percent drop in brand value to . billion, ICBC remains Chinas most valuable brand, maintaining a healthy lead ahead of China Construction Bank down  percent to . billion and Agricultural Bank of China down  percent to . billion, in rd and th place respectively. The report shows that the pharma sector has recorded the greatest cumulative brand value growth in the ranking, up a staggering of  percent yearonyear. Leading the way as the sectors most valuable brand is Sinopharm, which has recorded a  percent brand value increase to . billion, jumping  spots to th position. Sinopharm is making major strides in the global race to produce COVID vaccinations and has since developed a vaccine that has already been distributed to millions worldwide. The retail sector  and more specifically ecommerce  is one of the few sectors that has truly benefitted from the pandemic, with brands experiencing an unprecedented surge in demand as consumers turned online following store closures. The nations top four ecommerce brands  Taobao, Tmall, Alibaba.com and JD.com  have all seen significant brand value growth. Taobao brand value . billion and Tmall brand value . billion have entered the top  for the firsttime following  percent and  percent brand value increases, respectively. In addition to measuring overall brand value, Brand Finance also determines the relative strength of brands based on metrics of marketing investment, stakeholder equity, and business performance. According to these criteria, WeChat emerges as Chinas strongest brand, with a Brand Strength Index BSI score of . out of . As one of Chinas homegrown tech successes it also enjoyed a rapid boost in brand value, increasing by  percent to . billion and jumping five spots to claim nd place among the nations most valuable brands. During the pandemic, WeChat ran several governmentmandated health code apps to keep track of those traveling or in quarantine, providing access to realtime data on COVID, online consultations, and selfdiagnosis services powered by artificial intelligence to over  million users.