Rankings race Novaks No  priority
2021-11-02 09:11
Novak Djokovic. Photo provided to China Daily    Serb bidding to surpass Sampras by ending another season at the summit PARISNovak Djokovic is looking to set more records in his first tournament since his US Open final defeat, while the time Grand Slam champion again declined to confirm whether he would play at the Australian Open in January. Djokovic will play both singles and doubles at the Paris Masters, which started on Monday. The topranked Serb can break a tie with American great Pete Sampras with a record seventh yearend No  finish. Djokovic currently has a lead of , points over No  Daniil Medvedev in the Race to Turin and could clinch the yearend No  spot in Paris before the end of the season. The yearend No  is on the line between Medvedev and myself, and Im in a pretty good position in terms of the ranking points and the Race, Djokovic told a news conference Sunday, so thats obviously the goal for the end of the season, other than trying to do well in the Davis Cup with the national team. So hopefully I can have a strong finish of the season and clinch that yearend No . Both Djokovic and Medvedev will compete at the Paris Masters and the ATP Finals. The Paris Masters champion will earn , points while the winner of the ATP Finals can earn up to , points with a perfect run. Although the current ATP rankings still include some results from  and  to take into account the COVID situation, the yearend No  is based only on  results as the ATP Tour wants it to reflect the worlds best performer of this calendar season. Djokovic will play doubles to build up his fitness and prepare for the yearend Davis Cup with Serbia. There are questions marks about Djokovics fitness levels as he looked exhausted in the Tokyo Olympics and has not played any competitive match since Sept . The season was very draining for me and demanding in every aspect, Djokovic said, but I have had similar situations before where I was just super tired, but somehow managed to find the strength and finish the year and finish the season strong. Hopefully that will be the case again. Djokovic has lifted the Paris Masters trophy a record five times. He could overtake Rafael Nadal for the most Masters  titles won. Nadal and Djokovic have won  Masters  titles each, eight more than Roger Federer. Djokovic did not confirm whether he would play at the Australian Open due to vaccinationlinked regulations. Im going to decide on whether I go to Australia or not after I see the official statement from Tennis Australia, Djokovic said. Djokovic, who has won the Australian Open a record nine times and shares the mens Grand Slam record of  titles with Federer and Nadal, hasnt confirmed whether he has been vaccinated for COVID. If he is not vaccinated, he risks missing the tournament he has won for the last three years. Despite missing out on the first calendaryear Grand Slam in mens tennis since , Djokovic has turned the defeat against Medvedev in New York into a positive moment. I feel that the US Open loss in the final has arrived, you know, arguably at the worst or at the best time for me, in a way, Djokovic said. Djokovic hid his tears during a changeover in the last set by covering his face with a towel as the crowd at Flushing Meadows vocally supported him. That kind of energy that I received from the crowd from the moment I stepped in the court until I stepped out is a win for life, Djokovic said. Djokovic got a firstround bye at the Paris Masters and starts with a match against either Marton Fucsovics or Fabio Fognini. AFP