Vaccine listing benefits global supply
2021-05-11 07:58
SONG CHENCHINA DAILY    The decision announced on Friday by the World Health Organization in Geneva to grant emergency use listing EUL to a COVID vaccine manufactured in China represents a milestone achievement. The successful EUL application is built on years of training and research by Chinese scientists, and decades of investment, coordinated efforts, and reform on the part of the government, national regulators, and the manufacturers themselves. We look forward to such recognition of more Chineseproduced vaccines in the future, and not only for COVID. This marks a new chapter in Chinas role in global public goods supply in health, building on its RD capability and manufacturing capacity, as well as its commitment to contribute substantially to global health. The highly anticipated WHO listing of the vaccine communicates both at home and abroad that the vaccines are of assured quality, safe for use, meets the WHOs requirements for efficacy, and will be an important tool in fighting the global pandemic which has claimed over  million lives worldwide. At this point last year, we hopedbut could not be confidentthat the world would have even one effective vaccine against a completely new virus. It is a testament to the ingenuity and dedication of scientists and researchers in China and around the globe, and the resilience and power of humankind in fighting a common challenge, with Fridays announcement adding to the five EULs already granted by the WHO for COVID, with another five vaccines still under active review. These vaccines are a critically important part of the COVID pandemic toolkit. In addition to contact tracing, testing, isolating andor quarantine where needed, personal protection measures like masking and handwashing, or improved medical treatments, COVID vaccines will help us put the pandemic behind us. But that wont happen until the vaccines are made available to everyone, everywhere. At home in China, there is urgent need for us to press ahead with the unfinished businesses of the response. We need to continue to adhere to the public health measures hygiene, physical distancing, masks that remain essential in a vaccinated world while the pandemic continues around us. At the same time, we need to overcome any COVID complacency and commit to be vaccinated. The success of the pandemic response in  and earlier this year has meant that, in China, we now live mostly unrestricted in our daily routines. That may make some of us think that getting the vaccine is something we will do eventually, but there is no rush. The reality, however, is the sooner we are all vaccinated, the sooner can we look forward to a day when trade and tourism can resume. Each one of us has a part to play in shortening the length of time between now and when COVID is truly a thing of the past. Around the world, more than a billion vaccine doses have been administered. Among those,  million were administered in Aprilbut only  percent  million doses went to lowincome countries. The rest million doseswent to highand middleincome countries. Collectively, we need to do more to ensure COVID vaccines are made available as part of a coordinated, multilateral response via the global COVAX facility established last year. Uncoordinated bilateral deals, while wellintentioned, have made this more difficult and resulted in a situation where, at the start of this month,  countries had still not received any vaccines at all. Working through established multilateral systems like COVAX remains the best way to ensure equitable access to the current supply. In addition, it is imperative that we increase global supply. WHO Director General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus has called on vaccine producing countries to accelerate technology transfer, either through voluntary licensing, the sharing of licenses through the COVID technology access pool, or by waiving intellectual property rights through a World Trade Organization agreement. We welcome recent comments by Chinese manufacturers that they are undertaking efforts toward technology transfer in other countries and encourage rapid acceleration of these commitments to expand local supply. Today we take a moment to recognize an important advance in the development of Chinas global vaccine contributions. Tomorrow, we redouble our efforts to stamp out the virus at home and abroad, by working collectively to ensure equitable access to these lifesaving vaccines. One vaccine has received EUL, but we know that there are more than  additional COVID vaccines in advanced development in China. Todays milestone achievement should spur other manufacturers to pursue this route and add to the global vaccine arsenal. It should also encourage an even greater contribution from China to global supply and vaccine equity. The author is WHO Representative to China.