Turkish physicians hail high efficacy of Chinas Sinovac vaccine
2021-05-10 10:39
A woman receives the COVID vaccine in Ankara, Turkey, on February , . PhotoXinhua    ISTANBUL  It was one of the busiest days in a pandemic hospital in Istanbul, with hundreds of people waiting at COVID vaccination rooms and on the benches in the garden for their appointments. Feriha Oz Emergency Hospital, established last year and with a capacity of , beds on the Asian side of the city, has never seen such a crowd since the nationwide inoculation drive started in January, according to Mehtap Karaca Demiray, a nurse in charge of the vaccination operation. Today, we have more than , appointments, Demiray told Xinhua on Thursday. We started at  in the morning, and we will finish at midnight. Turkey began its drive with Chinas Sinovac vaccine on Jan. , with priority given to health care professionals and the elderly. Until the beginning of April, the country solely used Sinovacs CoronaVac jabs. It later included the PfizerBioNTech vaccine in the program and will add Russias Sputnik V in the coming days. Twentyfive million vaccines have been administered in the country so far. Turkish doctors agree that they now have enough data in the field to review the efficacy of CoronaVac more precisely. Based on our field observations, we can say that the Sinovac vaccine prevents deaths and intensive care hospitalization  percent, Nurettin Yiyit, chief physician of the hospital, told Xinhua, referring to the general situation in the country. The phase studies had already proved its efficacy, but our field notes are even better, he continued while inspecting the ongoing vaccinations. Yiyit also runs the Sancaktepe Ilhan Varank Training and Research Hospital. Speaking about the situation in his two hospitals, he said around , health workers received their second doses in February. Since then, only  COVID cases were reported among them, with no hospitalizations and fatalities. Protection from the jabs became more apparent during the third peak of the pandemic, which began in March. The daily infection number exceeded the threshold of , across the country, and the government had to declare a full lockdown until May  to curb the rising cases. Yiyit noted that Turkey entered the new wave of COVID after vaccinating more than  percent of healthcare professionals and those aged  and over with the Sinovac vaccine. The average age among the hospitalizations and fatalities across the country fell below , he added, highlighting the high number of infections among the unvaccinated group. This enhanced our fighting power and strengthened our hands, especially during the transition period of patients to intensive care, he said, noting that the younger group can nonetheless better fight the disease. Guner Sonmez, a radiology doctor at Faculty of Medicine of the Istanbulbased Uskudar University, recently told local media that before the vaccinations, several healthcare workers were dying from the coronavirus each day. But after they were vaccinated, these deaths stopped, Sonmez was quoted as saying by the Milliyet daily. The latest data revealed that the rate of healthcare workers among hospitalized COVID patients decreased from . percent to . percent in the country, according to media reports. Ankarabased Hacettepe University announced earlier that CoronaVac has an efficacy rate of . percent based on third phase trials in the country. For Yiyit, more and more people in Turkey are demanding Sinovacs inactivated vaccine given their familiarity with these kinds of inactive jabs from their childhood. Our goal is to vaccinate all citizens over  years old this summer, Yiyit added. If we can achieve this, we plan to be able to overcome the next peaks more comfortably.