Cubas mass vaccination campaign against COVID to start in Havana with homegrown vaccines
2021-05-10 09:42
A nurse shows a dose of the Soberana COVID vaccine to be used in a volunteer as part of Phase III trials of the experimental Cuban vaccine candidate in Havana, Cuba, March , . PhotoAgencies    HAVANA  Nearly . million people from the Cuban capital Havana will receive doses of the homegrown COVID vaccine candidates as part of an intervention study starting on Wednesday, according to local newspaper Tribuna de La Habana. Clara Zamora, a resident of Havanas Camilo Cienfuegos district, is looking forward to receiving the first dose of Abdala COVID vaccine candidate in the coming days. I very much trust in the expertise of Cuban scientists and doctors, the yearold said. I have no doubt the mass vaccination rollout will help the island contain the spread of the virus. The government confirmed on Sunday that mass vaccinations will begin Wednesday in seven municipalities of Havana and will continue in the second half of May in the provinces of Pinar del Rio, Matanzas, Santiago de Cuba, and the Special Municipality of Isla de la Juventud. It came as the island nation registered on Sunday , new COVID infections and ten more deaths related to the virus in the past  hours, with the totals standing at , and , respectively. Francisco Duran, national director of hygiene and epidemiology at the Cuban Ministry of Public Health, is confident that the mass vaccination rollout will help decrease COVID infection rates across the country. We will be able to go through this difficult situation working together, with the participation of people and the mass vaccination drive, he said, adding new COVID variants circulating on the island are deadlier and more contagious. Currently, Phase III clinical trials for Cuban COVID vaccine candidates Soberana  and Abdala are underway, as well as intervention studies involving frontline workers from Havana and the eastern provinces of Santiago de Cuba, Guantanamo and Granma. In the coming weeks, COVID vaccine manufacturers in the Caribbean nation could also apply for emergency use authorization from Cubas Center for State Control of Medicines, Equipment and Medical Devices, according to local authorities. During a televised address, Cuban Minister of Public Health Jose Angel Portal Miranda said that the island expects to immunize more than  percent of its population against COVID by August. The key to success is to prevent the population from getting sick. Prevention is the way we must keep on doing our best, he said. Cuba, home to over  million people, has adopted partial lockdown measures to confront its sharpest rise in new COVID infections and deaths since the start of the pandemic in March . Amid the tightened US embargo against the island, Cuba is now working on the development of five COVID vaccine candidates, namely Soberana , Soberana , Soberana Plus, Mambisa and Abdala. Local biopharmaceutical authorities expect to immunize the countrys entire population with domestically manufactured COVID vaccines by the end of the year.