European leaders postpone decision on patent waiver of COVID vaccines
2021-05-09 07:52
FILE PHOTO Vial labelled AstraZeneca coronavirus disease COVID vaccine placed on displayed EU flag is seen in this illustration picture taken March , . PhotoAgencies    LISBON  President of the European Commission Ursula von der Leyen said on Saturday at the end of the social summit of the European Union EU held in the Portuguese city of Porto that leaders of the EU countries understand that there are more pressing issues than patent waiver on vaccines against COVID. Speaking to journalists, von der Leyen said this topic is important, but will be discussed in the long term, not in the short or medium term. According to her, Europe should not lose sight of the main urgencies, which are production of vaccines as soon as possible and how they will be distributed in a fair and equitable way. The EU executive stressed that the European Union is the pharmacy of the world. Up to today,  million doses of vaccines have been produced in the European Union. And  percent of them   million doses  have been exported to  different countries in the world. So we invite others to do the same, she added. According to her, this is the best way, in the short term, to address bottlenecks and lack of vaccines worldwide. We have now delivered over  million doses to the European people. So we are on track to achieve our objective of enough doses being delivered in July to vaccinate  percent of the European adult population. Close to  million Europeans now have already received a first shot of the vaccine, thats over  percent of the EU population, she noted. She also announced that the EU has concluded the negotiations with BioNTechPfizer for a new contract which secures . billion doses of vaccines through . Von der Leyen was glad to report that the legal and the technical work on the EU travel certificate  the vaccination certificate  is on track for the system to be operational in June. The U.S. on Wednesday agreed to support waiving IP restrictions on COVID vaccines at the World Trade Organization WTO. French President Emmanuel Macron said during the social summit that he is available to debate the proposal, but that this is not the solution to increase the speed of vaccination. Italian Prime Minister Mario Draghi said on Saturday that the U.S. proposal to suspend patents on COVID vaccines will not guarantee an increase in the supply of vaccines. Portuguese Prime Minister Antonio Costa said the EU has been exemplary in its contribution to the COVAX mechanism, which helps the poorest countries to have access to vaccines. At the European Council, we are all aware that no one will be protected until there is a global immunization. EU member states have been contributing to support the countries most in need, he said at the end of the twoday social summit. Twentyfour of the  EU heads of state and government attended the twoday meeting to set the blocs social agenda for the next decade. The summit was hosted by the Portuguese Presidency of the Council of the EU.