Crunch time for workers to get shots in New York
2021-11-02 09:07
Municipal workers protest against the COVID vaccine mandate in New York City on Oct .ED JONESAFP    New York City is bracing for a tense week ahead as a COVID vaccine mandate for municipal workers went into effect on Monday. Mayor Bill de Blasio said  in  municipal workers in the city have gotten at least one COVID vaccine. He tweeted late on Saturday that  percent of city workers had received at least one shot, compared with  percent as of Friday. Under the city mandate, those who have not received at least one vaccine dose will be put on unpaid leave starting from Monday, raising the possibility of shortages of police, fire and emergency medical services. The city has more than , employees. The New York Police Department, or NYPD, which employs approximately , officers and , civilian employees, reported an  percent vaccination rate as of Sunday morning. The Fire Department of New York, or FDNY, said on Sunday afternoon that  percent of its employees were vaccinated percent of firefighters,  percent of emergency medical technicians and  percent of civilian employees. More than , city workers, including police officers and firefighters, will be forced to stay home on Monday when the mayors vaccine mandate goes into effect, reported the New York Post. That includes more than , police officers, , FDNY employees and nearly , sanitation workers. Staffing shortages forced the department to close  fire companies in all five boroughs on Saturday, reported the Post, adding that one insider said hundreds of firefighters angered over the mandate were using medical leave to stay home. As of  this morning,  FDNY stations, including five in my district, have closed due to Mayor de Blasios decision to lock unvaccinated firefighters out of work, said Nicole Malliotakis, a US representative and Staten Island Republican, on Saturday. Fire Commissioner Daniel Nigro denied reports that some firehouses had closed. Creating danger The department has not closed any firehouses, said Nigro in a statement on Sunday. Irresponsible bogus sick leave by some of our members is creating a danger for New Yorkers and their fellow firefighters. They need to return to work or risk the consequences of their actions. Andrew Ansbro, FDNY Firefighters Association president, told WABC Radio that he does not have any knowledge of a sickout. I have had members that have received the vaccination say they are having flulike symptoms, and theyve had to go sick. The department is allowing people to have a couple days off after they get the vaccination. The FDNY confirmed late on Sunday that , firefighters were on medical leave, NBC reported. De Blasio said Sanitation Department crews will now have hour shifts, as opposed to the usual eight hours, and start working on Sundays to ensure that garbage does not pile up. The mandate has also become an issue in Tuesdays mayoral election. Democratic mayoral frontrunner Eric Adams has not said whether he would maintain the vaccine mandate if elected.