Indonesia wary of breaking the fast migrants amid travel ban
2021-05-07 17:47
People ride motorcycles on the first day of a national travel ban as Indonesia halts sea, land, air, and rail travel from May  to  for theIdul Fitri celebrations in an effort to prevent a largescale transmission of the coronavirus disease COVID pandemic in Bandung, West Java Province, Indonesia May , . PhotoAgencies    Indonesias celebration of this years Ramadan and the Idul Fitri holiday that falls on May  have sparked fears that the events may have a negative effect on the countrys achievements in fighting the pandemic, despite a travel ban that went into effect on May . Traditionally, the Indonesian way to mark the festival of Idul Fitri, or breaking the fast, is mudik or returning home, which would constitute one of the worlds biggest migrations in this country, the largest Islamic nation on Earth, with  million people on about , islands. So far the authorities have managed to flatten the curve of coronavirus infections, thanks to restrictive policies and the rollout of COVID vaccinations. President Joko Widodo and other officials have repeatedly reminded the nation over the past weeks about the possibility of a COVID tsunami hitting Indonesia like that in India if people insist on going to their hometowns to celebrate Idul Fitri and neglect anticoronavirus restrictions. The government has issued special rules to ban Idul Fitri holiday travel between May , and restrict peoples movements on April May  and May . Only people with special reasons supported by specially issued documents will be allowed to leave. Special rules to restrict Idul Fitri prayer gatherings are introduced at mosques and related parades. However, many selfemployed workers had already left for their hometowns before the ban. Others heading home have also tried to evade travel ban by secondary road networks and even along the socalled mouse pathways. On the first day of the travel ban on May , long queues of private cars were seen at toll road gates outside Jakarta, making traffic officers busy at checkpoints, turning back those vehicles with drivers and passengers failing to produce official special permission documents. It is estimated that . million people would still insist on going home for this years Idul Fitri. The number is still quite big, the president told a specially held virtual national conference with regional administrators earlier. The majority of those migrants are from large cities on the islands of Java and Sumatra. At least , military and police members and others from related offices have been deployed on sites like highway checkpoints, rest areas, arrival gates as well the socalled mouse pathways. We are making all necessary preparations to follow the central governments instruction. We are still holding meetings with other district heads and with village heads, said a Bantul district official in the central Java province of Yogyakarta. Since the country implemented microscale public activity restrictions from Feb , a downtrend curve of infections was reported up to early May, according to data at the ministry of health. For example, there were , newly confirmed cases on March  , cases on April  and  on May . On a larger scale, however, accumulated active cases had continued to rise since March of last year when first infections were detected, with analysts suspecting undiscovered and underrecorded infections. President Widodo has asked the Indonesian people not to feel complacent in the downtrend number of cases over the past several months. He pointed to Indias negligence after it experienced an astonishingly drastic drop in its COVID cases, which has led the country to a catastrophe. Fear of case resurgence has further increased after the country recently detected more transmissible variants which had been first found in India and South Africa. On May , five more provinces implemented microscale restrictions, bringing the total engaged to  among the countrys  provinces. The national vaccine rollout stared in March has reached all provinces including the countrys most remote regions. By late April, as many as . million vaccines have reached all provinces, Bambang Heriyanto, Bio Farma spokesperson, said in a press release. So far, the country has received in several batches a total of . million doses of vaccines, including . million doses of the Sinovac product. The remaining are Sinopharm and Astrazeneca vaccines, with others like Russias Sputnik in the pipeline. Already inoculated so far were mostly priority groups of people like health workers, public service workers, military and security personnel, community leaders as well as citizens aged  years and above. In Agats regency in Papua, the countrys most eastern province, most such people have gotten their second shot. Very soon, people from villages will get a first shot. Registration is conducted offline and online, Catholic pastor Lucius Joko said. The local Catholic Church cooperates closely with the Agats health office to persuade locals to get vaccinated. In Kei Kecil, an island with , inhabitants in southeastern Moluccas, people are quite aware of the coronavirus and vaccinations. Irma Hutaumi, a social worker from a religious order, said some locals had initially refused inoculation after a suspected COVID patient died at hospital, but the death was later found to be due to other factors. The writer is a freelance journalist for China Daily.