Riding out the storm
2021-05-07 13:26
Global hospitality businesses are resetting their operations while biting the bullet under the weight of the pandemic. Zeng Xinlan reports from Hong Kong.       Hotels in countries that are particularly reliant on tourism revenue are scrambling to navigate out of the financial storm as inbound travelers dry up. Mass public vaccination programs rolled out around the world may offer a ray of hope, but are hotel operators confident of returning to their heyday? The COVID hit last year was unprecedented, said Suphajee Suthumpun, group CEO of Bangkokbased Dusit International, one of Thailands oldest and biggest multinational hospitality companies. Weve never seen anything like this. The group lost . billion baht US. million in  as the pandemic grounded airlines and travelers around the globe. Dusit International, the public brand of Dusit Thani Public Co, operated Bangkoks iconic Dusit Thani Hotel until , when it was demolished to make way for the companys first brandedresidence complex, scheduled to open in . Suphajee said that even with the loss, Dusit probably suffered less than some hospitalityfocused companies. Although our loss is quite big, I think were still better off than the overall industry, she said. Worst days over The companys panacea includes exercising strict cost control, launching programs to boost revenue and diversifying risk. The measures paid off, with the groups revenue for the whole of last year shrinking by  percent compared with an overall  percent decline for Thailands hospitality industry. Suphajee said she believes the worst days have passed. We hit rock bottom last year. Now, with the vaccination programs and concerted efforts in every country, were confident that tourism will gradually pick up from the third and fourth quarters this year. However, itll be a long ride for the industry to return to normal, Suphajee said. I dont think we can be back on track this year or next. Itll probably take about three years for the business to hit the same level of . By that time, many businesses could have changed. Looking at the hospitality landscape in the postpandemic era, Suphajee sees three main trends that could make waves the integration of hospitality and wellness, or wellbeing the focus on sustainability and localized and personalized experience. The number of tourists might not be the same as that prior to the pandemic, but if we can adapt ourselves to these trends, the impact would be less, she said. Therefore, we can recover from the revenue standpoint better than waiting for a big return of travelers. The hotelier said that integrating hotel accommodation with tailormade services and sustaining them will be the biggest opportunities for the hospitality sector. Customers want convenience, personalized experiences and value for money. If we can deliver all these, business will be within our grasp. Suphajee is worried, though, that a shrinking demand for exhibitions poses a challenge for the hospitality industry as many businesses have opted for online sourcing. At least, for the next two to three years, theyll be using a different approach. When they intend to hold exhibitions, theyll probably go for a hybrid online and physical model. Hurdle of travel bubble Another challenge is the lack of global standards in travel restrictions as different regulations may be imposed on international travel by various governments. Quite a lot of vaccines have been rolled out in many countries. But they arent really of the same standard, said Suphajee. Its still a challenge and we need to set certain standards in terms of opening up international travel again. Setting standards is vital in launching travel bubbles, she said. Travel bubbles will be among different countries, and they usually use different vaccines. The issue is whether we can have one standard thats acceptable to all travelers. The Tourism Authority of Thailand has given the nod to a travel bubble program called Sandbox to be implemented starting July . It will allow tourists from certain countries or cities to enter Thailand without having to be quarantined. Initially, the program will be enacted on the resort island of Phuket, while other key tourismdependent spots in the country will follow suit, including Chiang Mai, Pattaya, Krabi and Surat Thani province. Dusit International is set to unveil its first brandedresidences development on the site of its first luxury Dusit Thani Hotel in Bangkok, in collaboration with Thai retail giant Central Pattana. The US. billion, mixeduse project will have residences, hospitality facilities, and office and retail space. The first phase of the international launch of Dusit Central Park was held in Hong Kong by US commercial realestate services chain CBRE Group. The project is located on the site of the former Dusit Thani Hotel in Bangkoks financial and commercial district. Dusit Central Park is envisioned as a lifestyle destination for the people of Bangkok, according to the companys website. Dusit Thani Public Co, branded as Dusit International, was founded in . Its businesses span hotel management, franchising and education. Dusits portfolio includes  properties operating under six brands in  countries, including China, where the group currently has  hotels, with more than  other properties in the pipeline.