Xi pledges full support for UN values
2021-05-07 07:22
The United Nations logo is seen on a window in an empty hallway at United Nations headquarters in New York on September , . PhotoAgencies    President also hails strong ties with Turkmenistan, Cuba and San Marino China will continue to support the United Nations and uphold real multilateralism underpinned by the UN Charter and its principles and purposes, as well as international law, President Xi Jinping said on Thursday. Xi made the remark in a telephone conversation with UN SecretaryGeneral Antonio Guterres. He said the world is calling for real multilateralism, which is inseparable from the UN, international law and teamwork among countries. All countries should act in line with the UN Charter and its principles and purposes, rather than resorting to practicing unilateralism and hegemony or creating small circles in the name of multilateralism to make ideological confrontations, Xi said. As fighting the COVID pandemic still remains the top priority for the international community, Xi said global cooperation is needed instead of playing political games, and major countries should take the lead in providing more public goods. China has decided to provide vaccines to UN peacekeeping missions and the International Olympic Committee, and will make further efforts to overcome the vaccine divide, he said. Xi also pledged that China will make utmost efforts and contributions to cope with climate change and continue to actively advance international cooperation based on the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities. He noted that Chinas Belt and Road Initiative will advance SouthSouth cooperation to provide assistance to developing countries. China will work with the UN to implement the  Agenda for Sustainable Development, he added. Guterres highly commended Chinas firm position in upholding multilateralism and supporting the UN. He appreciated Chinas steps to deal with climate change as well as its contributions to promoting international cooperation on the pandemic and global economic recovery. Guterres said he agreed with Xi on upholding real multilateralism and that the UN looks forward to developing closer cooperation with China to bring their ties to a new height. In a separate telephone conversation with Turkmen President Gurbanguly Berdimuhamedow on Thursday, Xi called for strengthening cooperation with Turkmenistan in fields such as energy and vaccines, saying that China stands ready to share the opportunities of the vast Chinese market with the Central Asian country. Berdimuhamedow hailed bilateral ties and appreciated Chinas positive efforts to uphold world peace and stability and promote the common development and prosperity of all nations. Xi spoke by phone on Thursday with Miguel DiazCanel, Cuban president and the first secretary of the Communist Party of Cuba Central Committee. In addition, Xi exchanged congratulatory messages on Thursday with Gian Carlo Venturini and Marco Nicolini, captains regent of San Marino, on the th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic ties between the two countries. Xi said that ChinaSan Marino relations have developed well over the past halfcentury, setting a good example of mutual respect, equality and mutual benefit between countries with different systems and cultures.