Dow ends at record high after upbeat jobless claims report
2021-05-07 04:45
PhotoAgencies    May   The Dow Jones Industrial Average closed at a record high on Thursday, bolstered by an upbeat weekly jobless claims report, while vaccine makers dipped after U.S. President Joe Biden backed plans to waive patents on COVID shots. Lifted by Apple Inc, the SP  rose after a Labor Department report showed initial claims for state unemployment benefits totaled a seasonally adjusted , for the week ended May , compared with , in the prior week. Investors were awaiting a more comprehensive nonfarm payrolls report on Friday for clues on the strength of the labor market and potentially the U.S. Federal Reserves stance on monetary policy. Investors are encouraged by the lowinterest rates and the stimulus that the government is putting into the economy. Were also seeing substantial increases in economic projections and earnings forecasts, said Sam Stovall, chief investment strategist at CFRA Research. Pharmaceutical companies dropped after the White House said Biden made the decision to back a proposed waiver for COVID vaccine intellectual property rights. Shares in Pfizer Inc and Moderna Inc fell  or more. Johnson  Johnson and Novavax Inc ended higher after spending much of the day in negative territory. The Nasdaq biotechnology index dropped .. Modernas shares cut some losses after it said countries around the globe would continue buying its COVID vaccine for years even if patents on the shots are waived. The SP  financials index was the top performer among the  sectors, gaining .. One sector we are seeing a lot of opportunities in is the financial sector. We see it as one that should benefit from higher interest rates and a stronger economic recovery, said Ann Guntli, portfolio manager at Chicagobased RMB Capital. Microsoft Corp, Apple, Facebook and Amazon.com Inc rose more than . The Dow Jones Industrial Average rose . to end at ,. points, while the SP  gained . to ,.. The Nasdaq Composite climbed . to ,.. In extended trade, Square rose  after the mobile payments company announced a  jump in quarterly total net revenue. During the trading session, Costco Wholesale jumped . after the retailer said late on Wednesday that its April sales surged .. That rally helped push the SP  consumers staple index higher. Regeneron Pharmaceuticals Inc rose . after the drugmaker reported a betterthanexpected quarterly profit and said it expected demand for its COVID antibody therapy to hold up. Uber Technologies Inc tumbled . after it signaled it would pay drivers more to get cars back on the road as the pandemic recedes, and disclosed a  million charge to provide UK drivers with benefits. Advancing issues outnumbered declining ones on the NYSE by a .to ratio on Nasdaq, a .to ratio favored decliners. The SP  posted  new week highs and no new lows the Nasdaq Composite recorded  new highs and  new lows. Volume on U.S. exchanges was  billion shares, compared with the  billion average for the full session over the last  trading days. Reuters