Indias COVID tally crosses  mln with over , new cases
2021-05-06 16:07
Healthcare workers and relatives carry a woman from an ambulance for treatment at a COVID care facility, amidst the spread of the coronavirus disease COVID in Mumbai, India, May , . PhotoAgencies    NEW DELHI  Indias COVID tally surpassed  million on Thursday as , new cases were registered across the country in the past  hours, the health ministry said. This is the second time this month that over , cases have been registered in a single day. Besides, as many as , deaths, maximum so far, took place in the country since Wednesday morning, taking the total death toll to ,, added the health ministry. There are still ,, active cases in the country, with an increase of , active cases through Wednesday. A total of ,, people have been cured and discharged from hospitals so far across the country. The COVID figures continue to peak in the country every day, as the federal government has ruled out a complete lockdown to contain the worsening situation. Though some states have imposed night curfews or partial lockdowns. Only on Wednesday Principal Scientific Advisor to Indias Federal Government K. Vijay Raghavan stated that a third COVID wave was inevitable in the country. Delhi has been put under a third successive lockdown till May . While some school examinations stand cancelled, others have been postponed in the wake of COVID situation. The number of daily active cases has been on the rise over the past few weeks. In January the number of daily cases in the country had come down to below,. India kick off the nationwide vaccination drive was kicked off on Jan. . So far over  million vaccination doses have been administered to the people across the country. Online registration began last Wednesday for vaccinating people aged above . This is the third phase of COVID vaccination, which began on May . Meanwhile, the Indian government has ramped up COVID testing facilities across the country, as over  million tests have been conducted so far. As many as ,, tests were conducted till Wednesday, out of which ,, tests were conducted on Wednesday alone, said the latest data issued by the Indian Council of Medical Research ICMR on Thursday. The national capital Delhi, which has been one of the most COVID affected places in the country, witnessed , new cases and  deaths through Wednesday. So far as many as , people have died in the national capital due to COVID, confirmed the Delhis health department. Two types of vaccines  Covishield and Covaxin  are being administered to the people in India. India received its first doses of Sputnik V, the Russianmade vaccine, on Saturday.