Canada OKs Pfizer vaccine for adolescents
2021-05-06 16:07
A healthcare worker prepares a dose of the PfizerBioNTech coronavirus disease COVID vaccine, which was authorized by Canada to be used for children aged  to , at Woodbine Racetrack popup vaccine clinic in Toronto, Ontario, Canada, May , . PhotoAgencies    OTTAWA  Canada announced its approval of administering the PfizerBioNTech COVID vaccine to children ages  to  on Wednesday. After completing a thorough and independent scientific review of the evidence, the department determined that this vaccine is safe and effective when used in this younger age group, said Health Canadas Chief Medical Advisor Supriya Sharma at a press conference on Wednesday. Canada became the first country in the world to have okayed the twodose Pfizer vaccine shots to the younger age group. The Canadian government authorized the vaccine for use in individuals  years of age and older last December. Health Canada based its decision on data from Phase  clinical trial in participants aged  to  years old. The trial enrolled , adolescents  to  years of age in the United States. All participants in the trial will continue to be monitored for longterm protection and safety for an additional two years after their second dose. After completing a thorough and independent scientific review of the evidence, the department determined that this vaccine is safe and effective when used in this younger age group, said Sharma. While younger people are less likely to experience serious cases of COVID, having access to a safe and effective vaccine will help control the diseases spread to their family and friends, some of whom may be at higher risk of complications, Sharma said. The most commonly reported side effects were temporary and mild, like a sore arm, chills or fever. Usually, the vaccine submission review process can take much longer, but because of an emergency order, Health Canada has been able to expedite the authorization process. Health Canada has published a series of documents detailing its decision and a summary of the evidence reviewed. PfizerBioNTech is required to continue providing Health Canada with ongoing safety and efficacy information as the product is being used in real world settings. With nearly  million doses sent to Canada to date, Pfizer has committed to sending more than  million doses each week, until end of June. Asked what this might mean for schools to be able to reopen, Sharma said that will depend on how and when provinces and territories in Canada decide to administer these shots to younger people. As of Wednesday noon, Canada reported a cumulative total of ,, COVID cases, including , deaths and , variants, according to CTV.