Preferential policies draw talent from home and abroad
2021-05-06 09:05
Foreign businesspeople visit a job fair held last year in Beijings Zhongguancun area, where a large number of colleges and much highend talent are clustered. REN CHAOXINHUA    Beijing has recently implemented a number of preferential policies for domestic and foreign investors in the service industry and established a free trade zone. As such, the capital is welcoming companies, partners and international institutions from all over the world to enjoy the benefits of its development. Beijings further openingup of the service sector and the establishment of the FTZ have brought crucial opportunities that will drive the citys highquality development, said Liu Yinchun, deputy secretarygeneral of the municipal government. We welcome international organizations, multinational corporations and other enterprises to bring projects to Beijing for winwin cooperation and embrace a better future together. In , the State Council, Chinas Cabinet, approved plans for the national service industry to open a demonstration zone in Beijing. The zone offers preferential policies for foreign investors in sectors such as science, culture, entertainment, finance, tourism and healthcare. In September, the central government announced it had approved the Beijing FTZ. By April ,  of the  tasks approved by the State Council related to the two zones had been implemented, according to the city government. Meanwhile, more than , new projects have started in the capital and are benefiting from the policies. Up to . percent of the tasks, including preferential policies for investors, have been completed. Many of the measures are being seen in the country for the first time, said Yan Ligang, director of the Beijing Bureau of Commerce. For example, tax reductions for certain qualified enterprises, simplified approval procedures for hightech companies and a transfer platform for private equity investment are among the first such policies in China, he said. In the future, Beijing will be more open to foreign capital and data transmission. It will also provide preferential tax policies to create a better business climate, Yan said. More companies will benefit from the development of the two zones, he added. Benefits In recent years, Beijing has rolled out a number of measures to further open its financial market, thereby attracting a large number of foreigninvested companies. A growing number of wellknown foreign financial institutions, including Visa, MasterCard and SWIFT, have opened branches in the city. According to the Beijing Municipal Government, Finance Street in Xicheng district and the Lize Financial Business District in Fengtai district will be the major demonstration zones for the openingup of the service sector. Meanwhile, efforts will be stepped up to support innovation in the fintech industry. The Beijing FTZ will cover . square kilometers and will include dedicated areas for science and technological innovation, international business services and highend industries. They will be located in the Zhongguancun area, the central business district and the Beijing Economic and Technological Development Area. Zhongguancun, where a large number of colleges and much highend talent are clustered, will focus on science and technological innovation. In March, hundreds of representatives of international organizations and multinational corporations visited the area and had discussions with local officials. They saw new technologies such as selfdriving cars, as well as intelligent voicecontrol and digital payment technology, displayed in the area. The companies also enjoy multiple preferential policies to help the promotion of rapid growth. The openingup of the service sector has been conducted according to different industries, while policies for the FTZ are being carried out according to regions to create clusters of companies, said Wang Hao, Party chief of Beijings Chaoyang district. He said the combination of the two dimensions will provide many new opportunities. The CBD in Chaoyang, one of the most international areas, is home to the headquarters of many foreign companies and it has played a crucial role in the FTZs international commerce services. The CBDs investment service center came into use on Jan , combining the functions of investment introduction and services related to government affairs. So far, the center has helped  companies, including Canon, establish offices in the area. To better serve overseas talent, the CBD has also set up a onestop service center to help foreign nationals with documentation issues, including work permits, social insurance and crossnational marriages. The center, which provides  services, opened on Oct . Yu Enyuan, founder of Neolix, a startup that makes driverless delivery vans and is located in the Beijing Economic and Technological Development Area, said he was surprised that the policies could be implemented so quickly. It has encouraged us to accelerate our technological innovation, he said. The area, in southern Beijing, focuses on highend manufacturing. As such, it has encouraged many companies from home and abroad to establish factories. The local government has also been providing a butler service for companies to raise efficiency. Sun Guohua, president of integrated circuit producer UPrecision, said that despite the COVID epidemic the companys new project has developed quickly. Thats mainly thanks to the excellent services provided by the area. Local authorities have organized full nucleic acid testing for employees and seven sessions of group vaccinations, which have ensured the projects progress.