India reports over , new cases, tally at ,,
2021-05-05 13:33
Pranav Mishra, , reacts next to the body of his mother Mamta Mishra, , who died from the coronavirus disease COVID, before her cremation at a crematorium ground in New Delhi, India, May , . REUTERSDanish Siddiqui    NEW DELHI  Indias COVID tally reached ,, on Wednesday with as many as , new cases registered during the past  hours, confirmed the federal health ministry. Besides, , deaths were also reported, taking the death toll to ,. There are still a total of ,, active cases in the country, with an increase of , active cases through Tuesday, as ,, people have been cured and discharged from hospitals so far across the country. The COVID figures continue to peak in the country every day. The federal government has ruled out imposing a complete lockdown to contain the worsening situation though some states have imposed night curfews or partial lockdowns. Delhi has been put under a third successive lockdown till May . While some school examinations are cancelled, others have been postponed in the wake of COVID situation. The number of daily active cases has been on the rise over the past few weeks. In January the number of daily cases in the country had come down to below ,. As many as , new cases were reported between January , which was the lowest in the previous  days. Prior to that the lowest number of daily new cases were , registered on June , . January  was a crucial day in Indias fight against the pandemic as the nationwide vaccination drive was kicked off during the day. So far over  million vaccination doses ,, have been administered to the people across the country. Online registration began last Wednesday for vaccinating people aged above . This is the third phase of COVID vaccination, which began on Saturday. Meanwhile, the federal government has ramped up COVID testing facilities across the country, even as over  million tests have been conducted so far. As many as ,, tests were conducted till Tuesday, out of which ,, tests were conducted on Tuesday alone, said the latest data issued by the Indian Council of Medical Research ICMR on Wednesday. The national capital Delhi, which has been one of the most COVID affected places in the country, witnessed , new cases and  deaths through Tuesday. So far as many as , people have died in the national capital due to COVID, confirmed Delhis health department. Two types of vaccines are being administered in India. While the Covishield vaccine, made by the Serum Institute of India SII, was supplied to all states, the Covaxin vaccine, made by the Bharat Biotech International Limited, was supplied to only  states. Meanwhile, India received its first doses of SputnikV, the Russianmade vaccine, on Saturday.