Cash, drinks become vaccine incentives in US
2021-05-05 11:36
A teenager receives a dose of the Covid vaccine during an event to promote and encourage residents to go and get their vaccines on April ,  in Detroit, Michigan. Matthew HatcherGetty ImagesAFP    Those in the US who are hesitant to get a COVID vaccine are being offered a host of incentives, including cash, free drinks and gift cards by states and cities. Connecticut announced that any vaccinated resident is eligible for a free alcoholic or nonalcoholic drink if they purchase food at participating restaurants between May  and May . Local residents must prove that they have received either one or both doses of a COVID vaccine before they can get the beverage. A statement from Connecticuts tourism office said The Connecticut Restaurant Association is partnering with Governor Lamont and the State of Connecticut to launch the CTDrinksOnUs campaign, where participating Connecticut restaurants will offer complimentary drinks to patrons beginning on May . West Virginia will give any of its residents aged  to  years  in savings bonds if they get vaccinated. In Harris County, Texas, officials have put aside , to fund gift cards to give to residents who take the vaccine, the Houston Chronicle reported. In Chicago, city officials are planning to launch two programs to encourage people to get vaccinated that would give them access to special summer events or offer discounts at barber shops. Officials in Detroit are offering a  prepaid debit card to anyone who takes another person to get vaccinated. A March  PBS NewsHour NPR Marist poll showed that  percent of Republicans dont plan to get vaccinated. Jonathan Berman, a scientist, science educator, and author of the book Antivaxxers, How to Challenge a Misinformed Movement, said that people opposed to vaccines tend to remain steadfast in their refusal to get vaccinated. But the vaccinehesitant can be persuaded. Vaccinehesitant people usually end up getting vaccinated but may need encouragement or to be reassured. The best way to convince them would be for governments and manufacturers to launch a vaccineconfidence project to work in communities to build confidence, he told China Daily. Public health experts say that many factors influence people to remain unvaccinated, including religious and cultural reasons. Dr Shikha Jain, an assistant professor of medicine at the University of Illinois in Chicago and cofounder of IMPACT, a group that works to improve the equitable distribution of vaccines, said that some people also dont have easy access to smartphones or computers to book an appointment. Unfortunately, the technology divide has resulted in many of the individuals in the communities that have been most impacted by COVID not being able to access vaccines, he told China Daily.