EU gears up to welcome back tourists
2021-05-05 08:26
Tourists from Germany arrive at Palma de Mallorca Airport following Berlins lifted quarantine requirement for travellers returning from the Balearic Islands amid the coronavirus disease COVID pandemic, Palma de Mallorca, Spain on March , . PhotoAgencies    Member states meeting in hope to sign off on plan to open up to jabbed visitors The European Unions  member states were on Tuesday due to begin discussing a proposal to ease coronavirus travel restrictions to the region in an effort to resuscitate the blocs tourism sector and broader economy. A proposal toward this aim  loosening the curbs on nonessential travel  had been put forward by the European Commission on Monday. In drumming up support for the move, Commission President Ursula von der Leyen tweeted on Monday that its time to revive the EUs tourism industry and to safely rekindle crossborder friendships. We propose to welcome again vaccinated visitors  those from countries with a good health situation, she wrote. She stressed that if virus variants emerge, the EU has to act fast, citing the proposed EU emergency brake mechanism. The proposal announced on Monday, being discussed on Tuesday and Wednesday by representatives from the member states, would allow travelers from countries with a good epidemiological situation to enter. They will have to prove that they have had the last recommended dose of an EUauthorized vaccine approved by the European Medicines Agency, or EMA, at least  days prior to arrival, the European Commission said in a news release. Children who have not been able to receive a jab should be able to travel with their parents as long as they present a negative test, although further testing might be required on arrival. The commission hopes that member states will adopt the proposal at the end of the month. It also indicated that the list could be expanded to include vaccines approved by the World Health Organization. On Tuesday, the EMA announced that it started a rolling review of a COVID vaccine from Chinas Sinovac Biotec to assess its effectiveness and safety, a first step toward possible approval for use in the bloc. The announcement came a day after a top World Health Organization official said the WHO is set to decide this week whether to approve the Sinovac vaccine, and one from fellow Chinese drugmaker Sinopharm, for emergency use. So far, the EMA has only approved vaccines by the PfizerBioNTech partnership, Moderna, AstraZeneca and Johnson  Johnson. However, vaccine certificates will not exempt travelers from requirements such as presenting a negative test result or undergoing a quarantine that individual EU member states regard as necessary in their own national health policies. The new proposal would raise the infection threshold from  cases per , decided last June to  cases. The bar is set well below the current EU average, which is more than  in a day period. And the move is expected to expand the number of countries allowed. The European Commission has so far only proposed lifting restrictions on nonessential travel to those coming from Australia, New Zealand, Rwanda, Singapore, South Korea and Thailand. Chinese travelers will also be allowed if China reciprocates in allowing EU travelers. The proposal is expected to help the blocs struggling tourism industry to recover after onandoff lockdowns for most of the past year. But its unclear how it will work for travelers from countries such as the United States, which does not issue a national vaccination certificate.