SP , Dow start month on strong footing, growth stocks lag
2021-05-04 04:13
A Wall Street sign is pictured in Manhattan, New York City. PhotoAgencies    May   The SP  and the Dow indexes ended higher on Monday amid a largely upbeat earnings season, while the Nasdaq came under pressure from declines in some highflying growth stocks, as the rotation into cyclical and reopening stocks continued. Economysensitive cyclical SP  sectors such as consumer staples, energy, and materials outperformed sectors housing growth stocks, including technology and communication services,. All of those names that are having outsized gain today are as a result of economic reopening optimism, and people getting out of the house spending money on things, said Michael James, managing director of equity trading at Wedbush Securities. Unofficially, the Dow Jones Industrial Average rose . to end at ,. points, while the SP  gained . to ,.. The Nasdaq Composite dropped ., to ,.. Weve seen a slight change in the pace of value stocks outperforming growth stocks yeartodate, said Rod von Lipsey, managing director at UBS Private Wealth Management. The Nasdaq index fell as megacap technology stocks, including Amazon.com Inc, Alphabet Inc, Facebook Inc and Microsoft Corp, traded lower despite largely upbeat results. The stocks have struggled to maintain the upward trajectory coming into reporting season. Chipmakers also fell, with the Philadelphia SE Semiconductor index down. With more than half of SP  companies having reported so far, profits are now seen rising  in the first quarter, compared with forecasts of  growth at the start of April, according to IBES data from Refinitiv. About  of the companies have come also reported earnings per share ahead of analysts estimates. This is now the fourth straight quarter of earnings just absolutely crushing estimates, said Ross Mayfield, investment strategy analyst at Baird. I think there just continues to be an underestimation of how strong this rally and how strong the economy is rebounding. Strong earnings, improving economic data, fiscal stimulus and the Federal Reserves ultra accommodative stance have supported markets, pushing the SP  and the Nasdaq indexes to record levels last week. U.S. manufacturing activity grew at a slower pace in April, likely constrained by shortages of inputs amid pentup demand due to rising vaccinations and massive fiscal stimulus. The Labor Departments nonfarm payrolls data, slated to be released on Friday, is expected to show a rise in job additions in April. Gap Inc is one of the biggest gainers on SP  on Monday. The largest decliner was Estee Lauder after the cosmetics maker missed analysts estimates for thirdquarter sales. On the Nasdaq  the largest gainer was Moderna Inc , which rose after the drugmaker said it will supply  million doses of its COVID vaccine this year to the global COVAX program. Tesla Inc fell as industry sources told Reuters the electricvehicle maker, under scrutiny in China over safety and customer service complaints, is boosting its engagement with mainland regulators and beefing up its government relations team. TMobile TMUS.O, Uber UBER.K, Lyft LYFT.O, Square SQ, Peloton PTON.O and Pfizer PFE are poised to report results later this week. Reuters