PNG to launch national COVID vaccine rollout to combat rising cases
2021-05-03 17:00
People learn prevention knowledge about COVID at a shopping center in Port Moresby of Papua New Guinea PNG, Sept , . PhotoXinhua    SYDNEY  Papua New Guinea PNG will launch national vaccine rollout on Tuesday to combat rising cases of COVID. Police Commissioner and Controller of the PNG COVID National Pandemic Response David Manning said most of PNGs  provinces would have received their share of the AstraZeneca vaccine, and done their training in preparation for the national rollout scheduled for Wednesday. A total of , people have been listed to be vaccinated in the first phase, including frontline health care workers, border workers, students at health institutions, prison guards, police, defence force personnel and teachers. According to the latest statistics released on Monday, the Pacific island country recorded  new cases from  districts in  provinces in the past  hours until midday Friday, taking the total cases to , and known deaths toll to . The national government also pledged to give more support to provincial governments to cope with the pandemic. We want to empower provinces to partake or tailormake their provincial plans, whether its for COVID or elections or others, in as far as development is concerned, going into the future, said PNG Prime Minister James Marape after a meeting with key officials last Thursday. You are now empowered to step up your own plans and send them to us and we will see how best we can address. If we agreed to those plans, we will do our utmost best to ensure adequate vaccination doses available to those that need to be inoculated, he said. The Prime Minister assured the national government would support to increase provincial hospital capacity by next year in response to addressing COVID issues. We will agree to create minimum  new beds in all our provincial hospitals in as far as Intensive Care Unit ICU facility is concerned that should have oxygen and ventilators attached. He also urged residents in provinces that are not connected to the rest of the country by roads to restrict unnecessary travels into other provinces either by sea or air. This is no ordinary time. Papua New Guineans should not be travelling around if you have no need for traveling around, you just dont need to travel. Stay put where you are, Marape said.