Cambodia inoculates yearolds against COVID with Chinas Sinovac vaccine
2021-11-01 20:29
A staff member transports Chinas Sinovac COVID vaccines at the Phnom Penh International Airport in Phnom Penh, Cambodia, July , . PhotoXinhua    PHNOM PENH  Cambodia on Monday began to vaccinate fiveyearold children with Chinas Sinovac COVID vaccine as the vaccination for the population aged six years and older was completed, Prime Minister Samdech Techo Hun Sen said. Speaking at the campaign launching ceremony held at the Peace Palace in capital Phnom Penh, Hun Sen called on parents or childrens legal guardians to bring their kids for the jab in order to protect their lives from the COVID pandemic. Vaccinations are the key to fighting against COVID, he said. Vaccines reduce infections, hospitalizations and fatalities. Ministry of Health MoHs Secretary of State Or Vandine said fiveyearold children in the Southeast Asian country will receive two doses of the Sinovac vaccine and the gap between the first and second shot is  days. When taking their kids for the jab, parents or legal guardians must bring along a copy of their birth certificates, family record books or passports, she said. RELIEVED PARENTS Sok Mary, a yearold housewife, said she felt relieved after having her fiveyearold daughter vaccinated against COVID. I feel happy that my little girl received her first dose of Chinas Sinovac vaccine today because I had waited for this opportunity for months, she told Xinhua at an inoculation site in the capital city. I totally trust the safety, quality and efficiency of Sinovac vaccine in protecting my life and family from this highly contagious disease. So far, all of my family members have been vaccinated against COVID with the Sinovac vaccine, she added. Vong Vichhai, a yearold car mechanic, said he has been worrying about his little daughters health safety amid COVID. But I have a sense of relief now after she received her first dose of COVID vaccine today, he told Xinhua. Thank China for supplying vaccines to Cambodia and we will never forget your kindness, and thank the Cambodian government for providing vaccines to the people free of charge. Chhay Kimlang, a nurse at a vaccination site in Phnom Penh, said if there were no Chinas vaccine supplies, Cambodia would not have enough vaccines to inoculate its people. A friend in need is a friend indeed, she added. VACCINATION FOR PEOPLE AGED  AND OLDER COMPLETED Hun Sen has announced Cambodias national COVID vaccination campaign for its population aged six years and older was successfully completed more than eight months after it was launched, with China being the major vaccine supplier. As of Oct , Cambodia had vaccinated . percent, or . million of its million population, he said. We have achieved our target about eight months earlier than planned. The country had inoculated  percent of the adult population of  million, . percent of the  age group of nearly . million, he said. We are recovering from the COVID crisis, and social and economic activities in all areas have been gradually reopened, with the adaptation to the new normal, Hun Sen said. Today, schools across the country are reopened. Cambodia recorded  new confirmed cases of COVID on Monday, bringing total tally to ,, the Ministry of Health said, adding six new fatalities from the pandemic were registered, bringing the overall coronavirus death toll to ,. If compared to our population of  million, the infection rate is . percent and the mortality rate is . percent. The rates are relatively low, the prime minister said. But if we compare the number of fatalities and infection cases, its high, up to . percent, so we need to strengthen our treatment capacity, he said.