Moderna plans to make  billion doses in
2021-04-30 10:24
A vial and sryinge are seen in front of a displayed Moderna logo in this illustration taken January , . PhotoAgencies    Moderna announced Thursday it will boost its COVID vaccine capacity by up to  billion doses in , potentially tripling its yearly output, as the company seeks to meet rising global demand. The company also announced that its doses can remain stable for three months when kept in normal refrigeration, making it easier for places lacking the expensive freezers currently needed to store the Moderna vaccine. Moderna said it will ask the Food and Drug Administration FDA to extend the storage time of its vaccine in a regular refrigerator. Currently, the vaccine is only approved for storage in temperatures between  and  Fahrenheit degrees for a month and up to seven months at  F. The company said it also plans to increase supply of the vaccine this year by  million to  billion doses, up from a minimum of  million it had forecast previously. Most of next years doses will go toward vaccinating young children and for booster shots, which are likely to be needed as immunity wanes with time and in the face of new variants. As we follow the rapid spread of SARSCoV variants of concern, we believe that there will continue to be a significant need for our mRNA COVID vaccine and our variant booster candidates into  and , Moderna CEO Stphane Bancel said in a statement. The company said it would increase supply by  percent at its Massachusetts plant, which makes much of the vaccine substance used in shots for the US market. The companys investments also would enable partner Lonza Group AG, which is making a supply for foreign markets, to double its output at a factory in Switzerland that makes vaccine substances. Vaccine output at a third factory in Spain operated by another partner, Laboratorios Farmaceuticos Rovi SA, also would more than double under the plan, Bloomberg reported. We are together convinced that we need more doses, we need to produce more, Lonza Chairman Albert M. Baehny told The Wall Street Journal. We just want to participate effectively in the fight against the pandemic. The increased production from the companyowned and partner factories is expected to ramp up in late  and early , Moderna said. Moderna said it expects its output for  to be a mix of its current authorized vaccine and new shots it is developing to target certain variants. The extra doses would supply the US and other countries, the company said. Modernas vaccine is authorized for use by adults in the US, European Union and numerous other countries. The company expects data soon from a US study of the twodose vaccine in  to yearolds and has begun testing the shots in younger children. Other studies including doses tweaked to better match mutated versions of the coronavirus. The company has been criticized for selling most doses of its vaccine to highincome countries and shutting out countries with smaller markets. Unlike Pfizer, Moderna hasnt yet reached an agreement with COVAX, a global initiative aimed at equitable access to COVID vaccines, to distribute its vaccine to lowincome countries. A spokesperson from Moderna said that the company is in discussions with COVAX and that a vaccine that can be refrigerated for up to three months may help distribution in lowerincome countries. Countries like India struggling with rising coronavirus cases and lagging in vaccination campaigns are searching for more doses that could protect their populations. More countries have expressed interest in the last month in securing additional supplies of Modernas vaccine beyond current supply contracts, Bancel told the Journal. Last week, Moderna signed a new supply agreement with Israel for  that includes an option for doses of a vaccine targeting variants. We really believe that the virus is going to keep evolving fast with new mutations, and that variant boosters are a must for us to stop this pandemic, Bancel told The Wall Street Journal. Agencies contributed to this story.