US economy grows at annualized . in Q amid vaccine rollout, fiscal support
2021-04-30 09:41
Photo taken on April ,  shows the US Commerce Department in Washington, DC. The US economy grew at an annual rate of . percent in the first quarter of , the US Commerce Department reported Thursday. PhotoXinhua    WASHINGTON  The US economy grew at an annual rate of . percent in the first quarter of , the US Commerce Department reported Thursday. The increase in first quarter GDP gross domestic product reflected the continued economic recovery, reopening of establishments, and continued government response related to the COVID pandemic, the departments Bureau of Economic Analysis said in the advance estimate. The increase in real GDP in the first quarter reflected increases in personal consumption expenditures, nonresidential fixed investment, federal government spending, residential fixed investment, and state and local government spending that were partly offset by decreases in private inventory investment and exports, the report showed. Imports, which are a subtraction in the calculation of GDP, increased. Easy monetary policy, federal government spending to ramp up vaccinations and a surge in incomes enabled by emergency aid and two rounds of stimulus checks pushed consumer spending up at a doubledigit pace, Diane Swonk, chief economist at Grant Thornton, a major accounting firm, wrote in an analysis. Business investment, meanwhile, continued to post solid gains but at a slower pace as firms scrambled to adopt existing technologies and upgrade their equipment, Swonk noted. The largest, single drag on growth was inventories, which plummeted in response to the surge in consumer spending, she continued, adding that alone shaved . percent from overall GDP growth. The biggest hurdles during the first quarter were regional outbreaks and the lingering surge in infections that accompanies them, Swonk said. The ability of the economy to fully heal is still contingent upon our ability to contain the spread of the virus now with vaccinations. The .percent quarterly growth came after the economy saw a .percent contraction amid the COVID pandemic in . According to the International Monetary Fund IMFs latest estimation, the US economy is expected to grow by . percent this year, . percentage points up from the January estimation. US President Joe Biden on Wednesday night officially introduced the American Families Plan, a .trillionUSdollar spending proposal focused on childcare and education, just a few weeks after proposing a trilliondollar infrastructure plan, noting that with a corporate tax hike and increased tax for the wealthiest, all investments he proposed would be fully paid for over the next  years.