Tokyo organizers braced for Games with no spectators
2021-04-30 07:45
Thomas Bach, International Olympic Committee IOC President speaks to the media as he visits the National Stadium, the main venue for the  Olympic and Paralympic Games, in Tokyo, Japan, Nov , . PhotoAgencies    Fan decision delayed as prospect of behindcloseddoors action grows TOKYO  Full stadiums will be very difficult at the Tokyo Olympics, the head of the Games warned on Wednesday, as organizers admitted they are braced for the prospect of staging the action behind closed doors. Overseas spectators have already been barred from the Games for the first time, and earlier this month organizers said a June decision on domestic fans was an option. But with parts of the country, including Tokyo, under a coronavirus state of emergency, organizers confirmed they need more time. The Games open in less than three months on July . As we look into the evolving situation with the domestic infection status involving new strains, we have agreed that a decision regarding spectator capacity at the Olympic and Paralympic venues will be made in June, Olympic officials said after toplevel talks. Tokyo  chief Seiko Hashimoto said it was now unlikely that fans would fill venues as in past Olympics. We have to watch the situation and consider accordingly. As of now, full venues are very difficult, I understand that, she said. There may be a time that we have to decide on the Games behind closed doors, no spectators, she added. But to the extent possible, as many people as possible should be able to enjoy the Tokyo Games. Organizers also announced new virus rules for athletes including daily antigen virus testingup from a previous plan for tests every four days. Unclear or positive results will be followed up with additional tests to confirm. If you have a confirmed positive test for COVID during the Games... you will not be allowed to compete, an updated virus rulebook warns. All necessary measures Those deemed close contacts of any athlete testing positive may still be able to compete, with their situation assessed on a casebycase basis and depending on the likelihood of you spreading the virus, the guide added. Athletes are encouraged, but not required, to get vaccinated before the Games, and restrictions will still apply to those who are inoculated. Olympic organizers hope that bolstering virus protocols for the Games will help build support in Japan, where polls show most people back either a cancellation or a further delay. Updates to rules for other participants, including thousands of foreign media, are expected on Friday. We are ready with you to take all the necessary measures to minimize the risks to make the Japanese people feel safe, International Olympic Committee president Thomas Bach said at the start of talks with organizers and Japanese officials. Our top priority is health and safety for everyonenot only for the participants of the Olympic Games but, first and foremost, also of our gracious hosts, the Japanese people. Those violating the rules will face a disciplinary committee and could be stripped of their right to compete. Japan has seen a comparatively minor virus outbreak, with just over , deaths, but it is now battling what experts call a fourth wave of cases. People are anxious A new state of emergency was imposed on Tokyo and three other areas on April , and the governments top medical adviser warned on Wednesday that discussions should start soon on how the Games could be held if infections remain high by the summer. Whats very important is the situation of the infections and how overwhelmed the medical system is, Shigeru Omi told parliament in response to a question from an opposition lawmaker. I think it is time to discuss the Olympics, he added, while stopping short of calling for either a postponement or cancellation. Olympic officials insist the Games can still be held safely, with Hashimoto last week saying organizers are not thinking about cancellation. And Tokyo  CEO Toshiro Muto also ruled out a further delay to the Games on Wednesday. Thats something weve never discussed with the IOC or others, he said, noting that the  Winter Olympics in Beijing and  Summer Games in Paris leave little room for further postponement. Hashimoto also defended the decision to keep moving ahead, telling reporters there are so many people who are looking forward to the Games, while acknowledging there are a lot of people who are anxious. Thats the reality, and we need to look at both sides, she added. Olympic chiefs took the unprecedented decision to ban overseas fans in March, in a bid to reduce virus risks. Domestic ticket sales have not yet resumed after last years postponement. Organizers said around . million tickets had been sold in Japan, and nearly a million for the Paralympics. Tickets purchased by overseas fans are being refunded, and organizers have also said that anyone who bought tickets in Japan is eligible for a refund if crowd numbers are cut. AFP