Action  Highlight of Xis remarks at G Rome summit
2021-11-01 16:00
President Xi Jinping addresses the Group of  Leaders Summit via video link from Beijing on Sunday. PhotoXinhua    BEIJING  Action is the muchemphasized message in Chinese President Xi Jinpings remarks delivered at the G Rome summit held over the weekend. In the past two days, G heads of state and government as well as their counterparts from invited countries, and representatives of some of the main international and regional organizations discussed a wide range of issues including pandemic response, economic recovery, climate change and sustainable development. Calling on the world to jointly tackle global challenges, Xi said in his remarks via video link that taking concrete actions is the key. As the Chinese saying goes, Honoring a promise carries the weight of gold. In dealing with these global challenges, China has not only called for actions but also taken the lead to act, demonstrating a sense of responsibility as a major country. China took new steps forward at the summit such as proposing a Global Vaccine Cooperation Action Initiative and an international forum on resilient and stable industrial and supply chains, among others. The highlights of Xis remarks are as follows  China has provided over . billion doses of COVID vaccines to more than  countries and international organizations, and will provide over  billion doses to the world during the course of this year.  China is ready to work with all parties to enhance vaccine accessibility and affordability in developing countries and make a positive contribution to building a global line of defense through vaccination.  China welcomes the International Monetary Funds decision on the new allocation of Special Drawing Rights totaling  billion, and stands ready to lend the new allocation to lowincome countries that are seriously affected by COVID.  A peoplecentered approach must be taken to make global development more equitable, effective and inclusive, so that no country will be left behind.  Forming exclusive blocs or even drawing ideological lines will only cause division and create more obstacles, which will do no good but only harm to scientific and technological innovation.  China will honor its words with actions and work with all countries to pursue a path of green, lowcarbon and sustainable development.  China reiterated its goals to peak its CO emissions before  and achieve carbon neutrality before . It will support qualified localities, industries and enterprises to take the lead in peaking CO emissions.  The developed countries should honor their funding commitments to developing countries to help them cope with climate change.  The Chinese side has recently proposed the Global Development Initiative, calling on the international community to accelerate the implementation of the UN  Agenda for Sustainable Development to promote more robust, greener and healthier global development.