JP Morgan going back to the office
2021-04-29 11:30
A woman passes by a JPMorgan Chase bank in Times Square in New York City on March , . PhotoAgencies    JPMorgan Chase, the biggest US bank by assets, has told all of its US bankers they should be back in the office on a rotational basis by early July, the first major Wall Street firm to schedule a returntotheoffice date. As the US surpasses its goal of more than  million COVID vaccinations administered and more cities and states lift restrictions, we will open our US offices to all employees on Monday, May  subject to our current  percent occupancy cap, an internal memo said. We are welcoming more of you back next month so that you can get comfortable with being back in an office environment, the memo said, adding that, with this timeframe in mind you should start making any needed arrangements to help with your successful return. We know that many of you are excited to come back, but we also know that for some, the idea of coming back on a regular basis is a change youll need to manage, the staff was told in the memo signed by the companys leadership, including CEO Jamie Dimon. It was either going to be a big bang, or people easing in, Sandy Warner, JPMorgans former chairman, told Bloomberg of the banks plans. This is the big bang. While COVID vaccinations wont be mandatory for people returning to the office, JPMorgan said it strongly recommends that its staff get inoculated and will provide them with relevant information and resources. Dimon and other Wall Street executives have expressed displeasure with workfromhome arrangements and have said they dont believe they are sustainable. Dimon told analysts in September that workfromhome had caused productivity to fall, particularly on Mondays and Fridays, according to Bloomberg. Earlier this month, he said in his annual letter to shareholders that a reliance on Zoom meetings slows decisionmaking and that remote working makes it impossible for junior bankers to learn under the typical bank apprenticeship model. David Solomon, Dimons counterpart at Goldman Sachs, said at a conference in February This is not ideal for us, and its not a new normal. Its an aberration that we are going to correct as quickly as possible. Citigroups head of human resources said last month that up to  percent of workers would be back in North American offices starting in July and more colleagues would join in September. Wells Fargo has tentatively said it plans to call bankers back in September. All summer interns at JPMorgan, Goldman and Deutsche Bank AG will also work from the banks offices. Dimon said in the memo that the bank plans to implement broad openseating arrangements in many locations, which will allow it to cut back on real estate. For every  employees, we may need seats for only  on average, Dimon wrote. The bank has , US employees. JPMorgan started marketing , square feet of office space in lower Manhattan for sublease earlier this year, The Wall Street Journal reported. That is the largest block of space available for sublease in Manhattan, according to real estate services firm Savills Inc. A return to offices for JPMorgan employees will be a boost for New York City landlords and the thousands of smallbusiness owners who rely on the workers to shop at their stores and dine in their restaurants. This is fantastic news, and the fact that its JPMorgan and Jamie Dimon. This will send a very positive message to other CEOs, not just in New York but around the country, to start making plans to onboard their employees, Bill Rudin, CEO of Manhattan office landlord Rudin Management Co, told Bloomberg. The commitment to encourage employees to return to the office will do much to help the local shopping districts to reopen and rehire, said Kathryn Wylde, CEO of Partnership for New York City, a nonprofit that advocates for the citys business community. In another sign that the city is reopening, Governor Andrew Cuomo on Wednesday announced that New Yorks restaurant service curfew will end next month for both indoor and outdoor dining areas, and that bar seating can return beginning May . Cuomo had already extended the food and beverage service curfew , to midnight. That will be lifted for outdoor dining areas beginning May  and for indoor dining May . In New York, the percentage of workers returning to the office has slowly ticked up, though only . percent of  million office workers were back as of April , according to data compiled by Kastle Systems. The financial industry is among the biggest holders of office space in Manhattan. The city government is the largest employer in the city, and Mayor Bill de Blasio has set May  as the target date to begin bringing back , government workers to city buildings. Agencies contributed to this story.