Tourism recovery plans underway in Europe
2021-04-29 10:33
A tourist visits the archaeological site of the ancient Roman city of Pompeii, as it reopens to the public after much of the country became a yellow zone, loosening coronavirus disease COVID restrictions, in Pompeii, Italy, April , . PhotoAgencies    Many holiday and tourist destinations across Europe are putting revival plans in place in an attempt to boost the continents travel and tourism sector, which has been severely impacted by the novel coronavirus pandemic. According to the World Travel and Tourism Councils annual Economic Impact Report, the sector suffered a massive loss of almost . trillion in  due to the pandemic. Spain, a popular tourism destination and the worlds secondmost visited country, has been feeling the effects of the crisis. The countrys National Statistics Institute said international tourism to Spain plunged  percent to  million visitors last year, the lowest level since , as novel coronavirus restrictions took hold to curb the virus. A total of , foreign tourists visited Spain in February, down . percent from January, and international tourism revenue fell . percent yearonyear in February. Meanwhile, the World Travel and Tourism Council is hoping that by June, if international mobility and travel resumes, there will be a significant boost to global and countrylevel GDP as well as jobs. According to the global tourism bodys research, the sectors contribution to global GDP could rise sharply this year, up . percent yearonyear. The research also shows that its contribution could almost reach the same levels as  by next year, with a further yearonyear rise of . percent. As the pandemic shows initial signs of easing, some European countries have relaxed their restrictions, giving some hope to traditional tourist destinations that recovery could be something that is not very far away. In the Basque Country, an autonomous region of Spain, plans are well underway to attract local and international tourists back to the region. Koldo Atxutegi, general director of attractions and foreign direct investment for the Biscay provincial government, is hoping that the regions major events will help bring back visitors when travel restrictions ease, including  Next, which celebrates  people aged  and under from across the food and drink sector, and the Sustainable Development Goals Entrepreneurship Summit. Bilbao, the capital of Biscay province in Spains Basque Country, will also be hosting the start of the Tour de France cycling race in ,which Atxutegi said will put the region in the spotlight. He hopes global vaccination plans will also contribute to tourists returning soon and said plans are in place to put Biscay on the global map to attract visitors. We want to put in place these global events, such as  Next in gastronomy. We will have talent connectivity and innovation, he said. Our strategy is to attract people, companies, talent and entrepreneurship, and also develop an ecosystem of energy, mobility and food technology. The World Travel and Tourism Council also predicts that if the global vaccine rollout continues at the current pace and travel restrictions are relaxed just before the summer season, then the  million jobs lost in  could return by . Joxe Mari Aizega, head of the Basque Culinary Center, is confident that visitors will return to the region by the summer, with many restaurants and hospitality venues putting in place COVID safety rules, such as social distancing and better ventilation systems. They are working very consciously implementing measures and I think the consumers are feeling safe at the restaurants, he said. He pointed out that bigger and popular destinations might suffer more because visitors will be worried about crowds and a lack of social distancing measures. Tourists coming to the Basque Country are here for other activities such as gastronomy, so Im quite optimistic things will pick back up, Aizega said. Weve seen in the last few years how gastronomy has had a big influence on tourist destinations. We are a culinary nation, so I think the Basque Country has a lot to offer. We might need some time to let travel come back again with restrictions or perhaps vaccine passports, but this year the sector will come back. While some in the industry remain optimistic about the year ahead, the World Tourism Organization adopted a more cautious tone. The United Nations agency said  percent of travel experts do not see a return to prepandemic levels in the tourism sector before . The organization forecast that it could take twoandahalf to four years for international tourism to return to  levels.