Wimbledon breaks with tradition by scrapping rest day
2021-04-29 09:25
Switzerlands Roger Federer in action during the final against Serbias Novak Djokovic at All England Lawn Tennis and Croquet Club inWimbledon, London, Britain, July , . PhotoAgencies    For all of the pandemicrelated planning discussed for this years return of Wimbledonmuch still to be determined, including fan capacity and prize moneyTuesdays biggest news out of the All England Club takes effect in  There will be play on the Grand Slam tournaments middle Sunday. In addition to creating a day event by eliminating the traditional break at the midpoint, the historic decision forever alters what has come to be known as Manic Monday, the opening of Week  that made Wimbledon the only major tennis championship with all  womens and mens fourthround singles matches scheduled for the same day. Instead, under a plan organizers intend to make a permanent part of the schedule, the fourth round will be split between Sunday and Monday next year, All England Club chairman Ian Hewitt said during a video conference. Next year marks a century since Centre Court was opened in . Middle Sunday has hosted competition only four times, when rain disrupted the schedule and created a backlog of matches in , ,  and . We want more of this wonderful event to be available to more people, chief executive Sally Bolton said. The additional ticket and concession sales that become available probably will be appreciated by the club, too. Both of those categories will drop in  because of restrictions still in place amid the coronavirus pandemic, which wiped out Wimbledon completely a year ago. That was the first time since World War II the grasscourt tournament was not held, but the club held cancellation insurance that paid  million pounds  million, Hewitt said. This years Wimbledon singles main draw is scheduled for June July . For an organization that is used to knowing exactly what we do and exactly when we do it, we have had to learn to work with uncertainty this year, Bolton said. Much remains unknown at this point. As of now, the plan is to reduce capacity to  percent of normal numbersabout , people attended the tournament across its  days in but that could rise once the British government makes a determination on whether restrictions can be eased. That is anticipated around June . Because ticket sales affect revenue, and there is too much financial uncertainty as of now, Bolton said she expects this years prize money to be announced in June. Ticket prices will remain at  levels, she said. But other elements are still in flux and dependent on government rules. That includes whether spectators will need to provide proof of having received a COVID vaccine or a negative test, whether they will need to wear masks to protect against the spread of the illness and whether they still can gather on the grassy spotknown as Henman Hill or Murray Mountused for picnics while watching matches on a large video screen. Players will need to stay in hotels in what Bolton described as a minimized risk environment, with coronavirus testing and a trackandtrace program. They will be limited to three entourage members each and will not be allowed to rent private homes in Wimbledon Village, as some usually do. Sitting at the desk in the clubs main interview room, Hewitt spoke of this years tournament as part of the process of beginning to embrace a return towards normality. And then he added It will, though, necessarily be different from Wimbledon as we know it. Agencies via Xinhua