Chinese, German leaders hold th round of intergovernmental talks
2021-04-28 20:32
German and Chinese national flags fly in Tiananmen Square in Beijing, in May , . PhotoAgencies    China and Germany should enhance mutual trust, clear misgivings, narrow differences and focus on cooperation to ensure the longterm healthy and steady growth of bilateral relations, Premier Li Keqiang said on Wednesday. Lis remarks came as he cochaired the sixth round of ChinaGermany intergovernmental consultation with German Chancellor Angela Merkel via video link in Beijing. In his opening remarks, the premier noted bilateral trade volume increased on a yearonyear basis last year despite the fallout of COVID, a strong indicator of the high level and immense potential of bilateral cooperation. The direct beneficiaries from bilateral cooperation are the people from both countries, and the stability of international industry and supply chains also can be protected during the process, he said. With the pandemic far from its end and protectionism continuing to exist, Li highlighted the need for China and Germany, as two major economies and influential nations, to take the lead in conducting open, mutually beneficial and winwin cooperation. With the two nations set to celebrate the th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations next year, the premier urged both sides to treat each other with sincerity, seek winwin cooperation and rise above unnecessary distractions. Merkel hailed the new depth in bilateral cooperation in diplomacy, trade and economics, agriculture, society, food security, sustainable development and response to climate change in her opening remarks. Germany and China both have important roles to play in the global response to COVID, and Berlin is willing to work with Beijing for cooperation in vaccine production and mutual recognition of vaccination, she said. The EUChina Comprehensive Agreement on Investment is transparent and equal, and it will provide more guarantees for bilateral trade and economic cooperation, she said. As allround strategic partners, Germany hopes to maintain dialogue and exchanges with China and further enhance mutual understanding, she said.