In face of protectionism and nationalism, the remedy is multilateralism, says Italian PM
2021-11-01 09:10
The G Leaders Summit opens on Saturday in Rome, Italy. The country holds the rotating G presidency.ZHANG CHENGXINHUA    Italys Prime Minister Mario Draghi has called on world leaders to uphold multilateralism and do all they can to overcome differences. Speaking at the opening of the G Summit, Draghi, whose country holds the G presidency this year, reminded people that the world faced protectionism, unilateralism and nationalism even before the pandemic. But the more we go with all our challenges, the more it is clear that multilateralism is the best answer to the problems we face today, he said in the Rome Convention Center, also known as La Nuvola, or The Cloud. In many ways, its the only possible answer. Draghi said that going alone is not an option to tackle challenges from the pandemic to climate change. We must do all we can to overcome our differences. We must rekindle the spirit that led to the creation of this group. He warned of the startling disparity in the global distribution of vaccines, citing the fact that in highincome countries  percent of the population has received at least one dose, while in the poorest countries the percentage is just  percent. The differences are morally unacceptable, and undermines the global recovery, said Draghi, a former governor of the European Central Bank. His words were echoed by United Nations SecretaryGeneral Antonio Guterres, who urged leaders at the G Summit to show leadership to save lives, prevent further suffering and enable a full global recovery. Vaccine inequality is prolonging the pandemic at great human and economic cost, he said. According to a recent report by an activist group including organizations such as Oxfam, Amnesty International and UNAIDS, wealthy countries promised to donate . billion doses of COVID vaccines but have delivered just  million, or  percent, of the pledge. At the meeting on Saturday the leaders of the worlds  major economies endorsed a  percent global minimum corporate tax. Their commitment came after about  countries agreed in early October to a percent minimum tax rate. The minimum tax deal, which was expected to be adopted on Sunday, fell short of the original call by the United States for a  percent minimum tax. US President Joe Biden, who is desperate to claim a win after his infrastructure bill was stalled in the US Congress and whose approval rating has plummeted, said on Saturday that this is more than just a tax dealits diplomacy reshaping our global economy and delivering for our people. As leaders started their first day of the twoday meeting, thousands of climate activists and antiG campaigners marched through the streets of Rome, accusing leaders of the worlds major economies of inaction on climate change. The protests, in which participants included movements such as Friday for Future and Extinction Rebellion, came just a day before the  UN climate conference which opened in Glasgow on Sunday. Allison Pearson, a columnist for the British newspaper The Daily Telegraph, said in a tweet G leaders fly to Rome. Carbon emissions? Then fly to Glasgow. Carbon emissions? Disgusting hypocrisy. The Italian government has deployed more than , extra police officers in addition to the usual police force in Rome to ensure security during the twoday meeting. It has also designated a squarekilometer maximum security zone surrounding the meeting venues. On Saturday armed soldiers and police officers were seen not just around meeting venues but outside many luxury hotels in the city center where G leaders will be staying. Some patrol helicopters buzzed overhead.