Africa vaccination gaps trouble WHO
2021-04-28 14:26
Kenyan tour guide, Daniel Ole Kissipan, receives the AstraZenecaOxford vaccine against the coronavirus disease COVID under the COVAX scheme, in Nairobi, Kenya on April , . PhotoAgencies    The World Health Organization urged governments and leaders across Africa to boost integrated action to increase and expand access to immunization as the continent celebrates World Vaccination Week this year. Matshidiso Moeti, the WHO regional director for Africa, said action should be backed by a sufficient, trained workforce, strong surveillance and health information systems, as well as national leadership, management and coordination. Communities should be engaged to improve health literacy and increase demand for vaccines, with special attention on reaching the poorest and most marginalized groups, Moeti said in a statement on Monday. She expressed concerns that routine immunization coverage at the regional level has stalled in the past  years at between  and  percent. Moeti said an estimated  million children in the region miss out on lifesaving vaccines every year. One in five remain unprotected from vaccine preventable diseases which claim the lives of more than , children under  years of age in Africa annually. She said  percent of children that miss out on vaccines live in  countries. The Democratic Republic of the Congo and Ethiopia account for almost  percent of those cases. This affects not only children in hardtoreach rural areas but also those in urban communities, she said. This years vaccination week comes in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic that significantly disrupted vaccination efforts. WHO said the pandemic has disrupted planned vaccination drives in  African countries, with over  million children missing measles vaccine doses since January . During the period, eight African countries reported major measles outbreaks that affected tens of thousands. The outbreaks were largely due to low routine immunization coverage or delayed vaccination drives. The quality of measles surveillance in the continent fell to its lowest level in seven years in , with just  countries meeting their target. On Monday, three Genevabased organizations issued a joint statement aiming to save over  million lives through vaccinations. The WHO, the United Nations Childrens Fund and Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance called for urgent action to renew the global commitment to improve access and uptake of vaccines. Vaccines will help us end the COVID pandemic but only if we ensure fair access for all countries, and build strong systems to deliver them, Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, the WHOs directorgeneral, said in a news release. Xinhua contributed to this story.