US CDC eases guidelines on masks
2021-04-28 10:55
A person sits in Bryant Park after the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention CDC announced new guidelines regarding outdoor mask wearing and vaccination during the outbreak of the coronavirus disease COVID in Manhattan, New York City, New York, US, April , . PhotoAgencies    US health officials said Tuesday that people who have been fully vaccinated and have waited at least two weeks after their last shot dont need to wear masks outdoors when alone, with members of their household and other vaccinated family and friends or in small gatherings. The CDC also said vaccinated people can gather in small groups outdoors without masks even if the group includes unvaccinated individuals. Fully vaccinated people also dont need to wear masks indoors with other fully vaccinated people, or with unvaccinated people of any age from one other household, unless someone in the group is at heightened risk from COVID. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention CDC released the new guidance in another step on the road back to normal from the coronavirus outbreak that has killed more than , people in the US. In remarks outside the White House a short while later, President Joe Biden credited the extraordinary progress weve made in fighting this virus for allowing these new guidelines, which he said are helping us get back ... to normal in our living. Were back to that place now, as long as you get vaccinated, he said. Biden said the new guidance is a step toward getting life in America closer to normal by his target date of the Fourth of July. CDC Director Dr Rochelle Walensky announced the guidelines at a press briefing, saying the agency had made the changes after studying how likely vaccinated people are to transmit the virus. Today is another day we can take a step back to the normalcy of before, said Walensky. If you are fully vaccinated, things are much safer for you than those who are not yet fully vaccinated. For most of the past year, the CDC had been advising people to wear masks outdoors if they are within  feet of each other. The change comes as more than half of US adults have gotten at least one dose of a coronavirus vaccine, and more than a third have been fully vaccinated. Fully vaccinated people can also meet with unvaccinated people of any age indoors without masks as long as the group consists of just two households and the unvaccinated people arent at increased risk for severe COVID. The fully vaccinated should also wear masks at indoor gatherings with unvaccinated people, visits to a barber, hair salon, shopping mall, museum, movie theater or crowded house of worship, the agency said. Unvaccinated people  defined by the CDC as those who have yet to receive both doses of the Pfizer or Moderna vaccine or the oneshot Johnson  Johnson formula  should wear masks at outdoor gatherings that include other unvaccinated people. They also should keep using masks at outdoor restaurants. The CDC stopped short of telling vaccinated people they could shed masks altogether in outdoor settings, saying vaccinated adults should continue wearing masks and staying  feet apart in large public spaces, like outdoor performance or sports events, indoor shopping malls and movie theaters, where the vaccination and health status of others would be unknown. And they still should avoid medium and large gatherings, crowds and poorly ventilated spaces, officials said. Its the return of freedom, Dr Mike Saag, an infectious diseases expert at the University of Alabama at Birmingham, told The Associated Press. Its the return of us being able to do normal activities again. Were not there yet, but were on the exit ramp. And thats a beautiful thing. The CDC, which has been cautious in its guidance during the crisis, essentially endorsed what many people have already been doing over the past several weeks. So far,  governors have let their state orders requiring people to wear face coverings in public expire. Many cities and local jurisdictions also have begun to increase capacity at restaurants and businesses. The timing is right because we now have a fair amount of data about the scenarios where transmission occurs, said Mercedes Carnethon, a professor and vicechair of preventive medicine at Northwestern Universitys Feinberg School of Medicine in Chicago. Whats more, she said, the additional freedoms may serve as a motivator for people to get vaccinated. A review paper published in February in the Journal of Infectious Diseases by researchers at the University of California, San Francisco, found that less than  percent of transmission occurs outdoors and the odds of spreading the virus indoors were  times higher.