Beijings help vital in Latin America
2021-04-27 10:12
Staff members unload Sinovac COVID vaccines at San Salvador airport in San Salvador, El Salvador, on March , . PhotoXinhua    Humanitarian aid from China has become a lifeline for Central and South American nations in their fight against the COVID pandemic, with help from Beijing even protecting the sport of soccer in the region. The aid from China comes from the private and public sectors as well as multiple levels of government. One of the latest is the city of Shanghai, which has sent pandemicrelated equipment and materials, providing help to nations such as Panama and El Salvador. Since the beginning of Panamas diplomatic relations with the Peoples Republic of China, we have strengthened ties of friendship and cooperation, Panamas President Laurentino Cortizo said while receiving a shipment sent by Shanghai early this month. Chinese help, both from overseas as well as from local Chinese community groups, has been significant in Panama. There had been donations of bottled water and cotton by the Heart of China Foundation in Panama. Eduardo Cristo, director of the ColombiaPanama Chamber of Commerce, said Panamas vaccination campaign began with Pfizer jabs, but now is being boosted with Sinovacs vaccine. Panamanian authorities approved a bid from Sinovac Biotech for emergency distribution and use of the CoronaVac vaccine in the country on April . The country has reported more than , cases and about , deaths but the spread of the virus appears to have been generally contained and the daily number of deaths is down to fewer than five. Threat remains The deadly danger of the COVID pandemic still threatens us all. Against it, China and Panama act  as two brother countries, Wei Qiang, Chinas ambassador to Panama, tweeted recently. China has become a protagonist of solidarity not only with Panama but also with other countries in the region, Liz Vargas, a Panamanian lawyer and entrepreneur, said from the city of Boquetes. Neighboring countries such as El Salvador are also benefiting from Chinese aid. We need to thank the government of China for helping us in the moments we need it most, said Fenix Ventura, an entrepreneur and merchant who trades Chinese goods in El Salvador. El Salvador has received more than a million doses of CoronaVac. People in the region believe it will make a big difference. We are very grateful to China for the continued expressions of solidarity received, said Xavier Batista, a telecommunications maintenance supervisor in Panama City. Elsewhere, Mexico received a new shipment of Sinovac jabs on Sunday, which will help accelerate the national inoculation plan. Sport has also benefited, in particular the South American Football Confederation, or CONMEBOL. Chinese vaccines have helped keep the sport alive in the region after Sinovac donated , doses for the players that will participate in the CONMEBOL America Cup that brings together teams from across the Americas. The aid comes at a crucial time. Latin America is a region that is having a hard time with COVID, said Tata Castro, a sports journalist in Colombia, which will jointly host the tournament with Argentina. Since the largescale production of scientifically proven vaccines began, we have made efforts to obtain a supply in sufficient volume to initiate extensive immunization in football on our continent, CONMEBOL President Alejandro Dominguez said on April . CONMEBOL was considering canceling the event but having all participants vaccinated saved the tournament. The writer is a freelance journalist for China Daily.