Vaccine production site opens in Tianjin
2021-04-27 09:29
COVID vaccines are being manufactured at a CanSino Biologics factory in Tianjin on Sunday. Photo by Feng YongbinChina Daily    With singledose COVID vaccines now being rolled out at a new production site launched by CanSino Biologics in Tianjin, the company expects that by next year, it will be capable of providing the world with more than  million doses of Convideciathe only adenovirus vector COVID vaccine that has gained conditional market approval in China so far, the companys CEO said. The new COVID vaccine production base can produce about  million doses of vaccines annually. It will enable us to deliver quality vaccines to the market more efficiently, and it will also significantly boost our production capacity, said Yu Xuefeng, cofounder and CEO of the company, as vaccines began coming off production lines at the new base on Sunday. According to interim analysis of latestage human trials, the vaccine, called AdnCoV, is . percent effective in preventing symptomatic cases after  days of injection and . percent effective in preventing severe cases, the company said. On Feb , the Chinese National Medical Products Administration granted conditional market approval to the vaccine after it was approved by the Central Military Commission for emergency use in June. The development of the vaccine kicked off on Jan  last year when the COVID epidemic situation was grave in China. By working with its partners, the companys annual domestic production for COVID vaccines is capable of reaching  million doses. CanSino Biologics is also developing vaccines for children between age  and , the company said in a report in March. Chen Wei, a key figure behind the vaccine and a researcher at the Institute of Military Medicine of the Academy of Military Sciences, said the new production base can help China contribute more to the worlds fight against the COVID pandemic. We are also working on developing COVID vaccines administered through inhalation, she said on Sunday. Yu, the CEO, said an inhaled vaccine can activate antibodies in the airways and offer extra protection. In the event that the extra layer of protection fails, other parts of the immune system could still act against it. The inhaled COVID vaccine was approved for clinical trials on March . Unlike other vaccines approved for conditional market use in China, Convidecia doesnt have an age restriction, typically between  and , because older people have been taking part in its clinical trials. Some of them have been older than , Chen added. Convidecia uses a genetically modified adenovirusa common type of virusto carry an antigen from the novel coronavirus into cells to induce an immune response. Its clinical trials were conducted in Pakistan, Mexico, Russia, Chile and Argentina. No severe complications related to the vaccine have been reported so far, the company said.