Worsening situation in India shows it is too early to relax China Daily editorial
2021-04-25 18:58
A woman with a breathing problem waits to receive oxygen support for free at a Gurudwara Sikh temple, amidst the spread of coronavirus disease COVID, in Ghaziabad, India, on April , . Picture taken April , . PhotoAgencies    As of  am on Saturday, India had registered , new novel coronavirus infections over the preceding  hours, the third day the daily figure was over ,. The number of daily deaths attributed to the virus reached more than , on Friday. In all, more than  million people in India have been infected so far. Thanks to a lack of oxygen and beds, most hospitals in India cannot admit any infected patients no matter how serious their conditions are. In other words, its healthcare system has collapsed. How can India be in such a horrible state? It claimed earlier this year that it had basically brought the virus under control. It is obvious that the Indian government underestimated how infectious the virus is and how rapidly it can spread. Some large scale religious activities were held in India without requiring participants to wear masks or adopt effective prevention and control measures. It took less than two months for the daily increase in the number of infections to increase from about , to more than ,, a rate faster than that in the United States during the worst period of its struggle with the virus. Meanwhile, Japans daily increase in infections surpassed , for three consecutive days from Tuesday to Thursday. As of Saturday, the accumulated number of infections worldwide had reached  million, and the death toll was more than  million, according to the statistics of Johns Hopkins University in the United States. Yet despite this, some European countries have announced that they intend to lift their prevention and control measures as nearly onefourth of the adults in European Union countries have been vaccinated. However, new variants of the virus have appeared in India and have proved to be highly infectious. The risk of the virus being brought into the European countries from India is high. It is still unknown whether the vaccines that are being administered in many countries are effective against these variants. It is far too early to be optimistic about the herd immunity the increasingly higher rate of vaccination will hopefully build in the EU countries and elsewhere. It is necessary for as many people as possible to be vaccinated. But control and prevention measures are still more than necessary. In addition, international aid in whatever forms are not only necessary but also urgent for India to contain the spread of the virus as early as possible. A single countrys loss of control over the pandemic will likely cause another regional surge in infections and possibly lead to another wave of the pandemic worldwide. China has already expressed its willingness to provide India with whatever help it needs. It is hoped that more countries will do the same. The pandemic needs to be brought under control globally.