Frances COVID situation improving, but risks remain high PM
2021-04-23 09:46
French Prime Minister Jean Castex speaks as he holds a news conference on the government strategy for the ongoing coronavirus disease COVID pandemic, Paris, France, April , . PhotoAgencies    PARIS  French Prime Minister Jean Castex said Thursday that the coronavirus epidemic situation is improving in the country, allowing a gradual exit from national lockdown in early May. The peak of the third wave seems to be behind us, he said. We have observed a genuine fall in the circulation of the virus over the last  days ... The latest figures indicate positive signs. Three weeks into the onemonth confinement, the number of daily infections decreased by  percent to around , on average, and the number of patients in intensive care, having reached a plateau, will slow down in next few days, said the prime minister. The level of viral circulation is still high ... We must remain vigilant. We are facing more contagious variants, therefore more difficult to fight, Castex warned, adding that the government would opt for a gradual and cautious deconfinement approach. On May , daytime restrictions on domestic travel will end and secondary schools will reopen. Certain cultural and sporting activities, cafes and restaurants terraces will resume activities by midMay depending on the evolution of the epidemic situation. The government could also allow reopening on a regiontoregion basis starting with areas with lower virus circulation. In the meantime, the curfew will remain until further notice. Starting from Saturday, all arrivals from Chile, South Africa, Brazil, Argentina and India must undergo a strict day quarantine. Prior to boarding on the plane, authorized travelers will be required to present a negative PCR test less than  hours old. France on Thursday reported , new infections, bringing the national total to about . million. The death toll rose by  daily to ,. To date, . million people in France, or . percent of the adult population, have received at least one vaccine shot, and . million have completed their inoculation.