US weekly jobless claims hit month low home sales tumble
2021-04-23 05:46
PhotoAgencies    WASHINGTON  The number of Americans filing new claims for unemployment benefits fell to a month low last week, suggesting layoffs were subsiding and strengthening expectations for another month of blockbuster job growth in April as a reopening economy unleashes pentup demand. While the labor market recovery is gaining speed, red flags are emerging in the housing market, the economys star performer during the COVID pandemic. Sales of previouslyowned homes tumbled to a sevenmonth low in March as prices jumped to a record high amid an acute shortage of houses, other data showed on Thursday. Realtors warned that expensive homes could become a permanent feature of the market, worsening inequality. Even as the economy is booming and the labor market scars are healing thanks to massive public aid from the government and increased COVID vaccinations, there are still . million people collecting unemployment checks. We are seeing claims drop across most states, which shows the jobs recovery has become more geographically broadbased, said Robert Frick, corporate economist at Navy Federal Credit Union in Vienna, Virginia. However, a growing number of Americans are out of work for longer, and its those who are tougher to bring back into the labor force. Initial claims for state unemployment benefits decreased , to a seasonally adjusted , for the week ended April , the lowest since midMarch , the Labor Department said. Economists polled by Reuters had forecast , applications for the latest week. It was the second straight week that claims were below the , level since March  when mandatory shutdowns of nonessential businesses like restaurants and bars were enforced to slow the first wave of COVID infections. There were large declines in filings in Texas and New York, as well as decreases in several other states. Claims have remained elevated because of fraud, especially in California and Ohio. The enhancement of the unemployment benefits programs, including a weekly  subsidy, could also be encouraging some people to attempt to file a claim for assistance, though not every application is approved. The latest Labor Department data on first payments show only a fraction of claims were successful over the past months. The weekly subsidy and the Pandemic Unemployment Assistance PUA program will run through Sept. . Claims jumped to a record . million in early April . In a healthy labor market, claims are normally in a range of , to ,. Including the PUA program, , people filed claims last week, squeaking below , for the first time since the pandemic started. Stocks on Wall Street were mixed. The dollar gained versus a basket of currencies. US Treasury prices fell. Reuters