Imperative vaccine divide narrowed China Daily editorial
2021-04-21 19:14
A medical worker receives a COVID vaccine at a hospital in Lagos, Nigeria, on March . Supplies were provided under the COVAX initiative. PhotoAgencies    As the COVID pandemic is still raging across the world, the imbalance in the distribution of vaccines  with the developed countries far outpacing developing countries in their vaccination drives  is becoming ever more acute. This parlous state of affairs is almost entirely due to the lack of global and moral responsibility on the part of those developed countries capable of producing COVID vaccines. Only . percent of vaccine doses administered so far have gone to lowincome countries, according to the World Health Organization. On average, in highincome countries, almost oneinfour people have received a vaccine. In lowincome countries, its one in more than , WHO DirectorGeneral Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said early this month. The situation has prompted former United Kingdom prime minister Gordon Brown to warn that the world is witnessing deadly vaccine apartheid. Immunizing the West but only a fraction of the developing world is already fueling allegations of vaccine apartheid, and will leave COVID spreading, mutating and threatening the lives and livelihoods of us all for years to come, he said. The United States passed a major vaccine milestone on Sunday, with about  million Americans  half its adult population  having received at least the first jab. Yet the contribution it has made to the global fight against the pandemic has obviously not matched its status as the worlds sole superpower and home to the Pfizer, Moderna and Johnson  Johnson vaccines. The White House has reiterated that its primary focus is on vaccinating the American people. Although its press secretary Jen Psaki recently denied media reports about the countrys export prohibitions on COVID vaccines, European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen has called for more openness on the vaccines, believing that the US and the UK have systems in place that effectively blocked the export of the vaccines. Which explains why India, which is currently experiencing the worst surge in coronavirus infections and in urgent need of vaccines, is asking the US to lift a ban on exports of vaccine raw materials. China has set a good example by striking a balance between helping other countries with the fight against the pandemic and having its own people inoculated. More than  million doses of COVID vaccines have been administered across China, while it has taken concrete actions to make vaccines a global public good  by donating  million vaccines to the global vaccine sharing program of COVAX, and providing vaccine aid to more than  developing countries and exporting them to nearly  countries. Developed countries should follow suit if they dont want the vaccine divide to widen, which would be to their detriment as well.