Xis speech at G summit injects new, strong momentum into global solidarity, cooperation
2021-10-31 21:01
Photo taken on Oct ,  shows a view of the Group of Twenty G Leaders Summit held in Rome, Italy. PhotoXinhua    BEIJING  Chinese President Xi Jinpings proposals on global COVID campaign and economic recovery are of great significance and have demonstrated Chinas responsibility as a major country, foreign experts and scholars have said. Speaking highly of Xis speech via video link at the th Group of  G Leaders Summit on Saturday, they said Xis remarks have injected new and strong momentum into global solidarity, cooperation and development. Bertrand Badie, an international relations specialist at the Paris Institute of Political Studies, strongly agreed with Xis proposal of working in solidarity to combat COVID, saying that to prevail over the pandemic, building a global immunity barrier is indispensable, which requires the strengthening of multilateral institutes, in particular the World Health Organization, and cannot be just an initiative of a single country. Noting that China has played a positive role in promoting global economic recovery and multilateral trade development, Badie said in order to face global crisis and threats, it is very much necessary to strengthen inclusive multilateralism. The Global Vaccine Cooperation Action Initiative proposed by Xi is very important and timely, said Igor Shatrov, head of the expert council of Russias Strategic Development Fund, noting that as the COVID pandemic is still grim, coordinated efforts of the international community are needed. B. R. Deepak, chairperson of the Center of Chinese and Southeast Asian Studies at the New Delhibased Jawaharlal Nehru University, also lauded the Global Vaccine Cooperation Action Initiative, saying that the pandemic needs to be combatted by all nations together by formulating a coordinated approach, sharing information, reposing faith in multilateral institutions. According to Evandro Carvalho, a Brazilian professor at the Getulio Vargas Foundation, an economic think tank, the vaccine cooperation initiative proposed by Xi is of great importance as it will provide strong support for developing countries to get vaccines. Volker Tschapke, honorary president of Germanys Prussian Society, said that China has provided vaccines to more than  countries and international organizations, including many developing countries, which shows Chinas practice of multilateralism. Xi talked about green development in his speech and reiterated Chinas carbon peak and neutrality goals on the multilateral stage, setting an example for the world, he said. It is in everyones interest to build a new model of society, which is no longer against living things, but in peaceful coexistence with nature and which the Chinese president has called ecological civilization, said Elisabeth Martens, a Belgian biologist. It is in the field of PPE personal protective equipment and vaccines where China has done an excellent job of helping other countries and other people to build the defenses to COVID, said Stephen Perry, chairman of Britains  Group Club. Praising Xis vision of building a community with a shared future for mankind as a sound philosophy, he said that addressing global challenges such as the pandemic, climate change and terrorism requires the attention and participation of every country as well as cooperation on a multilateral basis.