President vows more collaboration in vaccines
2021-04-21 07:12
A worker at SoekarnoHatta International Airport near Jakarta, Indonesia, transports containers of COVID vaccines. PhotoAgencies    China will continue its COVID vaccine cooperation with Indonesia and help the country grow into a regional hub for vaccine production, President Xi Jinping said, calling on the two countries to jointly oppose the vaccine divide. Xi made the remark in his phone conversation with Indonesian President Joko Widodo on Tuesday. Saying that both China and Indonesia attach importance to the safety of peoples lives and health and oppose vaccine nationalism, Xi added that the two countries vaccine cooperation is taking the lead globally. China has exported five shipments totaling  million vaccine doses and  million doses of bulk vaccine to Indonesia, Xiao Qian, the Chinese ambassador to Indonesia, said in a signed article published on March . While China has included foreign citizens inside the country, including those from Indonesia, in its inoculation plan, Xi said he hoped Indonesia will also provide active support for Chinese citizens in the Southeast Asian country. He called on the two countries to develop new engines for growth, including new energy and maritime cooperation, and strengthen digital economy cooperation. Xi also called for efforts from the two nations to push for the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership to become effective and be implemented, and to facilitate regional trade liberalization and economic integration. China welcomes more highquality exports from Indonesia, Xi added. Faced with changes unseen in a century as well as the pandemic, Xi said China stands ready to work with Indonesia to uphold multilateralism, safeguard fairness and justice, promote global climate governance and defend the common interests of developing countries. The Indonesian president said that Chinas great achievements in all areas, especially in poverty alleviation and economic development, have contributed to the development of regional countries such as Indonesia. Also on Tuesday, Xi talked with Saudi Arabias Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman by phone. Xi said that China is willing to work with Saudi Arabia and other members of the international community to build an equitable climate governance regime that is cooperative and beneficial to all. He called for concerted efforts to push for comprehensive and effective implementation of the Paris Agreement on climate change in accordance with the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities. Xi said that both climate change and the COVID pandemic are major challenges faced by mankind and should be jointly addressed by all countries within the framework of multilateralism. The president said that China looks at its relationship with Saudi Arabia from a strategic and longterm perspective, and respects its sovereignty and development path. China is willing to work with Saudi Arabia to promote highlevel cooperation in such areas as energy and high technology, deepen coordination in international and regional affairs and bring their comprehensive strategic partnership to a new level, Xi said. Mohammed bin Salman expressed Saudi Arabias firm support for Chinas justified position on issues concerning its core interests and appreciation for the goals that China has set for implementing its nationally determined contributions to the promised reduction in greenhouse gases.