Kenya targets  percent COVID vaccine wastage
2021-04-20 19:57
A health worker receives the AstraZenecaOxford vaccine under the COVAX scheme against coronavirus disease COVID at the Kenyatta National Hospital in Nairobi, Kenya on March , . PhotoAgencies    Kenya is targeting to record an average wastage rate of  percent or less in the ongoing coronavirus vaccination process, according to the national taskforce on vaccine deployment and vaccination. The taskforce is thus urging health workers to strictly follow guidelines on use of the vaccines to avoid unnecessary wastage. Should a halfused vial of vaccine reach the discard time, the remaining doses will be discarded and recorded as a wastage. This wastage is monitored on daily basis, the taskforce said in a statement. While giving a clarification on the variance in the number of doses administered in some counties, the taskforce said although each vial or the container holding the vaccine doses contains at least the number of doses stated, it is possible to withdraw additional doses depending on vial size. This followed questions over how Nyeri county in Kenyas central region, which had received , Covishield vaccine doses, had managed to vaccinate , people by close of business. The taskforce said some manufacturers include some overage or extra quantity in a vial to cater for losses when vaccines are being drawn into syringes. Depending on the type of syringes used, the remaining quantity in the vial may yield one or two extra doses. This has been observed during use of the Covishield vaccine in Kenya, the taskforce said. It said a similar scenario has been observed in other countries conducting coronavirus vaccination, such as the United States, due to the use of low dead volume syringes. This in effect leads to a negative wastage rate where more people are vaccinated from one vial than the expected number of doses. The team tasked with the national deployment and vaccination plan said a follow up at one facility in Kenya found that at least one extra dose could be extracted from a vial. While the manufacturer does not assure an extra dose for every vial, the high demand of the vaccine means that these extra doses can be used to vaccinate more eligible people. In practice however, the health workers do not pool extra doses from other vials, to ensure safety guidelines are adhered to, the taskforce said. Each vial of the Indianmade OxfordAstraZeneca vaccine marketed as Covishield, which Kenya has been using, contains  doses. Since the inoculation exercise kicked off over a month ago, over , people have received the Covishield vaccine in the country, according to the Ministry of Health. Those aged older than  constitute the bulk of those who have received the jab, with , of those within the age bracket already vaccinated. Of those who have been vaccinated, , are healthcare workers, , are teachers and , are security officers. The Ministry of Health said men continue to exhibit greater enthusiasm than women in being vaccinated against coronavirus, constituting  percent of those vaccinated. Nairobi county has utilized the highest number of doses, with , distributed doses and , persons having been vaccinated. Kenya received . million doses of AstraZeneca vaccines on March , as part of the Covax facility, a global initiative working with governments and manufacturers to ensure coronavirus vaccines are available worldwide to both higherincome and lowerincome countries. The country also received , donations by the government of India. Kenya is currently experiencing the third wave of the coronavirus outbreak, characterized by the emergence and spread of variant strains. As of Tuesday, the east African country had recorded a total of , coronavirus infection cases and , deaths.