Aussie scientists deliver new way to administer vaccines
2021-10-31 10:24
Scientists work inside the CSL Biotech facility in Melbourne, Australia, Sept , . PhotoAgencies    SYDNEY  Scientists from the University of Queensland UQ successfully developed a method that can deliver vaccines using a painfree patch without needles. The discovery, published in the Science Advances journal on Saturday, uses a highdensity microarray patch HDMAP that, after being applied to the recipients skin, applies thousands of microscopic projections. Lead researcher, Dr. David Muller from UQs School of Chemistry and Molecular Biosciences said initial testing in mice using an Americanmade COVID vaccine has shown a better and faster immune responses. It also neutralizes multiple variants, including the variants first detected in Britain and South Africa, said Muller. However, the main promise of the technology lies in its ability to be selfadministered, vaccinate an individual in a single dose, and be stored at a range of temperatures. Weve shown this vaccine, when drycoated on a patch, is stable for at least  days at  degrees Celsius and one week at  degrees. So it doesnt have the cold chain requirements of some of the current options, said Muller. This could present a major boon in the global vaccination rollout, especially in developing countries where the availability of doctors and vaccine cooling facilities are scarce. He said beyond vaccinations for coronavirus, the patch technology could also be applied to vaccines for polio, dengue fever and influenza. So basically, the patch is a platform technology, which you can pair with the vaccine you want to work on, Muller told Xinhua. He said that once the technology comes out of trials and its production is scaled up, it is expected to have a cost comparable to a prefilled needle and syringe. Muller has had no shortage of enthusiasm for the technology, especially among Australians who have a phobia of needles, otherwise known as Trypanophobia, which has presented a very real barrier for those wanting to get vaccinated against COVID. I get emails weekly, asking when will it be available, can we participate in the trials. The only thing they dont realize is that any clinical trial will involve blood draw. Its very innocuous. So, I think for the end user, the experience wouldnt cause a lot of anxiety.