Researchers swift response to outbreak led to medical advances
2021-04-18 21:41
Wang Chen third from left, president of the Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences and Peking Union Medical College, presents certificates to new members of an academic advisory committee during the Chinese Medical Sciences Development Conference in Beijing on April . Photo by Zhu Xingxinchinadaily.com.cn    Chinese researchers swift and concerted response to the COVID outbreak has led to a number of medical advances that have bolstered the domestic and global fight against the disease, according to a report released by Chinas top medical academy on Sunday. Twelve of last years  significant medical outcomes selected by an academic advisory committee addressed key issues in preventing and controlling COVID. The committee, comprising over  top medical experts, was convened by the Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences and Peking Union Medical College, which published the results. Among the picks are key pathogenic and epidemiologic findings on the virus, such as isolating the virus within a short period and identifying it as a novel coronavirus, as well as confirming the role of the cold chain in aiding the viruss transmission. Effective disease control methods and treatment tools, such as setting up Fangcang shelter hospitals to receive mild cases and applying traditional Chinese medicine, also are listed. Some advances on the list have highlighted the rapid speed of Chinese researchers in sharing the latest knowledge on the virus with the international community, such as sending alerts on the viruss potential to cause a pandemic during the early stages of the outbreak and publishing a number of papers that shed light on improving diagnosis and treatment plans. Chi Hui, head of the academys Institute of Medical Information, said behind each of these selected advances are hard work and the collective will of different research teams as the whole medical science community has been mobilized to tackle the disease. Wang Jianwei, vicepresident of the academy, said these advances have had a farreaching impact on combating the pandemic. For instance, the development of the worlds first animal models for COVID in China have greatly facilitated research into vaccines, he said. The academy has begun compiling and releasing an annual list of significant medical advances since last year.