Recovery slow but achievable for SubSaharan Africa
2021-04-16 19:41
A worker packs alcohol at a liquor store as the sale of alcohol for offsite consumption will be prohibited over the Easter weekend, amid the spread of the COVID, in Johannesburg, South Africa, April , . PhotoAgencies    SubSaharan Africas economies are bound to recover from last years coronavirus shock and grow again this year according to the IMFs sixmonthly economic outlook for the region published on Thursday. The agency attributes its expectation of a slow recovery to a slow delivery of vaccines to Africa and the lack of resources to stimulate economies. In its latest Regional Economic Outlook for SubSaharan Africa report, the IMF says that the path to recovery and overcoming the longlasting effects of the pandemic will be difficult. However, policymakers must strive to deliver vaccines, while restoring the health of public balance sheets harmed by the crisis. Many advanced economies have secured enough vaccine doses to cover their own populations many times over and are looking to the second half of the year with a renewed sense of hope. In Africa, however, with limited purchasing power and few options, many countries will be struggling to simply vaccinate their essential frontline workers this year, and few will achieve widespread availability before , the IMF says in the report. However, the agency says that increased exports, higher commodity prices and a recovery in private consumption and investment are expected to reverse last years average contraction in the regions economies of . percent. Abebe Aemro Selassie, the director of the IMFs African Department, said that since the last assessment of SubSaharan Africas Regional Economic Outlook in October , the region has confronted a second pandemic wave, which outpaced the scale and speed of the first. He added that many countries continue to face or are bracing for further waves, particularly as access to vaccines remains scant. The pandemic has had a devastating impact on the regions economy. The estimated . percent economic contraction in  is somewhat less severe than anticipated last October, but it is still the worst year on record. While the region is projected to grow by . percent in , per capita output is not expected to return to  levels until after , Selassie said. He also noted that restrictions on the dissemination of vaccines or medical equipment should be avoided because faster than anticipated vaccine supply or rollout could boost the regions nearterm prospects.