Indonesia satisfied with effectiveness of Chinese vaccine
2021-04-14 11:12
A healthcare worker inoculates a man with Chinas Sinovac Biotech vaccine for the coronavirus disease COVID during the mass vaccination program at a shopping mall in Jakarta, Indonesia, April , . PhotoAgencies    BEIJING  Indonesias government says it is satisfied with the effectiveness of the Chinese coronavirus vaccine it has been using. Siti Nadia Tarmizi, a spokesperson for Indonesias COVID vaccine program, said Monday that the World Health Organization had found the Chinese vaccines had met requirements by being more than  percent effective. She noted that clinical trials in Indonesia for the vaccine from Chinese drugmaker Sinovac showed it was  percent effective. It means ... the ability to form antibodies in our bodies is still very good, she said. Researchers who conducted Sinovacs clinical trials in Brazil released new data Monday that confirmed the companys previously announced efficacy rate of about  percent. The paper, which was published on a website for scientists and has not yet been peer reviewed, showed that the vaccine was . percent effective against symptomatic COVID cases and much stronger against severe ones. China has distributed hundreds of millions of doses of domestically made vaccines abroad. Tarmizi said Indonesia would wait to see the results of any clinical trials before considering mixing vaccines. We are going to wait, waiting for the clinical trial to ensure the idea or innovation will have better effectiveness, immunogenicity, and efficacy level compared to the current condition, she said. Experts say mixing vaccines, or sequential immunization, might boost effectiveness. Researchers in Britain are studying a possible combination of the Pfizer and the AstraZeneca vaccines. China currently has five vaccines in use in its mass immunization campaign, three inactivatedvirus vaccines from Sinovac and Sinopharm, a oneshot vaccine from CanSino, and a recombinant protein subunit vaccine. The effectiveness of the vaccines range from just over  percent to  percent, based on what the companies have said. Globally, public health experts have said that any vaccine that is  percent effective would be useful, and many governments have been eager to use Chinese vaccines. Agencies via Xinhua