Chinas Sinovac to donate , COVID vaccine doses to CONMEBOL
2021-04-14 09:56
A worker checks the COVID vaccine in the factory of Sinovac in Beijing, on Feb , . PhotoSipa    ASUNCION  Chinas Sinovac Biotech will donate , doses of its COVID vaccine to inoculate footballers in South Americas top competitions this year, regional confederation CONMEBOL said on Tuesday. The deal will facilitate efforts to proceed with a busy  schedule, including the  FIFA World Cup qualifiers and the Copa America, the entity said in a statement. This is a concrete endorsement by the Chinese firm for the holding of the Copa America and other South American football competitions, CONMEBOL president Alejandro Dominguez said, highlighting the efforts of Uruguays President Luis Lacalle Pou to reach an agreement. It is understood the doses will also be used to vaccinate players in the continents leading club tournaments, such as the Copa Libertadores and Copa Sudamericana. Dominguez confirmed the vaccination rollout would focus on the main teams of South American professional football ... in the mens and womens competitions, without providing details. This is the best news the South American football family could receive, the Paraguayan official added. Its a big step forward in beating the COVID pandemic, but it doesnt mean we are going to let our guard down. Dominguez expressed gratitude for Sinovacs understanding that football is a key activity for the economy, culture and mental and physical health of South Americans. Originally scheduled for , the th edition of the Copa America  to be played in Argentina and Colombia  was postponed a year because of the pandemic. The tournament will begin on June  with a clash between Argentina and Chile at the Monumental stadium in Buenos Aires. Paraguay and Bolivia will meet later the same day at the Malvinas Argentinas stadium in Mendoza. Dominguez said he was hopeful the tournament could be played with fans presence despite continued high infection rates and delayed vaccination campaigns. CONMEBOL suspended the fifth and sixth match days of the regions  World Cup qualifiers  originally scheduled for March  because of rising coronavirus cases and deaths. The decision means organizers must find space in an already packed football calendar to reschedule the fixtures. The South American zone qualifiers were already running behind schedule because of coronavirusrelated lockdowns and travel restrictions last year.