Turkey imposes partial closure amid surge in COVID cases
2021-04-14 09:42
A bar employee collects chairs before closing, on the final day of open restaurants and bars before tighter COVID restrictions are enforced, in Istanbul, Turkey April , . PhotoAgencies    ANKARA  Turkish President Tayyip Erdogan on Tuesday announced tightening restrictions to curb the rise in COVID cases, imposing a partial closure for the first two weeks of the Muslim holy month of Ramadan. The recent rise in the number of infections and deaths, especially in big cities, has forced us to tighten up measures once again, Erdogan said at a press conference after a cabinet meeting. The hours of weekday curfew will be extended, intercity travel will be banned excluding urgent cases, and people aged below  and over  will be banned from public transport, he said. Cafes and restaurants will only provide delivery and takeaway services. Indoor activity venues such as wedding halls, sports centers and game halls will close, while most of the grades in schools will return to distance learning. Weekend curfews will continue in highrisk cities. The government will introduce flexible working hours for public servants, and the private sector will also be encouraged to do the same, the president said. These measures will take effect on Wednesday evening and continue for the first two weeks of Ramadan, Erdogan said, adding that the restrictions could further tighten in the second half of Ramadan if the spread of the virus is not under control. Turkey on Tuesday recorded , new cases, registering the highest daily rise since the beginning of the pandemic, according to its health ministry. Among the new cases are , symptomatic patients, and the total number in the country has reached ,,. The death toll from the virus in Turkey rose by  to ,, while the total recoveries climbed to ,, after , more cases recovered in the last  hours. A total of , tests were conducted over the past day, with the overall number of tests in Turkey reaching ,,. The country started mass vaccination against COVID on Jan.  after the authorities approved the emergency use of the Chinese CoronaVac vaccine. More than ,, people have been vaccinated so far. Turkey reported its first COVID case on March , .