Colleges in capital getting their shots
2021-04-14 07:39
Residents receive COVID vaccination at a temporary vaccination site in Beijing, March , . PhotoXinhua    Beijing has centers for foreigners in all  districts, with elderly also a priority More than . percent of college students in Beijing had received novel coronavirus vaccinations by Monday. The capital has been providing vaccination to all residentsincluding foreignerssince the beginning of the year and the municipal government said shots had been given to more than  million people by Monday morning, with around . million doses administered. The city has a population of more than  million. More than . million people have received two doses, while the rest have received their first. People who have taken both doses are considered to have completed the vaccination process. College students from across the nation returned to campuses in March. Beijing launched a mass vaccination effort on March  for college students at  colleges in Haidian district, where most of the citys universities and colleges are located. By Monday, , staff members and students at  colleges in Beijing had been vaccinated. At  colleges, more than  percent of students had received shots. To reduce infection risks, the health authorities sent vaccination teams to colleges. Chen Xingliang, a teacher at Peking University Law School, said he didnt feel any discomfort after receiving the vaccine. The medical staff have been very patient in answering our inquires, he said. China Agricultural University said that in addition to Chinese staff members and students, about  foreign teachers and students received vaccinations on Friday. In Beijing, foreigners can also apply to get vaccinated on their own. Yuriy Kudelya, a Ukrainian who works near the Huilongguan area, said he made a reservation online and then went to a vaccination center. It feels good to be vaccinated, he said. Beijing has set up vaccination centers for foreigners in all  districts. It started vaccinating nine key groups of individuals on Jan  and then began immunizing the general public. After mass vaccinations for people aged between  and , the authorities began vaccinating senior citizens. By Monday, more than . million people aged  or older had been vaccinated. Of those, , were above age . The oldest person vaccinated in Beijing was over , the government said.