G called on to help close inoculation gap
2021-04-13 09:25
A biomedical engineer confirms the consignment of AstraZenecaOxford vaccines under the COVAX scheme against coronavirus disease COVID, before distribution at the Kitengela cold rooms stores in Kitengela, outside Nairobi, Kenya on March , . PhotoAgencies    A former prime minister of the United Kingdom has called on leaders of the G nations to champion a billion global push to ensure a fairer global distribution of novel coronavirus vaccines. Gordon Brown said the world has entered a vaccine apartheid, because a small group of affluent nations control the lions share of treatments, while a significant majority of the developing world remains unprotected against the virus. His comments came days after the World Health Organization condemned a shocking imbalance in the global distribution of vaccines. The former prime minister estimated that poorer nations will require tens of billions of dollars of financial support each year in order to buy enough vaccines. The bigger barrier ahead will not be the shortage of vaccines, however, but the shortage of money to pay for them, Brown wrote in The Guardian. We need to spend now to save lives, and we need to spend tomorrow to carry on vaccinating each year until the disease no longer claims lives. And this will require at least  billion year, a bill no one so far seems willing to fully underwrite. According to the Global Health Innovation Center, highincome countries representing just  percent of the worlds population currently control a confirmed . billion doses of vaccines. In comparison, upper middleincome countries hold . billion doses. Lower middleincome countries hold  million doses. And lowincome countries hold  million. UNICEF estimates that less than  percent of the population of subSaharan Africa has been vaccinated so far. More than onethird of the population of the United States has received at least one dose, and almost half those in the UK has received a first treatment. Brown suggested that the G is best positioned to agree to transfer vaccine technology to lowincome countries. The G is made up of the UK, Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, and the United States. The next G annual summit, which will also be attended by representatives from the European Union, is set for June . We cannot afford to not act, Brown said. The funds needed are a fraction of the trillions COVID is costing us. They are less than  percent of US President Bidens . trillion American Rescue Plan Act. Indeed, it would benefit the US or Europe to underwrite the first  billionnot as an act of charity, but as selfinsurance to protect national interests. If the G came together in June to fund mass vaccination, by , their economies would be at least  billion better off, according to the Eurasia Group. Brown said a temporary waiver on vaccine patents, which is a proposal championed by the Peoples Vaccine Alliance, would help Africa create its own manufacturing facilities and end months of vaccine nationalism. The UK government said it has been a leading donor to the COVAX program, which is a global initiative aimed at ensuring access in poorer nations to novel coronavirus vaccines. Millions of doses have been sent to developing countries through the COVAX scheme already, a UK government spokesperson told the BBC. With our G partners, we will intensify our cooperation on the health response to COVID, including the acceleration of global vaccine development and deployment. The COVAX program has been criticized for its slow rollout, having distributed  million doses in about  countries since February. At a news conference on Friday, the World Health Organization said there remains a shocking imbalance in the global distribution of vaccines. On average, in highincome countries, almost one in four people have received a COVID vaccine. In lowincome countries, its one in more than , said WHO Director General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus. China has actively sought to increase vaccine supply in the developing world, according to Foreign Ministry Spokesperson Wang Wenbin, who confirmed in February that China is providing vaccine aid to  developing countries and has exported or is exporting vaccines to  countries. Chinese vaccines will be made a global public good contributing to the accessibility and affordability of vaccines in developing countries, Wang said.