UN chief deplores failure of multilateralism to fight COVID
2021-04-13 05:25
FILE PHOTO United Nations SecretaryGeneral Antonio Guterres listens a question during a news conference at UN headquarters in New York City, New York, US, November , . PhotoAgencies    UNITED NATIONS  UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres gave a stern assessment Monday of the international communitys failure to mount a coordinated response to the COVID pandemic, saying multilateralism is falling short both on vaccines and economic rescue measures. Advancing an equitable global response and recovery from the pandemic is putting multilateralism to the test, Guterres said in a speech to the global bodys Financing for Development Forum. So far, it is a test we have failed. As an example of the grim picture, the Portuguese national pointed out how just  countries are receiving approximately  percent of the worlds available vaccines. Many countries have yet to start vaccinating their health care workers and most vulnerable citizens, Guterres said. A global vaccine gap threatens everyones health and wellbeing, he added. We need equitable access to vaccines for everyone, everywhere. A similar lack of solidarity on the economic recovery front means massive disparities between countries as they battle against the pandemic, Guterres said. While some nations have mobilized multitrilliondollar relief packages, many developing states face insurmountable debt burdens that will put the UNs Sustainable Development Goals completely out of reach if not corrected, Guterres said. Even in  prior to the pandemic,  countries were spending more on debt service than on education, health, and social services combined, the UN chief said. Development assistance is needed more than ever, and I urge donors and international institutions to step up, he said. Guterres said the United Nations welcomes the Group of s support for an extension of a temporary suspension of debt service repayments, but I urge a further extension into . Since the start of the pandemic a year ago, about  million people have slid back into extreme poverty, while the equivalent of  million fulltime jobs have been lost, Guterres added. AFP