Chile speeds ahead with Chinese vaccines
2021-04-12 09:52
A child looks on as a woman receives a dose of the Sinovac vaccine in Santiago, Chile, last month.IVAN ALVARADOREUTERS    Strong partnership between countries credited for fastest rollout in region Chile is setting a brisk pace with COVID vaccinations, thanks in great measure to jabs developed in China. With more than  percent of the population having received at least one shot, the countrys vaccination campaign has been the standout in Latin America. Chile managed to structure a vaccination program with very positive characteristics, in which the CoronaVac vaccine in particular, manufactured by Chinas Sinovac Biotech has played a leading role, said Juan Esteban Musalem, president of the ChileanChinese Chamber of Commerce, Industry and Tourism. China and Chile have established expeditious channels of health collaboration, reflecting the excellent political and economic ties between the two countries. Chile has administered more than  million jabs, with  million of those from Sinovac and the rest from the PfizerBioNTech partnership. The country has about  million people. Some  million doses of vaccines have arrived in the country, with more on the way, in addition to an existing agreement of understanding to receive  million annual doses during the next three years, Musalem said. This shows the relevance that Chinese vaccines have had in this campaign. Sebastian Ugarte, director of the critical medicine program at Andres Bello University in the Chilean capital Santiago, said The Sinovac vaccine has been key for the vaccination campaign in Chile, given the fact that almost  percent of the people that have been vaccinated in our country received it. The supply and logistics of this vaccine relating to storage is simple, given the range of temperatures that it requires. The availability of  million doses of the vaccine has allowed the country to reach these important figures of vaccination, added Ugarte, who is also an adviser to the World Health Organization. Another approval On Wednesday, the countrys healthcare regulator approved the emergency use of a vaccine developed by CanSino Biologics of China. It is an endorsement of the vaccination program that the government is currently running, and which seeks to cover over  percent of the target population, said Heriberto Garcia, interim director of the Public Health Institute of Chile. CanSinos vaccine, which has also been approved in China, Mexico and Pakistan, became the fourth COVID vaccine to be authorized in Chile. The first batch is expected to arrive by early next month. The CanSino vaccine requires a single dose, the Public Health Institute of Chile said in announcing the emergency approval. It was developed by CanSino with the Beijing Institute of Biotechnology and the National Research Council of Canada. The Sinovac vaccine remains the key plank in the countrys strategy amid stillhigh levels of infections. Efficacy and ease of distribution were key reasons for the vaccines success, said Lorena Bustos, director of LabCom, a healthcare public relations firm in Santiago. Chile has seen a surge in demand for intensive care beds as COVID infections rise. However, people who have completed the twodose schedule are showing positive results. While the spread of the virus keeps rising in all of the age groups, the spread in the group of people older than  years is going down, said Juan Cristobal Olivares, a software engineer who has been computermodeling pandemic data. The writer is a freelance journalist for China Daily.