Ireland to impose mandatory quarantine on travelers from  countries, regions
2021-04-11 19:52
Garda Irish police officers monitor drivers to check if they have a valid reason for travel, amid the outbreak of the coronavirus disease COVID, at a checkpoint outside Dublin Airport, Ireland, Jan , . PhotoAgencies    DUBLIN  People arriving in Ireland from the United States and  other countries and regions will have to complete a day mandatory quarantine at a governmentdesignated facility starting from  am Irish time on April , according to a latest decision of the Irish government. The  countries and regions, which are deemed as high risk for COVID transmission, include the United States, Canada and Bermuda in North America France, Italy, Belgium, Luxembourg, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Turkey, Ukraine and Armenia in Europe Pakistan, Bangladesh and Maldives in Asia Kenya in Africa and Curacao in South America, according to a list published on the government website. People coming from or through the abovelisted areas must prebook their accommodation at a governmentdesignated hotel online and make the payment for their accommodation and food in advance, according to the relevant regulations. The standard rate for an adult is , euros about , for the quarantine period. Those who refuse to be quarantined or leave the designated hotel for mandatory quarantine without authorization will face a fine of , euros, or a sentence of onemonth imprisonment, or both. People can leave the designated facility for mandatory quarantine if they are tested negative on the tenth day of their arrival in Ireland. Diplomats, aircrew and maritime crew, among others, can be exempted from such a mandatory quarantine if they can meet the other public health requirements of Ireland. Ireland started to implement a mandatory hotel quarantine regime on March . To date, a total of  countries and regions have been placed by the Irish government on a list which requires a mandatory quarantine for travelers coming from these areas. The list, which is subject to change, can be found on various websites of the Irish authorities including the Department of Foreign Affairs. The Irish Department of Health on Saturday night said that a total of , people had been infected with COVID in Ireland and , of them had died from the virus. As of April , a total of ,, people in the country had been partially or fully vaccinated against COVID, accounting for over  percent of Irelands total population, according to the department. Vaccines developed by PfizerBioNTech, Moderna and AstraZeneca are being used in Ireland with Johnson  Johnsons singleshot vaccine to be available here soon. As the world is struggling to contain the pandemic, vaccination is underway in an increasing number of countries with the alreadyauthorized coronavirus vaccines. Meanwhile,  candidate vaccines are still being developed   of them in clinical trials  in countries including Germany, China, Russia, Britain and the United States, according to information released by the World Health Organization on Friday.  euro  .