Most Canadians concerned about being sick with COVID
2021-04-10 10:32
FILE PHOTO Healthcare workers prepare to test passengers as they arrive at Torontos Pearson airport after mandatory coronavirus disease COVID testing took effect for international arrivals in Mississauga, Ontario, Canada Feb , . PhotoAgencies    OTTAWA  Twothirds of Canadians say they are concerned about becoming sick with COVID, a fourpoint increase from March, according to a survey issued by Canadas Angus Reid Institute on Friday. Meanwhile, four out of five were worried about a family member or friend. One out of three said their mental health was poor or terrible. The figure rises to half among those who are under  years old. The survey, which was conducted from April  to , reflects growing frustration among Canadians who had hoped these spring months would signal the end of the pandemic but instead face a growing threat from rapidly spreading variants of the virus in the country. Up to date, the COVID variants appear to be winning as their virulence outpaces any reduction in spread from Canadas vaccination program. As of Friday afternoon, Canada reported , new cases of COVID, bringing the cumulative total to ,,, including , deaths, according to CTV. Over the past week, there have been an average of over , new cases and  deaths reported daily and the number of people experiencing severe and critical illness continues to rise, according to the Public Health Agency of Canada. Also as of Friday afternoon, a cumulative total of , cases of variants have been reported across Canada, with the B... variant continuing to account for over  percent. This includes , B... variant, , P. variant, and  B.. variant. The COVID third wave has brought new rounds of restrictions on travel and businesses in Canadas most populous provinces and has spurred near equal intensity between those who want to see their communities lockdown even harder, and those fatigued by an inability to resume their prepandemic lives. About  percent of Canadians said their communities need tighter restrictions to stem rising infections, while  percent disagree.  percent said their community has found the right balance. As the countrys provinces adjust to rising daily case counts and the logistical challenges of mass inoculation, new data from the nonprofit Angus Reid Institute finds Canadians increasingly disappointed in their leaders. About  percent of Canadians said that Prime Minister Justin Trudeau has done a good job of handling the pandemic, while  percent considered that he has done a poor job. The survey also shows that threequarters of Canadians in the western province of Alberta said their premier is doing a poor job handling the pandemic. In the hardhit province of Ontario,  percent held the same poor opinion. In Manitoba, the figure was  percent and in Saskatchewan,  percent.