SP , Dow scale new heights, Treasury yields rise on strong inflation data
2021-04-10 05:04
A Wall Street sign is pictured in Manhattan. PhotoAgencies    NEW YORK  The SP  and the Dow notched record closing highs on Friday after solid US inflation data and an uptick in Treasury yields suggested the economic recovery from the pandemicrelated recession was gaining momentum. It was a fairly quiet Friday with low volume, a welcome change from  months ago, said David Carter, chief investment officer at Lenox Wealth Advisors in New York. Today was all about inflation, Carter added. Despite todays higher PPI number, equity markets are starting to begrudgingly believe the Fed is in no rush to raise interest rates. All three major US stock indexes posted weekly gains as upbeat economic data boosted risk appetite ahead of firstquarter earnings. Transports, seen as a proxy for economic health, advanced for their th week in a row. Cyclical parts of the market like transports are being driven higher due to strong vaccination rates in the US, which suggests the economic reopening may accelerate, Carter said. A Labor Department report showed producer prices rose last month at twice the speed of Februarys growth, reviving some inflation worries. US Federal Reserve Chairman Jerome Powell offered assurances on Thursday that the central bank is far more concerned about the recent uptick in COVID infections than inflationary pressures. Powell is not overly concerned about longterm inflation, said Ryan Detrick, senior market strategist at LPL Financial in Charlotte, North Carolina. The Fed has stressed from the very beginning these increases will be transitory. The Dow Jones Industrial Average rose . points, or ., to ,., the SP  gained . points, or ., to ,. and the Nasdaq Composite added . points, or ., to ,.. European stocks ended nominally higher, but marked their longest winning streak since November  on rising hopes of a rapid economic rebound. The panEuropean STOXX  index rose . and MSCIs gauge of stocks across the globe gained .. Emerging market stocks lost .. MSCIs broadest index of AsiaPacific shares outside Japan closed . lower, while Japans Nikkei rose .. US Treasury yields rose in the wake of the PPI report, which provided further evidence that the worlds largest economy was on a stable road to recovery from the pandemic. Benchmark year notes last fell  in price to yield ., from . late on Thursday. The year bond last fell  in price to yield ., from . late on Thursday. The dollar inched higher against a basket of world currencies as inflation data lifted bond yields, but the greenback had its softest week of the year due to betterthanexpected economic data and the dovish Fed. The dollar index rose ., with the euro down . to .. The Japanese yen weakened . versus the greenback at . per dollar, while Sterling was last trading at ., down . on the day. Crude oil prices dropped on rising supply amid a mixed picture on demand recovery from the COVID slump. US crude dipped . to settle at . per barrel, while Brent crude settled at . per barrel, falling . on the day. Gold withdrew from Thursdays onemonth peak, weighed down by a rebounding dollar and rising Treasury yields. Still, the safehaven metal appears headed for its first weekly gain in three. Spot gold dropped . to ,. an ounce. Reuters