US shows appalling US human rights record in wake of COVID
2021-04-09 10:00
A woman raises her arms as riot police fire tear gas during a protest outside the th Police Precinct in Minneapolis, the United States, on May , . PhotoXinhua    WASHINGTON  Based on fabricated materials, the United States has once again wantonly slandered other countries by releasing the socalled  Country Reports on Human Rights Practices. In fact, the United States, with its own human rights problems piling up, has earned itself a tainted human rights record in the past four years. From postelection riots to deeprooted racist problems and an incompetent pandemic response, the appalling facts have completely unmasked the selfproclaimed defender of human rights. AMERICAN DEMOCRACY IN DISORDER Disorder in American democratic institutions led to political chaos, further tearing the fabric of society apart. Moneytainted politics distorted and suppressed public opinion, turning elections into a oneman show of the wealthy class. According to an analysis by the Brennan Center for Justice at New York University, dark money groups poured more than  million US dollars into  elections through ad spending and recordbreaking contributions to political committees such as super political action committees. According to a commentary carried by the Wall Street Journal on Nov. , , the  US election can be seen as the culmination of a twodecade period of decline in faith in the basic building blocks of democracy. Gun trade and shooting incidents hit a record high, and peoples confidence in social order waned. The shooting incidents have rekindled the debate over gun control in the United States. However, over the past years, political division and partisan fights have complicated the issue and made the process fruitless. RAMPANT RACISM In the United States, ethnic minority groups have been suffering systematic racial discrimination and are in a difficult situation. The murder trial of former police officer Derek Chauvin charged with killing African American George Floyd in late May last year officially got underway in Minneapolis, Minnesota last month. Young black males in recent years were at a far greater risk of being shot dead by police than their white counterparts   times greater, according to federal data. The data also showed that blacks, age  to , were killed at a rate of . per million, while just . per million white males in that age range died at the hands of police. However, police officers in the United States who enforce laws with violence are usually not brought to justice. Moreover, African Americans are not the only victims of racism in the United States. Since the outbreak of the pandemic, some Washington politicians have been manipulating racist rhetoric and sentiments by linking the deadly pathogen to specific ethnic groups, leading to increasing violence and hatred against Asian Americans. GROWING POLARIZATION BETWEEN RICH, POOR In the United States, the gap between the rich and the poor has widened, with the people at the bottom of society living in misery. The pandemic led to mass unemployment in the country. Tens of millions of people lost health insurance coverage. One in six Americans and one in four American children were at risk of hunger. Vulnerable groups became the biggest victims of the governments reckless response to the pandemic. Experts believe that the pandemic has exacerbated the survival crisis of the people at the bottom of US society, but the problem of inequity in wealth distribution in the country has long existed and is worsening, thus triggering social and political unrest. INCOMPETENT PANDEMIC CONTAINMENT Due to the governments reckless response, COVID in the United States has spiraled out of control and turned into a human tragedy. By the end of February , the United States, home to less than  percent of the worlds population, accounted for more than a quarter of the worlds confirmed COVID cases and nearly onefifth of the global deaths from the disease. In a documentary that aired on CNN, Deborah Birx, the White House coronavirus task force coordinator under former US President Donald Trump, said the biggest mistake the federal government made in handling the pandemic was not providing consistent messaging. TRAMPLING ON INTERNATIONAL RULES In the past four years, the United States has persisted in pursuing an agenda of America first, isolationism and unilateralism, thus becoming the biggest threat to global security and stability. In June , the United States brazenly announced its withdrawal from the United Nations UN Human Rights Council. John Bolton, former US national security advisor, and former US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, warned in September  and in March  respectively that if the International Criminal Court ICC went ahead with investigating personnel from the United States and its allies, the United States would impose retaliatory measures against the personnel that were directly responsible for the investigations such as a ban on their entry to the United States, fund freezes and even economic sanctions on the ICC. From July  to July , in violation of international human rights laws and international humanitarianism, the US immigration authorities have forcibly separated more than , children from their parents who are refugees or illegal immigrants in the southern border area, causing the painful separation of families as well as many child deaths in custody. In , a total of , immigrants were arrested in the southern border area of the United States. Most of them suffered rough, insulting treatment and their human rights were trampled on. Due to its governments ineffective antipandemic efforts, the United States has unfortunately seen itself become the most seriouslyaffected country during the COVID pandemic in , and its immigrant detention centers are the most severelyaffected places in the country. Ignoring the risk of spreading the virus, the US government has even forcibly repatriated a large number of illegal immigrants, which has put the people in Central America at higher risk of contracting COVID. During the justended th session of the United Nations Human Rights Council, some countries representatives have accused the United States of pursuing vaccine nationalism. Over the years, the US armed interventions have caused large numbers of civilian casualties in other countries. The US unilateral coercive measures against certain countries have gravely violated human rights and even caused humanitarian crises.