Texas takes them out to the ballgame
2021-04-08 11:27
Fans attend a game between the Toronto Blue Jays and the Texas Rangers in the sixth inning at Globe Life Field on April ,  in Arlington, Texas. PhotoAgencies    A major league baseball stadium in Texas this week became the latest political battlefield over the approach to the coronavirus. The Texas Rangers welcomed , fans  near capacity  at Globe Life Park in Arlington on Monday for opening day against the Toronto Blue Jays. The stadiums retractable roof was open on a degree day face coverings were required except when fans were eating or drinking. Attendance topped that at two Florida events in February  the Daytona  auto race which allowed in a little more than , fans and NFL Super Bowl LV , in Tampa  making it the largest crowd at an American sporting event since the COVID pandemic began last year. President Joe Biden and his chief medical adviser Dr Anthony Fauci have voiced disapproval of the Rangers filling the stadium. I think its a mistake, Biden said last week. They should listen to Fauci, scientists and experts. I think its not responsible. When Texas Governor Greg Abbott announced on March  that the state was dropping mask mandates and opening at  percent, Biden called the move Neanderthal thinking. Were very confident we wont be a superspreader event, Neil Leibman, the Rangers CEO and president of business operations, said last month shortly after the governor lifted pandemic restrictions. With all the protocols that were following, well be extremely responsible and provide a very comfortable environment for somebody to enjoy the game without worrying were going to be a spreader event. The Rangers are the only MLB team to operate their stadium near  percent capacity, while the Houston Astros are second at  percent, although the Rangers have said they may not stay at the high level. The club said that it will have distancedseating sections at the  billion stadium, which opened in  and was the site of last years World Series. I think its great, Pug Landrum told ABCTV affiliate WFAA in Dallas of the open ballpark. We cant stay shut up forever. Im not going to live in fear my whole life. The New York Mets, by contrast, are requiring fans attending games to either be fully vaccinated or show proof of a negative coronavirus test. New cases of COVID in the United States rose  percent to more than , last week, the third week in a row that infections had increased, according to a Reuters analysis of state and county data. Datawise, Texas is smack in the middle of the US  th  in coronavirus cases per , people, with , as of April , but the numbers are trending down. The Lone Star State reported a . percent drop in coronavirus cases in the week ending Sunday, with , new cases compared with the previous weeks ,, according to the Johns Hopkins University Coronavirus Resource Center. There were , people hospitalized in the state with COVID as of Saturday, the lowest number since June . Even though everybody has COVID fatigue and wants to get back to normality, you know, you see the pictures of a Texas Rangers stadium essentially crowded, we dont want to declare victory prematurely, because we have a virus out there now, this variant that spreads really quite efficiently, Fauci told MSNBC on Tuesday. Im not really sure, it could be because theyre doing things outdoors, you know its very difficult to just oneonone compare that, Fauci said of Texas drop in cases. I hope they continue to tick down if they do, that would be great. Weve been fooled before with places opening up, then nothing happens, but all of a sudden a few weeks later cases explode on you, Fauci said. Time will tell whether Texas has made the right call. Reuters contributed to this story.