Experts lay bare inequality, disorganization of US health care
2021-04-07 16:54
A view of the campus of Massachusetts Institute of Technology in Cambridge, Massachusettson July , . PhotoAgencies    BEIJING  Seven researchers with Massachusetts Institute of Technology MIT spoke up on the existing inequality and disorder in Americas health care system, calling for reflection and changes. The researchers, with various disciplinary backgrounds including medicine, anthropology, political science, health economics, science writing and medical humanities, put down their opinions in an article published Monday on MIT news website. Their arguments most conspicuously underscore health inequality in the United States, and the unpreparedness and disarray of the countrys health care system as a whole. The spread of the virus revealed shortages in basic equipment and hospitals beds, the disproportionate effects of disease on the marginalized, the challenge of prevention rather than cure, the limits of insurancebased models to provide equitable care, and our unacknowledged dependence on the labor of underpaid health care workers, said Dwaipayan Banerjee, MITs associate professor of science, technology, and society. The pandemics greatest significance lies in its revelation of the racism permeating in Americas social and economic policy, said Andrea Campbell, professor of political science. It has been too easy for healthy, financially stable, often white Americans to think the vulnerable are residual. The pandemic has revealed the American health care system to be a nonsystem, said Jeffrey Harris, professor emeritus of economics and a practicing physician, pointing to the uncoordinated occupancy rates in New York hospitals and the countrys inability to distribute vaccines efficiently and equitably. Medical Professor Erica Caple James questioned policymakers who, aware of the fact that disease and death fall disproportionately in marginal populations, make decisions that deepen the risks of vulnerable groups, urging that American health infrastructure should be improved. Economics Professor Parag Pathak hopes that the pandemic could spur renewed focus on protecting the disadvantaged, who have borne the brunt of COVID, while arguing that the EastAsian style, centralized and coordinated health systems are more equipped to manage population health, especially during a pandemic. African Americans are three times as likely as whites to be infected with the virus, and twice as likely to die from it, according to a report by the National Urban League. The United States has seen a rise in new cases in  states, including cases from new and emerging COVID variants. The sevenday average of new COVID cases now stands at , cases a day, according to data from the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.