Poverty Alleviation Chinas Experience and Contribution
2021-04-07 07:14
Farmers at Aobei village in Huichang county, Jiangxi province, harvest tangelos on Dec .ZHU HAIPENGFOR CHINA DAILY    Editors Note The State Council Information Office of the Peoples Republic of China on Tuesday released a white paper titled Poverty Alleviation Chinas Experience and Contribution. Full text below Contents Preface I. The Solemn Commitment of the CPC II. Final Victory in the Fight Against Extreme Poverty III. The Strategy of Targeted Poverty Alleviation IV. Exploring a New Path of Poverty Alleviation V. A Global Community of Shared Future Free from Poverty Conclusion Appendix Preface Poverty is a chronic affliction of human society and a common challenge faced by the whole world. Poverty and its associated problems, including hunger, diseases, and social conflicts, are serious impediments to peoples pursuit of a better life, so the eradication of poverty has always been a wish to be fulfilled. The history of humankind is the history of relentless struggle against poverty. China is the worlds largest developing country, with a population of . billion. In addition to its weak foundations and uneven development, the nation had long been plagued by poverty at a scale and a level of severity that has rarely been seen anywhere else in the world. As a result, the challenge of poverty alleviation in China almost defies imagination. This year marks the th anniversary of the founding of the Communist Party of China CPC. Over the past century, the Party has united and led the Chinese people in the battle against poverty with unwavering faith and will. Since the th CPC National Congress in , the Party Central Committee, with General Secretary Xi Jinping at the core, has fought a decisive battle against poverty that is unprecedented in scale and intensity, and has benefited the largest number of people in human history. At a grand gathering held on February , , to mark Chinas achievements in poverty alleviation and to honor its model fighters against poverty, General Secretary Xi solemnly declared Victory in the battle against poverty is complete, and China completed the arduous task of eliminating extreme poverty. China is home to nearly one fifth of the worlds population. Its complete eradication of extreme povertythe first target of the UN  Agenda for Sustainable Development years ahead of schedule, is a milestone in the history of the Chinese nation and the history of humankind, making an important contribution to the cause of global poverty alleviation. Poverty is not predestined, nor is it unconquerable. Chinas experience in poverty alleviation indicates that courage, vision, sense of responsibility, and the eagerness to take on challenges are the most essential. With strong will and determination, as well as practical action, one can make steady progress towards overcoming poverty and realizing common prosperity. This white paper is being issued to record the course of the Chinese peoples great fight in eliminating extreme poverty, introduce Chinas approach, and share its experience and actions in poverty alleviation. I. The Solemn Commitment of the CPC The Chinese nation has a long history, diligent and intelligent people and splendid civilization. Over the history of thousands of years, eliminating poverty has been the persistent goal of the Chinese people, who suffered hardships and difficulties frequently. From the middle of the th century, foreign aggression and the decadence of the imperial dynasty reduced China to a semicolonial, semifeudal society, and hundreds of millions of its people were plunged into poverty or even extreme poverty. But the Chinese people have fought with fortitude to realize their dreamachieving economic prosperity, national rejuvenation, and a happy and better life. . The CPC Led the People to Win Victory in the Revolution, Build the Peoples Republic of China PRC, Opening a New Journey Towards Prosperity The founding of the CPC in July  was an epochal event in Chinas history. The CPC has taken the happiness of the people and rejuvenation of the nation as its aspiration since its founding, and united and led the people to fight for a better life over the decades. The Partys first generation of central collective leadership under Mao Zedong regarded the liberation of peasants as the fundamental issue of the revolution, led the people to launch the Agrarian Revolution to realize the goal of the land to the tiller, overthrew the rule of imperialism, feudalism, and bureaucratcapitalism, and won victory in the New Democratic Revolution and established the PRC, bringing an end to sustained oppression, exploitation of the people, frequent wars, and partitioning of the country, and realizing the goals of national independence and peoples liberation. This helped to remove the obstacles to Chinas progress, and created the political conditions it needed to eradicate poverty, regain national strength, and realize prosperity for everyone. The founding of the PRC on October , , allowed the Chinese people to stand upright and become the true masters of the country. To change the backward situation starting from scratch, the CPC united and led the people to rely on themselves and strived to build their homeland with strong determination and concerted effort. Land reform was rolled out across the country, abolishing the feudal land system that had endured for over , years. This removed the major institutional obstacle to eliminating poverty. Socialist transformation was carried out in agriculture, individual craft industries, and capitalist industry and commerce. The establishment of the socialist system provided a basic institutional guarantee for addressing the root causes of poverty. Socialist development was carried out on all fronts, creating an independent and rather complete industrial system and economic system. Efforts were made to develop the collective economy, improve farmland irrigation and water conservation, and develop rural education and cooperative medical services. A preliminary social security system took shape, with the collective economy at the base, and the five guarantees  and relief for people in extreme poverty as the core. The Chinese peopleincluding the farmerswho made up nearly one quarter of the worlds population, saw their basic living needs met. Their living standards and educational level improved. Socialist building during this period pressed ahead amidst successes and setbacks. .The National Agricultural Development Program  specified that agricultural cooperatives should give proper care to commune members who could not work and had no family to support them, by providing them with proper food, clothing, fuel, and education for children and teenagers, and by paying their burial expenses. . Reform and Opening Up Accelerated Development and Poverty Alleviation in China Held in December , the Third Plenary Session of the th CPC Central Committee ushered in a new chapter of reform and opening up and socialist modernization in China. Reform and opening up has been another great revolution in the history of the Chinese people and Chinese nation, injecting momentum and innovation. The rapid socioeconomic development that ensued gave a vigorous boost to poverty alleviation, and resulted in a sharp decline in the impoverished population. In the initial period of reform and opening up, confronted by the grim challenge of a large rural impoverished population base and a high incidence of poverty, the second generation of the central collective leadership headed by Deng Xiaoping issued a declaration that Poverty is not socialism socialism means eliminating poverty. It set the goal of ensuring the people a moderately prosperous life by the end of the th century, formulated a threestep strategic plan , and articulated the vision of Two Development Strategies . A swathe of major reforms involving agriculture and rural areas were launched, providing for a massive, planned, wellorganized poverty alleviation effort at the national level. The twotier management system adopted in the rural areas, integrating cooperative management with household contract management, clarified the most basic production relations and inspired the farmers enthusiasm, bringing an end to a period of protracted stagnation in agricultural output. Reform of the distribution system for agricultural products was enacted. A major effort was made to develop township enterprises in order to increase overall incomes in rural areas. Special poverty alleviation agencies were set up, poverty standards were set, key impoverished areas and counties were identified, and a special plan for agricultural development in the three western regions  was launched. These measures liberated the rural productive forces, released vitality, boosted economic development, increased farmers incomes, and updated their mindsets. Developmentdriven poverty alleviation opened a new chapter in China. . The th CPC National Congress proposed that a threestep strategic plan for Chinas economic development would be laid out after the Third Plenary Session of the th CPC Central Committee doubling the  GNP by the end of the s and ensuring that the people would have adequate food and clothing as the first step doubling the  GNP by the end of the th century and ensuring the people a moderately prosperous life as the second step and increasing the per capita GNP level to that of moderately developed countries, ensuring the people a relatively affluent life, and realizing basic modernization by the middle of the st century as the third step. . In , Deng Xiaoping proposed that The coastal areas, which comprise a vast region with a population of  million, should accelerate their opening to the outside world, and we should help them develop rapidly first afterwards they can promote the development of the interior. The development of the coastal areas is of overriding importance, and the interior provinces should subordinate themselves to it. When the coastal areas have developed to a certain extent, they will be required to give more help to the interior. Then, the development of the interior provinces will be of overriding importance, and the coastal areas will in turn have to subordinate themselves to it. Source The Central Leadership Must Have Authority, Selected Works of Deng Xiaoping, Vol III. .The three western regions were Hexi Region and Dingxi Region in Gansu Province and the mountainous region in southern Ningxia Hui Autonomous Region, the most impoverished contiguous areas in the country at the beginning of reform and opening up. In December , China launched poverty alleviation initiatives in these regions to boost their agricultural development. This involved  counties, cities and districts which expanded to  in . It was a groundbreaking project in Chinas poverty alleviation efforts. It set a precedent in regional poverty alleviation, accumulating rich experience in moving from reliefbased poverty alleviation to developmentdriven poverty alleviation, pooling resources for the development of impoverished areas, for poverty alleviation through relocation, and for combining developmentdriven poverty alleviation with developing the ecoeconomy. These successful measures have had a profound influence on massive, planned, wellorganized poverty alleviation efforts across the country starting from . By the early s, there had been visible progress in poverty alleviation in rural areas. In the meantime, poverty had evolved from a widespread problem into one afflicting particular regions, groups and populations, highlighting the problem of uneven regional development. The Partys third generation of central collective leadership with Comrade Jiang Zemin at the core formulated a threestep development strategic plan , put forward the goal of achieving moderate prosperity in all respects, and continued to press ahead with massive national campaigns on poverty alleviation. In , the State Council launched the Priority Poverty Alleviation Program , Chinas first ever national poverty alleviation program with definite goals, targets, measures and deadlines. It committed to ensuring that the basic needs of  million impoverished rural residents would be met in the seven years from  to . In , the central authorities held the National Conference on Developmentdriven Poverty Alleviation, further clarifying the steadfast commitment to the goal of being able to provide adequate food and clothing for the impoverished people by the end of the th century and confirming the shift from reliefbased poverty alleviation to developmentdriven poverty alleviation. In , the central authorities held the National Conference on Developmentdriven Poverty Alleviation, making plans to ensure success of the Priority Poverty Alleviation Program. Another conference on poverty alleviation was convened in , and the State Council issued the Outline of Developmentdriven Poverty Alleviation in Rural Areas . On the basis of initial progress of Chinas poverty alleviation, the campaign continued with further measures. By the end of , the impoverished population in rural areas had been reduced to . million and the incidence of poverty down to ., based on the poverty alleviation standard at the time. .The th CPC National Congress held in  drew up a new threestep strategic plan. The first step involved doubling the  GNP, giving the people greater prosperity, and putting in place a relatively complete socialist market economy system, all by the end of . The second step involved working hard for another decade to further develop the economy by the centenary of the CPC, and to improve all relevant systems. The third step involved realizing basic modernization and developing China into a modern socialist country that is prosperous, strong, democratic, and culturally advanced by the time we celebrate the centenary of the PRC in the middle of the st century. In the st century, the CPC Central Committee with Comrade Hu Jintao as General Secretary embraced the Scientific Outlook on Development. Its goals were to advance the development of a harmonious society, build a moderately prosperous society in all respects, and facilitate the development of a new socialist countryside. It enacted a new series of poverty alleviation policies and measures. This resulted in major adjustments to the focus and targets of poverty alleviation work, listing the central and western regions as the priority region, and choosing as individual targets , impoverished villages besides the  key counties, where the full participation of villagers in poverty alleviation efforts was encouraged. A whole range of efforts were directed to business development, the training and transfer of rural labor, poverty alleviation through relocation, and relocation for the development of the ecoeconomy. State strategy of regional development was implemented, such as developing west China, revitalizing old industrial bases in the northeast, and stimulating the rise of the central region. These achieved coordinated development between regions and between rural and urban areas. The Agricultural Tax was abolished and a series of rural social security systems such as the new cooperative medical care system were established, greatly easing the burden on farmers. The National Conference on Developmentdriven Poverty Alleviation in  made plans for a new phase in the battle against poverty to ensure that moderate prosperity in all respects would be achieved by . After the meeting, the CPC Central Committee and the State Council issued the Outline of Developmentdriven Poverty Alleviation in Rural Areas . Chinas poverty alleviation effort had evolved from its primary missionmeeting the basic needs of the poorto a new stage of consolidating this achievement, accelerating poverty alleviation, improving the ecoenvironment, increasing development capacity, and bridging the development gap. By the end of , according to the poverty standard, the impoverished rural population had been reduced to . million, and the incidence of poverty had fallen to .. In , the standard was raised to RMB,, and accordingly the poor population was  million. . China in a New Era and a New Battle Against Poverty China marched into a new era after the th CPC National Congress in . The country reached a critical stage in building a moderately prosperous society in all respects and achieving the First Centenary Goal. Rapid economic and social development, a marked increase in comprehensive national strength, a better social security system, and progress in modernizing Chinas system and capacity for governance provided solid manpower, material, and financial foundations and strong institutional support for its poverty alleviation efforts. But the country still faced a daunting challenge since it had to solve the most difficult problems in raising the poorest population out of poverty in the coming period. Chinas battle against extreme poverty had entered the toughest stage. It was hard to complete the task with conventional approaches and ideas. To achieve the goal of poverty alleviation, the nation had to pull together with greater determination, sharper thinking, more targeted measures, and extraordinary efforts. The CPC Central Committee with Comrade Xi Jinping at the core takes the desire of the people for a better life as its goal. It has committed to realizing the Chinese Dream of national rejuvenation and securing a decisive victory in building a moderately prosperous society in all respects. Poverty alleviation, a key task and index of the realization of the First Centenary Goal, has been included in the Fivesphere Integrated Plan and the Fourpronged Comprehensive Strategy. The CPC set the goals that by  it would help all the rural population out of poverty as defined by the existing standard, raise all impoverished counties out of poverty, and eliminate poverty over entire regionsmobilizing the whole Party, the whole country, and all sectors of society to engage in this battle. President Xi Jinping, always concerned about impoverished regions and families in straitened circumstances, has always put poverty alleviation at the top of his work agenda and devoted much of his energy to it. He has presented a series of important ideas and proposals, and made some major policy decisions. The th CPC National Congress in  set the goal of building a moderately prosperous society in all respects. Soon after that, Xi enunciated, To achieve initial prosperity in the countryside, it is essential to raise rural living standards and particularly those of impoverished villagers. Launching the campaign against poverty in the new era, he also emphasized, No single poor area or single poor person should be left behind in achieving this goal. In , on his inspection tour to Shibadong Village, Huayuan County, Hunan Province, Xi proposed for the first time the concept of giving differentiated guidance for targeted poverty alleviation in line with local conditions by seeking truth from facts. In , while attending the deliberation session of the Guizhou delegation at the Second Plenary Session of the th National Peoples Congress, Xi stated, Inspection tours must be conducted to identify the truly poor. Poverty alleviation must reach those who truly need it, and poverty must be fully eliminated. In , at the National Conference on Developmentdriven Poverty Alleviation, he sounded the bugle call to battle, We should be determined, dedicate ourselves, and work hard towards the goal. In , in the report to the th CPC National Congress, Xi emphasized the need to mobilize the energies of the whole Party, the whole country, and the whole of society to win the battle against extreme poverty and eradicate it, Ensuring that poor people and poor areas will enter the moderately prosperous society together with the rest of the country is a solemn promise made by our Party We must win the battle against poverty. In , faced with the sudden attack of Covid, Xi mapped out new plans for mobilization at a seminar on poverty alleviation, emphasizing that lifting poor people in the rural areas out of poverty must be achieved as scheduled. It is nonnegotiable. This is a tough battle with no route of retreat. We must double our efforts till the last minute. We must not pause, slacken off or be negligent. He asked the whole Party to perform well in this difficult test, to apply more determination and more vigor, and to be confident of bringing the battle to a successful end. President Xi Jinping has assumed leadership, made plans, and directed the battle in person. He has attended the National Conference on Developmentdriven Poverty Alleviation, and presided over seven seminars on poverty elimination. He has made over  factfinding trips. In every one of the last five years, he has reviewed the evaluation reports of the poverty alleviation work. In every one of the last seven years, he has attended important events or issued directives on the National Poverty Alleviation Day. In every one of the last seven years, he has expounded on the fight against extreme poverty in his New Year address. In every one of the last eight years, he has discussed plans for the battle against poverty with delegates during the Two Sessions and written letters to encourage grassroots officials and communities to engage in the great fight. He has visited every one of the  contiguous poor areas across the country and over  poor villages, and sat in the homes of impoverished households to hear of their difficulties, suggestions, and needs, building up their confidence and determination, and their belief that they can work their way out of poverty. On February , , at the National Poverty Alleviation Summary and Commendation Conference, he declared that China had secured a comprehensive victory in the fight against poverty, and completed the arduous task of eradicating extreme povertyan outstanding and historic achievement. The strenuous process whereby the CPC has led the Chinese people in the battle against poverty has been extraordinary and difficult. Over the past  years, the Party has committed itself to the original aspiration of seeking happiness for the people, taken on its responsibility for the people, honored its promise to the people, and made huge sacrifices in fighting to win national independence and peoples liberation, to make China prosperous and strong, and to bring common prosperity to all. In the process it has won the support and trust of the people. Over the past  years the Chinese people, under the leadership of the CPC, have never faltered in pursuit of progress, have put in unimaginable efforts, and have relied on themselves to eradicate extreme poverty, and march towards shared allround prosperity. Over the past  years, under the leadership of the CPC, China has stood tall, become prosperous, and grown in overall national strength. The protection of the rights to subsistence and development, and the promotion of equality and justice have laid solid foundations for wellrounded human development. II. Final Victory in the Fight Against Extreme Poverty Chinas fight against poverty entered a critical stage after the th CPC National Congress in . At the end of , through eight years of hard work, China achieved the goal of eliminating extreme povertya key goal for the new era of building socialism with Chinese characteristics. The . million people in rural areas who were living below the current poverty threshold all shook off poverty Figure  all the , impoverished villages and  designated poor counties got rid of poverty Figure . China has eliminated poverty over entire regions and eradicated extreme poverty. The battle against poverty has been another great revolution in rural China, leading to historic and comprehensive changes. The campaign saw an end to the backwardness of povertystricken areas, boosted overall rural development, resolved the greatest threat to success in achieving moderate prosperity in all respects, and laid a solid foundation for building a modern socialist China and realizing the Second Centenary Goal. China has secured a complete victory in the battle against extreme poverty, eliminating overall and extreme poverty for the first time in its history of thousands of years, and realizing a centurylong aspiration of the Chinese people. . Significant Improvement in the Living Standards of the Poor Through poverty alleviation, there has been a substantial improvement in the incomes and welfare of the poor. The Two Assurances and Three Guarantees  have been realized education, healthcare, housing and drinking water supplies are much improved. These provisions have covered all basic needs and laid the foundations for future development. The fight against poverty has led to dramatic changes in the lives of the impoverished. .This refers to assurances of adequate food and clothing, and guarantees of access to compulsory education, basic medical services and safe housing for impoverished rural residents. The incomes of the impoverished are increasing Figure . The per capita disposable income of the rural poor increased from RMB, in  to RMB, in , up by . per annum on average. The growth rate was . percentage points higher than the national rural average. Their salary income and operative income kept increasing over the years in proportion to their transfer income, showing a stronger ability to shake off poverty through their own efforts. Ethnic minority areas have made notable progress in fighting poverty. From  to , in the five autonomous regions Inner Mongolia, Guangxi, Tibet, Ningxia and Xinjiang and three provinces with a large multiethnic population Guizhou, Yunnan and Qinghai, the number of the poor dropped by . million. Extreme poverty was eliminated in all  of the minority ethnic groups with a small population. Some ethnic groups, still at the later stage of primitive society when the PRC was founded in , leapfrogged to socialism and then again made great strides towards moderate prosperity in all respects. Box  Renovation of Dilapidated Rural Homes Renovation of dilapidated rural homes is an important policy measure in realizing the Two Assurances and Three Guarantees. Since , a total of . million poor from . million households have had their dilapidated mudandstraw cottages renovated. Housing improvement assistance was offered to . million rural households with economic difficulties, including households entitled to subsistence allowances, severely impoverished residents cared for at their homes with government support, and impoverished families of individuals with disabilities. Housing renovation for the rural poor is a part of the program of improving rural infrastructure, along with road construction, afforestation, supply of safe drinking water, garbage disposal, and sewage treatment. Through all these efforts, the rural living environment in China has notably improved. During housing renovation programs in poor rural areas, ethnic and local features have been retained to the maximum extent cultural villages, as a means of poverty alleviation, have been developed to increase local tourism income. Subsidies were offered to the rural impoverished for the renovation of their dilapidated homes. In , the average per household subsidy from the state budget was raised from RMB, to RMB,. Domestic authorities integrated all government subsidy funds before they were classified and graded in accordance with the extent of poverty, the level of risk for each dwelling, and the approach to renovation. This measure has ensured that poor households can afford safe housing. The widowed, orphaned and childless in extreme poverty are provided with rural public rental housing or rural nursing homes, vacant public housing that has been renovated, or vacant farmhouses for longterm rental, to guarantee their access to safe housing. The Two Assurances and Three Guarantees have been realized. According to the national survey of poverty alleviation , poor households now have adequate food and clothing all year round and a proper supply of nutritious food. They have clothing for all four seasons and comforters that protect them from cold weather. .The national survey of poverty alleviation is a full review of Chinas progress in fighting poverty and has a fundamental importance for targeted poverty alleviation. From  to , the survey was conducted in  provinces and equivalent administrative units in central and western China, focusing on the veracity of poverty alleviation results, particularly the overall progress in designated poor counties. The survey includes registration of povertystricken populations, progress in the Two Assurances and Three Guarantees, participation of the impoverished in poverty alleviation programs, and basic public services in poor counties and villages. Access to good quality education for the impoverished has improved remarkably there are no dropouts in the countryside due to financial difficulties nineyear compulsory education is now available to all children from rural poor households, and the completion rate in  was .. The threetier healthcare system at village, township and county levels has been improved. All povertystricken populations now have access to basic medical insurance, critical illness insurance, and medical assistance, to ensure medical treatment to the impoverished with major illnesses, contracted healthcare to the impoverished with chronic diseases, and guaranteed medical services for the impoverished with critical illnesses. Basic medical insurance coverage of the poor is now over .. All the impoverished have been guaranteed medical services and medical insurance. Through these measures, China has resolved the problem of difficult and expensive access to medical treatment for povertystricken residents. The program of renovation of dilapidated rural homes has ensured safe housing for all the impoverished Box . The program of safe drinking water for rural residents has secured supplies to . million poor in terms of both quantity and quality, and benefited  million rural population tap water coverage increased from  in  to  in . . Povertystricken Areas Rid of Backwardness Poor areas have long suffered from weak infrastructure, inadequate public services, and social and economic underdevelopment. In the final stages of fighting poverty, China succeeded in raising all the rural poor out of extreme poverty and the impoverished areas achieved a big stride in economic and social development, taking on a brand new look. Infrastructure has been improved. Lack of access to transport, electricity, drinking water and communications hinders the development of povertystricken areas. Infrastructure construction is a basic element in the battle against poverty through an intensified effort and further investment, new infrastructure in poor areas boosted their social and economic development. The construction, management, maintenance and operation of roads in rural areas have all seen significant improvement Box . Transport networks now connect all villages with other local villages and with the outside world, and provide them with safe and easy access to bus services. By the end of , impoverished areas had gained . million km of reconstructed highways and , km of new railways all the villages, townships and towns in povertystricken areas with the right conditions were accessible by paved road and provided with bus and mail routes, which facilitated more economic development. Water infrastructure in impoverished areas has been improved in many ways. Since , the effective irrigated area has increased by more than . million ha and water supply capacity has increased by . billion cu m. Better water infrastructure is also a provider of strong support for the development of povertystricken areas. Electricity access in poor areas has been improved through power grid cons