Winter Games light at end of pandemic tunnel
2021-10-30 09:28
LI MINCHINA DAILY    The Beijing  Winter Olympic Games is just over three months away, and China is preparing for it in the most challenging of times. In , when the International Olympic Committee awarded the  Winter Games to Beijing, the world looked very different. Today, expectations have been framed by the Tokyo  Summer Olympic Games, which was postponed by more than one year to JulyAugust  because of the COVID pandemic. Although the Olympic Games had been canceled earlierduring the two world warsit was the first time for the Games to be deferred. And even then, the Games was held largely behind closed doors, due to the pandemic emergency in Tokyo. But unlike the Tokyo Summer Games, the Beijing Winter Olympics will be held in China which has largely contained the pandemic, resumed economic activities and realized positive economic growth. Outside China, ineffective containment and vaccine inequality have prolonged human suffering and economic malaise associated with the pandemic. The risks are reflected in the recent resurgence of COVID in some countries and the highly transmissible Delta variant, which has hit  provinciallevel regions in China. Nonetheless, in these conditions, Chinas determination to hold the Winter Olympics represents light in the long and dark pandemic tunnel. Mirroring the Tokyo Summer Olympics protocol, the IOC deemed that only Chinese residents will be permitted to attend the  Winter Games as spectators. So broadcasters, particularly China Central Television domestically, Eurosport in Europe and NBCUniversal in the United States, will play a critical role in sustaining the Olympic dream around the world. As costs have soared and environmental effects increased, the pride of hosting the Olympic Games has lost some of its luster in recent years. The Beijing  Olympic Games required shutdowns against pollution. As the Olympics torch relay will visit the three clusters of Beijing, Yanqing and Zhangjiakou, the Winter Games seeks to portray a greener China, with an estimated budget of . billion. Reusing many of the venues built for the  Summer Games, the Beijing Winter Olympics aspires to integrate the Games with sustainable development plans for the wider region, focusing on clean energy, green technology, ecological improvement and air quality. In February, Beijing announced that the  venues for the Winter Olympics would be running on entirely renewable energy, thanks to partners such as Beijing Jingneng Power Co, China Huadian Corporation, and the State Grid Beijing Electric Power. Geared toward the integration of smart grid planning into the Olympics, these efforts will likely facilitate the development of new smart grid technologies and renewable energy production in the three Winter Games clusters. At the  Winter Olympics in Pyeongchang, the Republic of Korea, Chinese athletes competed in only half of the  events. So, qualifying for all of the  events of the  Winter Games became the first goal of Chinese athletes, and by , China had some , athletes training in the national team times more than the last time. Before the  Winter Olympics, China also signed agreements with several leading winter sports countries in Europe to host and train Chinese athletes, while recruiting foreign coaches for disciplines in which Chinas performance had been weaker. Since the mids, several major initiatives have been launched to promote these objectives, particularly the Ice and Snow Sports Development Program  and associated infrastructure investment. It was supported by several programs to boost Chinas nascent winter sports industry, including the national fitness plan , and the programs for ice and snow facilities , and ice and snow tourism . The targets for  remain ambitious to increase Chinese participants to  million in winter sports, while raising the value of the industry to some  billion. As in the  Summer Olympics, the opening ceremony of the  Winter Games will be held at the National Stadium, popularly known as the Birds Nest, in Beijing. At a time when the pandemic is still raging in some parts of the world and unwarranted attempts are being made to divide the world, Chinas Olympic motto, Together for a Shared Future, should be taken seriously. As a young man, my father was a weightlifter training for the  Olympics until the world lost its way and he was forced to spend five years of his life on the war front. I was luckier. As a sprinter, one of the teenage highlights of my athletic career was swimming next to Mark Spitz who later won a record seven gold medals at the  Munich Olympics. Many of my friends chose winter sports. While only a few made it to the Olympics, none of us has forgotten those experiences that made us stronger, healthier, and hopefully better as human beings. Taken in the right way, sports prepares youths for life, through competition and cooperation. Boycotts divide, friendships unite. From Feb  to , the worlds eyes will be on Beijing, Yanqing and Zhangjiakou. The Olympic dream of competing to transcend ones own potential, yet with a spirit of friendship and solidarity, must be kept alive. The author is the founder of Difference Group, and has served at the India, China and America Institute USA, Shanghai Institutes for International Studies China and the EU Centre Singapore. The views dont necessarily reflect those of China Daily.