WHO chief calls for continued health investment
2021-04-07 03:31
The emblem of WHO. PhotoAgencies    The World Health Organization, or WHO, has urged countries not to cut public spending on healthcare and other social sectors, as the world moves into a postCOVID phase, with the poorest and most marginalized being hit hardest. Speaking at Tuesdays media briefing, Director General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said The pandemic has exposed the fragility of our health systems. As essential services were paused, many diseases came roaring back. At least half of the worlds population still lacks access to essential health services, and outofpocket expenses on health drive almost  million people into poverty each year, he said, adding that cuts in public health are likely to increase hardship among already disadvantaged groups. They will weaken health system performance, increase health risks, add to fiscal pressure in the future and undermine development gains, Tedros said. Instead, he called on governments to meet the WHOs recommended target of spending an additional  percent of GDP on primary healthcare, which, he believes, is central to improving both equity and efficiency. They must reduce the global shortfall of  million health workers needed to achieve universal health coverage by , he added. At the start of the year, Tedros made a call for every country to start vaccinating health workers and older people in the first  days of . This week will see that date passed. A total of  countries and economies have now started vaccination and the global vaccine sharing initiative COVAX itself has already delivered  million doses to  countries and economies, according to the WHO. Although scaling up production and equitable distribution remains the major barrier to ending the acute stage of this pandemic, Tedros said it is a travesty that in some countries, health workers and those atrisk groups remain completely unvaccinated. He urged the world to invest in equitable production and access to COVID rapid tests, oxygen, treatments and vaccines between and within countries. WHO will continue to call on governments to share vaccine doses and fill the . billion gap  for the equitable distribution of vaccines, rapid tests and therapeutics, he said. We will also look to find new ways to work with manufacturers to boost overall vaccine production. This month, individuals around the world will also be able to get involved in accelerating vaccine equity, via a new fundraising campaign. Developed by the WHO Foundation and a range of partners, the campaign will enable individuals and companies to get one, give one, and close the overall COVID vaccine gap, with further updates to be shared around the launch, Tedros said.