Chinas Ruili ramps up efforts to curb epidemic resurgence
2021-04-06 16:55
A resident receives nucleic acid testing for COVID at Munao community, Ruili city, Southwest Chinas Yunnan province, April , . Ruili city in Southwest Chinas Yunnan province on Tuesday launched the second round of nucleic acid testing that includes all residents of the city proper. PhotoXinhua    KUNMING  Ruili city of Southwest Chinas Yunnan province is sparing no effort to control the spread of the novel coronavirus after new cluster infections were reported late March. At a designated hospital specializing in traditional Chinese medicine treatment in the border city of Ruili, where new cases have emerged, medics and experts are making an allout effort to treat the patients. The workload was quite heavy initially but it is getting much less stressful after the arrival of medics from other regions, said Wang Huaiti, director of the rehabilitation department of the hospital. The patients are basically in stable condition, said Li Wei, deputy head of an expert panel leading COVID treatment in Yunnan. The National Health Commission has also allocated the plasma of recovered COVID patients to help with the treatment. The doctor comes every day to check our blood pressure and draw blood. I am feeling much better, said Nangapain, a yearold patient from Myanmar, who is receiving treatment in Ruili. Yunnan reported  new locally transmitted COVID cases and two new asymptomatic cases on Monday, all in Ruili. As of Monday, the province had  confirmed cases and  asymptomatic cases receiving treatment or under medical observation in designated hospitals. Ruili is also conducting largescale nucleic acid testing along with home isolation, vaccination and epidemiological survey to best curb the epidemic. From March  to April , Ruili completed COVID tests for more than , people in the city proper. Nucleic acid test is a precise measure to curb the epidemic, said Yang Mou, Ruilis vicemayor. As of  pm Monday, a total of , doses of COVID vaccines had been administered in the city. I feel safer after receiving the jab, said Hu Jianyong, a local resident. Meanwhile, Ruili launched the second round of nucleic acid testing that includes all residents of the city proper starting Tuesday. On Monday, the city added three highrisk and three mediumrisk areas for the COVID outbreak.