Cambodia counts down to tourism reopening
2021-10-29 10:08
In this file photo taken on February ,  a tourist sits on a beach in Sihanoukville. Cambodia is set to welcome vaccinated international tourists towards the end of  as the country seeks to recover from the impact of the COVID coronavirus pandemic.PhotoAgencies    Optimism is growing in Cambodia as the country prepares to partially reopen its vital tourism industry to international visitors from the end of next month. The time to rebuild has come, said Arnaud Darc, president of the Cambodia Restaurant Association, in expressing a sentiment that is taking hold well beyond the travel and hospitality sectors. Darcs spirits have lifted since the Cambodian government released a longterm master plan for tourism on Oct . The document aims to play a role in promoting the countrys recovery from the pandemic. The master plan comes at a key moment that sees the tourism industry awaken after a prolonged pandemic which caused a slump in travel globally and devastated the hospitalityrelated businesses, said Darc, who is also the chairman and chief executive of the Thalias Hospitality Group. The phased reopening of the tourism sectorto vaccinated foreign travelersis focused initially on the visitor hot spot of Siem Reap Province in the countrys north. The Siem Reap Tourism Development Master Plan  has been winning support from business operators. The province is renowned for its Angkor temple complex. The master plan will play an important role to promote the quality, safety and sustainable development of the tourism industry in the province, Cambodian Deputy Prime Minister Aun Pornmoniroth was quoted by Xinhua News Agency as saying at the online launch event. Under the master plan, the province was expected to attract . million international tourists and . million domestic visitors by , generating about . billion in revenue. The squarekilometer Angkor Archaeological Parkthe kingdoms most popular tourism destinationwas added to the United Nations World Heritage List in . Vital to recovery About . million out of some . million international tourists to Cambodia visited the centuriesold temple complex in , yielding gross revenue of  million in ticket sales. But in the first nine months of , only , foreign visitors arrived, according to Xinhua. On Thursday, Cambodia held a launch ceremony for its vaccine tourism plan, with designated cities and areas in Preah Sihanouk and Koh Kong provinces to open for vaccinated tourists from Nov  in the initial phase, according to local media Khmer Times. Heng Kimkong, a visiting senior research fellow at the Cambodia Development Center, a think tank in Phnom Penh, said the tourism plan is vital to the recovery of Cambodia. It is essential to have the tourism master plan, which provides clear directions on how to restore the tourism sector, Heng Kimkong said.