Transportation sector sees Qingming Festival rebound
2021-04-06 07:16
A new type of Fuxing highspeed bullet train with WiFi connection starts operation in Nanjing, Jiangsu province. PhotoXinhua    Chinas transportation sector witnessed a rebound during the threeday Tomb Sweeping Day holiday due to effective epidemic prevention and control measures across the country and the growing number of people receiving vaccinations. Tomb Sweeping Day, also known as Qingming Festival, fell on Sunday this year. Traditionally, it is the time when Chinese people commemorate the dead. It was also the first national holiday since Spring Festival, when people had been encouraged to stay put due to COVID epidemic control measures. A total of . million passenger trips were expected to be made from Saturday to Monday, an increase of . percent over the same period last year, according to the Ministry of Transport. The civil aviation sector is expected to have handled . million passengers, a significant increase of . percent yearonyear, and a drop of . percent over the same period in . On Saturday, the first day of the threeday holiday, more than  million passenger trips were made, an increase of  percent over the same period in , and a decrease of . compared with , according to the ministry. Among those trips, . million were made by rail, a new daily peak for rail travel this year, while . million trips were made by road, . million by air and . million by water. To cater to the growing travel demand, transportation regulators have arranged more and targeted services. In Beijing, more subway services were arranged to areas with cemeteries. In southern China, more ferries were scheduled from Xuwen county, Guangdong province, to Haikou, Hainan province, to cross the Qiongzhou Strait, up from  to  trips a day, according to the ministry. According to China State Railway Group, the national railway operator, more train trips were scheduled during the holiday. A total of , trains were scheduled every day from Friday to Monday, an increase of . percent compared with the same period in . Since March , people have been able to travel to lowrisk areas by showing their green health code, with no nucleic acid test results required. Demand for travel services has grown due to a combination of the easing of strict epidemic control measures and a strong desire among the public to enjoy the spring. On social media, people shared photos of transportation hubs, such as railway stations and airports, comparing their emptiness during Spring Festival with the crowds during the Tomb Sweeping Day holiday.