Vaccines said key to reopen intl borders
2021-04-06 07:10
Merchants and staff members in Wangfujing, one of Beijings downtown shopping streets, receive COVID vaccination at a temporary vaccination site newlyset nearby for their convenience in Beijing, capital of China, March , . PhotoXinhua    Quick rollout needs to continue to reach  inoculation rate for herd immunity Mass vaccination is the only way for China to build herd immunity against the novel coronavirus and fully reopen to the world, a renowned health expert said. The National Health Commission said that China had administered nearly  million doses as of Sunday, up by about . million from Saturday. The number of fully vaccinated people in China is still far from the estimated threshold for herd immunity of at least  percent. By comparison, some major economies have outpaced the rest of the world in vaccinating their population, said Zhang Wenhong, head of the infectious disease center at Fudan Universitys Huashan Hospital in Shanghai. He said Israel is very close to establishing herd immunity, and the United Kingdom is moving fast and has inoculated nearly all people above  years old. For the United States, with a total population of over  million and a daily rollout of  million shots, the goal of herd immunity is also on the horizon, he added. If China fails to successfully immunize its population and other countries begin to fully reopen their borders, the country will have to confront a serious barrier in resuming communication with the rest of the world, Zhang said during an interview with China Central Television that aired on Saturday. China is now capable of suppressing local outbreaks and infection clusters with a series of nonpharmaceutical measures, such as swift testing and quarantine, and targeted lockdown policies. Zhang said such a strategy is effective in clearing all domestic cases, but it cannot last for the long run. The speedy development and approval of vaccines has offered another safe and effective avenue for defeating the virus, he added. Some regions that experienced local outbreaks after COVID vaccines were first made available in July are now leading the race in terms of vaccination rates. Beijings Daxing district, which reported more than  local infections earlier this year, has become the countrys first to immunize  percent of its population. Local authorities in Shijiazhuang, Hebei province, a city that recorded over  cases from January to February, said it aims to vaccinate  percent of residents by the end of June. The local government of Ruili, a city in Yunnan province bordering Myanmar, also said it will inoculate all people eligible for vaccines by Tuesday. The city has reported dozens of locallytransmitted COVID cases since March . Beijing also announced on Friday that more than  million people in the city had received COVID vaccinations by Friday afternoon, and it plans to vaccinate all local residents aged  and older by the end of May, according to the Beijing Daily newspaper. Zhang said rolling out such fast vaccination campaign is a significant addition to Chinas existing viruscontrol tools. Quality certificate China has granted conditional approval for four domestically made vaccines and approved one vaccine for emergency use. One of the approved vaccines that is produced by the Stateowned Sinopharms Beijing Institute of Biological Products obtained a Good Manufacturing Practice certificate from Hungarian authorities on Thursday, Sinopharm said on Saturday. The certificate attests to consistent quality of products manufactured by the company. Sinopharm said the new certificate is the first of its kind to be issued to a vaccine developed by China and marks a step forward for homegrown COVID vaccines to become a global public good. The National Health Commission also released the first version of a guideline for the use of COVID vaccines on March  to help overcome vaccine hesitancy and address common concerns among the public. The document says all people aged  or older are cleared for vaccination. It also specifies five categories of contraindications to COVID vaccines allergic reaction to any vaccine component severe reaction to other vaccines uncontrolled epilepsy or other neurological disorder fever, acute disease or acute chronic disease pregnancy.