Nepal to resume COVID vaccination drive after arrival of Chinese vaccines
2021-04-05 13:43
Doses of the Sinopharm coronavirus disease COVID vaccine are pictured on February , . PhotoAgencies    KATHMANDU  The Nepali government has decided to administer the COVID vaccine donated by China on Wednesday amid resurging cases of novel coronavirus in the Himalayan country, an official of the Ministry of Health and Population said. On March , a batch of Chinese COVID vaccines developed by Sinopharm was delivered to Nepal. The Chinese vaccine will be inoculated among people starting from Wednesday, Jageshwor Gautam, spokesperson at the health ministry, told a press conference. Those involved in essential services, students studying in China under the Chinese government scholarship but are currently stuck in Nepal due to pandemic, Nepali students preparing to leave for China for the higher study and people involved in crossborder trade between Nepal and China will be inoculated with the Chinese vaccine. According to the ministry, essential workers include the people who are working in postal and telephone services, water supply and distribution, hotels and restaurant, public transportation services, electricity supply, storage and transportation of consumer goods, sales and distribution of medicines and the health workers who had missed out in the first phase of the vaccination drive that began on Jan . Gautam said the Chinese vaccines would be administered from designated hospitals in Kathmandu Valley. The Nepali government is vaccinating with Chinese vaccines at a time when the number of COVID cases has started to rise in Nepal. Nepal reported  COVID cases on Monday. In early March, the cases went down below  per day. The Chinese vaccines arrived when the Himalayan country was struggling to get enough vaccines from other sources to continue its vaccination drive. Nepal has so far inoculated over . million people in two phases, according to the Ministry of Health and Population. On Feb , the Nepali Department of Drug Administration approved the vaccine developed by Chinas Beijing Institute of Biological Products Co Ltd under Sinopharm, for the emergency use in Nepal.