German bob and skeleton athletes praise Chinas new Olympic track
2021-10-29 09:38
Germanys Laura Nolte and Deborah Levi in action during the twowoman bobsleigh test event ahead of the Beijing  Olympic Winter Games in Beijings Yanqing district, October , . PhotoAgencies    BERLIN  German bobsleigh and skeleton athletes praised the new Yanqing track for Beijing  after preOlympic test runs there. Yanqing, a northern suburb of Beijing and one of the three competition zones of Beijing , played host to bobsleigh and skeleton test runs between October  and . German bobsleigh head coach Rene Spies called the venue architecturally outstanding as it is smoothly embedded in the landscape. Chinas organizers have created a challenging competition site that doesnt allow any mistakes, the German coach said, adding that his team would need to perform at a high level to live up to their tag as pretournament favorites. Returning to Germany, Spies called the trip to China ahead of several European Cup events a success, as everything was perfectly organized. Like Spies, athletes discussed the strict COVID countermeasures in place for the Games, but emphasized that they fully accept the rules. All German athletes, coaches, and staff are fully vaccinated, the association revealed. We felt comfortable despite the rules. We were somehow isolated but could entirely focus on our sports, Mariama Jamanka said. The  Olympic gold medal winner added, We need to see the entire picture. The Olympics are the peak for athletes. To be able to compete is the primary target. Compatriot Laura Nolte said that everyone is used to the restrictions. I dont see a big problem. The fact is, in sports, we too have to live with it. Nolte called the track tricky but safe. There are many parts you enjoy driving.  Olympic champion Francesco Friedrich called the regulations tight, but after all, we are preparing for the Olympic Games, not a regional event. For Friedrich, the COVID pandemic remains a threat to all events. It doesnt make sense to think about the measures, but instead use your energy to deliver a satisfying competition, he commented, adding that it is vital to keep ones speed from the start to cover the flat parts of the Yanqing track. Seventime skeleton world champion Tina Hermann spoke of an impressive track, while fellow skeleton athlete Jaqueline Lolling felt inspired by the scenery. The building delivers pure motivation and inspires you to compete at the highest level, the  Olympic silver medalist added. Germany skeleton head coach Christian Baude said he is optimistic for the Olympics after the preparation camp. If you understand the characteristics of the track, you get along well. Fourtime Olympic champion and tobogganist Natalie Geisenberger said she is excited to experience a new track. I might have seen all of them in my career. Its thrilling to see a new one now, she added. Geisenberger takes off for test runs in China with the sledge team next Wednesday. Its my fourth Olympics and I still want to win medals.