Preparing for the return of tourism
2021-04-03 09:05
Children ride on swings in a tourist area in Sihong county, Jiangsu province on March , . PhotoXinhua    Pentup demand impossible to ignore as time estimates vary for travel recovery As international travel came to a standstill in , companies in the travel and tourism industries hit a wall. Business dried up to almost nothing. Now, with vaccination campaigns beginning to pick up speed, plans around travel bubbles falling in place and discussions around vaccination certificates proliferating, there is hope for a big rebound that will supercharge the moribund industry. The year  saw almost  billion international tourism departures around the world. But that number evaporated in , even for domestic travel. The World Economic Forum estimates the travel industry lost . trillion in . According to the United Nations World Tourism Organization, or UNWTO,  billion fewer international arrivals were recorded in  than in , a plummet of  percent. Even during the global crisis of , the decline was just  percent. Malaysia recorded just . million tourist arrivals in , down from . million in , while tourism revenues fell  percent. Thailand lost  million tourists and experienced the worst economic downturn since the Asian financial crisis of . Foreign arrivals in Vietnam fell  percent to just . million, according to the General Statistics Office. The plunging numbers have forced the industry to adapt. Singapores Blue Sky Escapes is a good example of how the adaptation is playing out. Blue Sky specialized in outbound journeys but had to shift its offerings as COVID hit in February . At the onslaught of the virus in February, we were busy dealing with change and cancellation requests, said Blue Sky Escapes Director Krystal Tan. Many of the trips we spent months working on were indefinitely postponed or canceled. For a short period, Blue Sky focused on wellness staycations, but then social distancing measures kicked in. Blue Sky shifted again to provide virtual experiences. It was definitely a big shift for us to pivot from a predominantly outbound travel company to pretty much an events programming company with the virtual experiences, Tan said. But we found this to be the most effective way to continue engaging with and growing our community.