Jabs carveup tweaked to aid EUs neediest states
2021-04-03 08:09
Gotabaya Rajapaksa fourth from right, Sri Lankas president, takes part in a handover ceremony for a donated batch of Sinopharms COVID vaccine at the Bandaranaike International Airport in Colombo, Sri Lanka, on Wednesday. PhotoXINHUA    BRUSSELSMost European Union states on Thursday agreed to share part of their upcoming COVID vaccine deliveries with the five EU countries that need them the most. After days of negotiations, EU ambassadors on Thursday agreed to change a distribution arrangement for  million doses of a vaccine from Pfizer and BioNTech due to be delivered in the second quarter of this year, so that the needier countries will receive more. Those countries are Bulgaria, Croatia, Estonia, Latvia and Slovakia. They will also receive their prorata share of the total  million doses. To make that happen,  EU countries agreed to receive a prorata share of a smaller total of . million doses, the statement said. The EUs vaccine doses are usually distributed between the blocs  countries based on population. We have provided Croatia with an additional , doses of PfizerBioNTech by the end of June this year, Croatian Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic said in a statement. On Friday, Bulgarian Prime Minister Boyko Borissov said the country will receive more than . million additional doses of the PfizerBioNTech vaccine in the second quarter. Three statesAustria, the Czech Republic and Slovenialeft their share of the deliveries unchanged. The countries that agreed to redistribute their vaccines are Belgium, Cyprus, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Ireland, Italy, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, the Netherlands, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Spain and Sweden. The EU expects a major rampup in deliveries over the next three months that it says will be sufficient to inoculate at least  percent of its adult population by July, and speed up its slow vaccination drive. About  million doses of the PfizerBioNTech vaccine are due this quarter, enough for  million people, while deliveries of Johnson  Johnsons singledose shot will start this month. While rich countries are racing to get more vaccines from the PfizerBioNTech partnership and Johnson  Johnson, safety concerns over a shot from AstraZeneca are growing. British regulators on Thursday said they had identified  cases of rare blood clot events after the use of the AstraZeneca vaccine,  more than the agency previously reported. The Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency said it had received no such reports of clotting following use of the PfizerBioNTech vaccine. In Australia, authorities said they are investigating whether a bloodclotting case recorded on Friday is related to the AstraZeneca vaccine. Australian media reported that a yearold man was admitted to a Melbourne hospital with possible clotting days after receiving the vaccine. Agencies Via Xinhua