Wang Yi, Indonesian FM hold talks on strengthening cooperation
2021-04-02 22:23
State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi holds talks with Indonesian Foreign Minister Retno Marsudi in Nanping, Southeast Chinas Fujian province, April , . PhotoXinhua    FUZHOU  State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi on Friday held talks with Indonesian Foreign Minister Retno Marsudi, and both sides expressed willingness to further advancing bilateral cooperation. Noting that China and Indonesia are major developing countries and representatives of emerging economies, Wang said both sides share broad common interests and similar development concepts. Strengthening bilateral strategic communication and deepening mutually beneficial cooperation is not only of great significance to the respective development of the two countries, but also has a positive impact on the region and the whole world, Wang said. He said that China stands ready to work with Indonesia, following the direction set by the two heads of state, to continue deepening the synergy of strategies, enhance practical cooperation, strengthen coordination and cooperation on regional and international affairs, and contribute more to the stability and development of Asia and the world in the postpandemic era. Wang said China and Indonesia joined hands to fight the COVID pandemic, which set an example of cooperation among developing countries. China is deepening cooperation on vaccines with Indonesia and discussing the establishment of a mutual healthcode recognition arrangement to promote the availability and affordability of vaccines in developing countries, he said. Wang also expressed hope that Indonesia will actively support the implementation of Chinas spring sprout program in Indonesia. Wang called on the two countries to enhance cooperation on the digital economy, big data, cloud computing, G, and smart city construction to inject new impetus into their highquality economic development. He called for advancing cooperation in the fields of navigation safety, marine environmental protection, maritime search and rescue as well as fishery. Wang said that China is willing to discuss with Indonesia the establishment of a bilateral comprehensive economic partnership. Wang said China stands ready to work with ASEAN countries including Indonesia to promote the early entry into force and implementation of the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership. Retno said Indonesia and China have always maintained close cooperation in various fields. He added that Indonesia looks forward to furthering cooperation on vaccines with China, jointly promoting major project construction in the postpandemic era, and expanding cooperation on trade, investment, fisheries, and infrastructure construction. Retno said Indonesia supports deepening cooperation between the ASEAN and China.