Factory activity jumps, as do jobless claims
2021-04-02 14:35
A hiring sign is displayed on the exterior of a Target store on Feb ,  in Novato, California. PhotoAgencies    The US economy got some conflicting readings on Thursday, but the bulk of it was positive. The SP  closed above  for the first time, and US manufacturing activity increased in March at the fastest pace in  years, a sign of strengthening demand as the COVID pandemic wanes and government stimulus money sloshes through the economy. But the number of Americans filing new claims for unemployment benefits unexpectedly rose last week. Initial claims for state unemployment benefits jumped , to a seasonally adjusted , for the week ended March , the Labor Department said. The Institute for Supply Management ISM, a trade group of purchasing managers, said that its measure of factory activity rose to . last month  the highest level since   from . the previous month. A reading above  indicates an expansion in manufacturing, which accounts for . percent of the US economy. Economists had forecast the index rising to . in March. Its started to really transition to an extremely strong, demanddriven economy, said Timothy Fiore, head of the panel that oversees the ISM factory survey. He said the industry is in a Vshaped recovery. Companies and their suppliers have not been able to react quick enough to staff up. Many companies, however, reported difficulties in keeping up with demand, as snarled supply chains have delayed parts shipments, and many firms have struggled to hire enough workers. The rising demand may increase fears that inflation will rise in the coming months, as a postpandemic jump in spending could continue to outstrip supply. International shipping has been snarled by delays at ports, which often have fewer workers on the job in order to prevent viral spread. The Suez Canal blockage, which is still being unwound, has further disrupted international shipping. Pentup demand has been so high, The Wall Street Journal reported, that shippers are running low on containers in which to ship goods by sea. Still, the World Trade Organization expects the crossborder flow of goods to increase by  percent this year, erasing a . percent drop in  as the pandemic hit factory output and shipping. In the eurozone, factory activity grew at the fastest pace in at least two decades, according to IHS Markit, with the continents purchasing managers index rising to  in March from  a month before. Another factor for the economy is the potential for higher corporate taxes as a result of President Joe Bidens . trillion infrastructure plan that was announced on Wednesday. The larger impact to markets will be whether or not the corporate tax rate is raised to  percent  or somewhere in between there and the current  percent level  and whether or not a global minimum tax on corporations can be established, said Chris Zaccarelli, chief investment officer for the Independent Advisor Alliance, marketwatch.com reported. Its likely that the stock market can withstand a hike in the corporate tax rate to  percent, but unclear how much room there is above that if stocks are going to keep moving higher between now and yearend, he said. Americans have shifted their spending during the pandemic, as most consumers have been reluctant or unable to eat out, shop, or visit movie theaters as often as in the past. Instead, they have spent more on factory goods, such as new cars, furniture for expanded home offices, and workout bicycles. In the stock market, the SP  surged on Thursday to its firstever close above the  mark, bolstered by gains in Microsoft, Amazon and Google parent Alphabet. The three tech giants along with Nvidia jumped  percent or more, with those and other growth stocks showing signs of awakening after lagging in recent weeks. Alphabets . percent rally sent it to its highest close ever. What a great way to start the second quarter, said J.J. Kinahan, chief strategist with TD Ameritrade. Theres money out there looking to be put to work, and with the first quarter ending, it looks like people are finding new ways in a new quarter to find opportunities. The Dow Jones Industrial Average rose . percent to close at , points, while the SP  gained . percent to . The Nasdaq Composite climbed . percent to ,. The SP  is up about  percent in , and it has gained  percent from its low in March . Were still bullish for this year, and we think that with stimulus, with the Fed committed to being dovish, with the economy reopening due to more of the US getting vaccinated, overall youre going to see corporate earnings do pretty well, said King Lip, chief investment strategist at Baker Avenue Asset Management in San Francisco. The CBOE volatility index slipped below  points for the first time in  months, a level last seen before the coronavirusdriven global financial market meltdown in March . US stock markets will be closed on Good Friday. The governments closely watched employment report on Friday is expected to show a surge in job growth in March. According to a Reuters survey of economists, nonfarm payrolls likely increased by , jobs last month after rising by , in February. That would leave employment about . million below its peak in February , highlighting that a full labor market recovery is years away. At least . million people were collecting unemployment checks in midMarch, a sign that longterm joblessness was becoming entrenched. But even at that rapid hiring clip, it would take the economy until January  to get back to prepandemic trends, said Andrew Stettner, senior fellow at The Century Foundation. This cold, hard math underscores the hurdles facing the millions of workers still on state or federal jobless aid as they seek to return to productive work. Agencies contributed to this story.