JJ sending experts to oversee plant that ruined vaccine doses
2021-04-02 13:51
A nurse draws from a vial of Johnson  Johnson COVID vaccine, in Los Angeles, California, US, March , . PhotoAgencies    Johnson  Johnson said it is sending additional experts to oversee production of its COVID vaccine at a plant in Maryland where human error ruined millions of its onedose vaccines. The plant is owned by a company that reportedly has been cited by US health officials for qualitycontrol problems. Emergent, a contract manufacturer based in Gaithersburg, Maryland, has been making the main ingredient for the pharmaceutical companys vaccine at one of its plants in Baltimore known as Bayview. Workers at the plant mixed up the ingredients in the vaccine, The New York Times reported Wednesday. JJ didnt disclose the nature of the lapse in quality or how many doses were affected, but the Times said  million doses were ruined. JJ said the doses werent distributed. Emergent is one of about  companies JJ is using to speed up manufacturing of its recently approved vaccine, the New Brunswick, New Jerseybased company said. Emergent has been cited repeatedly by the Food and Drug Administration FDA for problems, according to records obtained by The Associated Press through the Freedom of Information Act. The records cover inspections at Emergent facilities since . The Washington Post reported that workers at the Baltimore plant in late February mixed up the ingredients for the AstraZeneca and JJ vaccines both being produced there, throwing the entire batch into question. The FDA had previously flagged qualitycontrol concerns at the plant related to its testing of a potential treatment for anthrax, according to the AP. The Bayview factory where the tainted vaccine ingredient was found hadnt yet been approved by the FDA, so no vaccine in circulation is affected. Emergent declined to comment. Future shipments of the JJ vaccine have been halted while the FDA investigates, the Times reported. The FDA said it was aware of the situation but declined further comment. Doses of the JJ vaccine that already have been distributed arent affected because they were made in the Netherlands, according to the Times. JJ said it would be able to make enough doses to meet production targets for the US in the coming months. The JJ vaccine is one of three being used in the United States. Pfizer and Moderna vaccines were already the bulk of the US supply, and the manufacture of those is proceeding as planned. The problems with JJs manufacturing process came less than a week after President Joe Biden doubled his target for the number of shots to be administered during his first  days in office, to  million. As of Wednesday, more than  million shots had been administered in the US  including . million JJ jabs, according to the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, with . percent of the population over the age of  being fully vaccinated. On Thursday, the Biden administration announced formation of a group collectively called the COVID Community Corps that will be part of an advertising campaign aimed at encouraging Americans to be inoculated against the coronavirus in communities where vaccine hesitancy remains high. A recent survey by the Kaiser Family Foundation found that the number of Americans, particularly black adults, who want to get vaccinated is continuing to increase, but it also found that vaccine skepticism remains persistent, particularly among Republicans and white evangelical Christians. The campaign, to air this month on network and cable television and online, comes as US health officials warn against a possible fourth surge of the virus. The administration is working with  organizations in the campaign to get more Americans vaccinated, including NASCAR, the Catholic Health Association of the United States and the North American Meat Institute. Administration officials said the participating organizations are able to reach millions of Americans who trust them.