UAEChina ties a model of global cooperation
2021-04-02 09:06
Visiting Chinese State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi L meets with Sheikh Abdullah bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the UAE Minister of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation, in Abu Dhabi, the United Arab Emirates, on March , .Photo provided to chinadaily.com.cn    Last weeks highprofile conversations between the UAE and China have brought fresh hopes and possibilities to the postCOVID era. The Chinese State Councillor and Foreign Minister Wang Yis meeting with His Highness Sheikh Mohamed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, crown prince of Abu Dhabi and deputy supreme commander of the UAE Armed Forces, and His Highness Sheikh Abdullah bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the UAE minister of foreign affairs and international cooperation, has monumental importance for inaugurating a new chapter in our historic and distinguished relations. The UAE and China relationship has become a model of global cooperation in the st century. Chinas burgeoning relationship with the Middle Eastern region has been underpinned by interests within the energy sector, however, China and the UAEs comprehensive strategic partnership has evolved to encompass an everbroadening range of collaborations, including joint projects and initiatives in renewable energy, logistics, infrastructure, life sciences, as well as nextgeneration information technologies such as artificial intelligence. The UAE is Chinas largest nonoil trading partner in the Middle Eastern and North African region. UAEChina trade volume has reached over  billion and the target is to expand further to  billion by . To ramp up the transition to the Fourth Industrial Revolution, the UAE has embarked on a year national development plan and year industry strategy Operation bn, with aspirations that the UAE would establish a worldclass industrial ecosystem. This would enable a transformation of our economy that attracts talents, developers and experts from all over the world. Our ambition is to have a leading regional and global hub for future industries. With the th FiveYear Plan, China is similarly striving to restructure itself into a digital and innovative economy. This common purpose will bring a wealth of opportunities for UAEChina exchanges in investment and technology. Recent largescale economic joint projects include the UAEChina Industrial Capacity Cooperation Demonstration Zone and the Hassyan clean coal power plant. The UAE will also advance side by side with China in scientific and technological RD, by setting up joint research institutions and labs. One of the most notable examples of cooperation is Mohamed bin Zayed University of Artificial Intelligence MBZUAI, which spearheads artificial intelligence, internet of things, machine learning applications and research. With COVID recovery an active topic of conversation in the global media, the foreign ministers of both UAE and China highlighted the importance of joint vaccination initiatives between the two countries. Until March , the UAE has provided up to . million doses of vaccines, which makes the UAE the secondmost vaccinated country in the world. This speed attests to the success of our joint initiatives with China and the importance of solidarity during hard times. On March , the UAE made a historic announcement to begin producing the Chinese Sinopharm vaccine with leading pharmaceutical company Julphar. The vaccine, branded HayatVax, will be the first indigenous COVID vaccine in the Middle East. It is anticipated that the UAEs vaccine production capacity will eventually reach  million doses per year. This is in keeping with the ambition for the UAE to be the main regional distribution hub for vaccines. UAE and China are both active members of the World Health Organizations COVAX initiative, which promotes distribution of vaccines across the developing world. Abu Dhabi is also hosting the virtual World Immunization and Logistics Summit with global leaders in healthcare and philanthropy. Working with partners, the UAE pledges to develop a capacity to safely deliver  billion vaccines worldwide. With safety protocols in place, the UAE is supporting upcoming plans by nations throughout the Asian region to restart tourism and travel sectors. As the two most prominent international events to reboot the postCOVID era, the UAE and China mutually supports each others efforts to successfully host the Dubai World Expo and Beijing Winter Olympics, respectively. I visited the preparation site for Beijing , and I was very encouraged by the staff and organizers professionalism and enthusiasm. I can assure you that the UAE will give a warm welcome to all Chinese tourists and business people attending the Dubai Expo . It opens on Oct , coinciding with Chinas National Day. As the world recovers from the pandemic and communications can resume, the peoples of the UAE and China have also been drawn closer together. Last year witnessed the opening of Chinese School Dubai, which is supported by the UAE Knowledge and Human Development Authority KHDA. There are currently  schools offering Chinese language courses nationwide, attracting more than , students. These numbers are growing quickly. As understanding between the peoples deepen, we will cement our friendship and unlock new avenues and possibilities for working together.  is a big year for both the UAE and China. In December, the UAE is celebrating our Golden Jubilee since its foundation, while the Communist Party of China marks its th anniversary in July. This year we also commemorate our th year of diplomatic relations. At these important junctures, both the UAE and China are looking forward to accelerating growth of strategic industries whilst reinforcing economic resilience. With shared objectives, the UAEChina comprehensive partnership is bound to be increasingly fruitful. This will also serve to achieve peace and prosperity for all peoples of the Middle East and China. The author is ambassador of the United Arab Emirates to China. The opinions expressed here are those of the writer and do not necessarily represent the views of China Daily and China Daily website.