WHO warns slow vaccine rollout prolonging COVID pandemic
2021-04-02 09:02
A volunteer paints red hearts representing the victims who died of COVID on the National COVID Memorial Wall outside St Thomas Hospital in London, Britain, on March , . PhotoXinhua    COPENHAGEN  As the European region currently fights a resurgence of COVID transmissions, the World Health Organization WHO Regional Office for Europe on Thursday called upon the governments in the region to scaleup of both vaccine production and vaccination. According to WHO Europe, to date, only  percent of the regions total population has received one vaccine dose, and four percent has completed a full vaccine series. Let me be clear we must speed up the process by ramping up manufacturing, reducing barriers to administering vaccines, and using every single vial we have in stock, now, said Hans Henri P. Kluge, WHO Regional Director for Europe said in a press release. There were . million new COVID cases and , deaths last week, which made Europe the second most affected region in the world, said the WHO regional office, highlighting the urgency of a speedier vaccine rollout. Vaccines present our best way out of this pandemic...However, the rollout of these vaccines is unacceptably slow, said Kluge. Of particular concern to WHO Europe is the ongoing disparity in the vaccine rollout across the European region which has seen every highincome country in the region vaccinating, while only  percent of uppermiddleincome countries and  percent of lower and lowermiddleincome countries vaccinating. While acknowledging the intent of governments to protect their own populations, before the vaccines are extended to other age groups I strongly urge governments to share excess doses of WHOapproved vaccines with COVAX or with countries in need, once healthcare workers and the most vulnerable have been vaccinated, said Kluge. COVAX is a World Health Organizationled initiative aimed at ensuring equal access to COVID vaccines by various countries. According to WHO Europe statistics, the total number of deaths in the European region is now fast approaching one million and the total number of cases of transmission of the coronavirus will soon exceed  million. Only five weeks ago, the weekly number of new cases in Europe had dipped to under one million, but now the regions situation is more worrying than we have seen in several months, said Dorit Nitzan, Regional Emergency Director for the WHO Regional Office for Europe in the press release. According to WHO Europe, it was more preferable for a vaccine to work alongside timely and targeted public health interventions. And as long as the coverage remains low, we need to apply the same public health and social measures as we have in the past, to compensate for delayed schedules, said Kluge. In reference to the increased mobility around the Easter holidays over the next few days, as variants of concern continue to spread across the region, Kluge reminded citizens and their governments in the region of their responsibility in the face of the pandemic.