Testimony to excellent relations
2021-04-02 07:53
MA XUEJINGCHINA DAILY    ChinaGuyana ties are becoming ever stronger as time goes by A batch of COVID vaccines donated by the Chinese government arrived at Guyanas Cheddi Jagan International Airport on March , demonstrating the strength of the timehonored friendship between China and Guyana. The vaccine is the biggest hope for all countries to save lives and restore their economies. However, the vaccine nationalism being practiced by some of the developed countries has pushed Caribbean nations, including Guyana, into a disadvantaged position. A communique issued at the nd Intersessional Meeting of the Conference of Heads of Governments of the Caribbean Community admitted that due to the relatively small procurement volume, it was difficult for Caribbean countries to obtain vaccines. The COVAX program that is trying to ensure everyone in the world has access to COVID vaccines can only meet  percent of the needs of these countries, which still lags far behind the goal of immunizing the entire population in the region. Since August last year, the new Guyanese government led by President Irfaan Ali has taken measures to protect the life and health of the Guyanese people with a responsible attitude, achieving remarkable results in curbing the deadly virus. However, the virus continues to spread in the country, which has greatly impacted the economy and peoples livelihoods, and the youth unemployment rate exceeds  percent. Despite the gap between Chinas limited production of COVID vaccines and the huge demand, China responded immediately to Guyanas request for aid and provided Guyana with a batch of vaccines in the shortest time and the fastest speed, helping to safeguard Guyanas frontline medical workers, the elderly and other vulnerable people. China has played an exemplary role in assisting Guyana and other countries in the Caribbean region. President Ali sent a letter to President Xi Jinping to express his heartfelt thanks, stressing that Chinas move is a further testimony to the excellent relations which our two countries enjoy and the unwavering support of China for our COVID relief efforts. Since the outbreak of COVID in Guyana in March , China has provided  batches of antipandemic materials to the country, including nucleic acid extraction apparatus, more than , testing reagents and over , masks, as well as ventilators and oxygen generators. China has also shared its antivirus experience with Guyana through bilateral and multilateral videoconferences. Chinese enterprises in Guyana have also adopted measures to take good care of local employees and have donated materials to help local communities fight against the pandemic. The recent vaccine cooperation has set a new example for the practical cooperation between China and Guyana. The two countries have treated each other as equalsrespecting, understanding and supporting each otherand they have deepened their mutual political trust, further enhanced their economic and trade ties, and promoted personnel exchanges and fruitful pragmatic cooperation in various fields. Last year, against the background of shrinking global trade and a . percent drop in Guyanas foreign trade, the bilateral trade between the two countries rose by . percent to  million, of which Guyanas exports to China exceeded  million for the first time, with a yearonyear growth of . times. Chinese enterprises have invested more than . billion in Guyana, directly creating thousands of jobs for local people. Chinese enterprises have built airports, roads, telecommunication networks, the power grid and water plants in Guyana, which have greatly improved the local infrastructure. Guyanese Minister of Public Works Juan A. Edghill said, All the transformative projects in Guyana are built by Chinese. In November last year, the power cable under the Demerara River in Guyana was damaged by tugboats. China responded to Guyanas emergency call and coordinated with Ningbobased Orient Cable Co to send a technical team to carry out emergency repairs, ensuring the power supply for the capital Georgetown during the Christmas holiday. A total of  doctors have been dispatched to Guyana in  teams to help improve local medical services since .They have not only treated patients . million times free of charge in major hospitals, rescuing more than , patients, but have also often conducted medical outreaches in the hinterland to provide free services for patients who were not convenient to travel long distances. ChinaGuyana economic and technological cooperation projects also play an indispensable role in Guyana and benefit its people. For example, the Chinesefunded Arthur Chung Conference Center has become an important venue for Guyana to hold domestic and international events. Two Chinadonated container scanners have greatly increased the efficiency of Guyanas cargo clearance. Police cars funded by China have boosted the fight against crime. And the two ferries Kanawan and Sabanto provided by China have made it easier to cross the Essequibo River. President Xi had a telephone conversation with his Guyanese counterpart on March , saying that China and Guyana should take the th anniversary of their diplomatic ties next year as an opportunity to push for more cooperation results and lift bilateral relations to a higher level. President Ali reiterated that Guyana firmly abides by the oneChina principle, regards China as the most important cooperative partner for Guyanas national development, and is committed to strengthening relations with China. This year marks the first year of Chinas th FiveYear Plan , and is also the start of Guyanas new economic era of prosperity. Pragmatic cooperation between the two countries boasts a solid foundation, great potential and new opportunities. As long as the two sides adhere to the consensus reached by the two heads of state and the Belt and Road cooperation document signed in , as well as the basic principles of consultation, coconstruction and cosharing, the ChinaGuyana friendship will continue to grow stronger, and the mutually beneficial partnership will bear more fruit and be a model for SouthSouth cooperation. The author is the charge daffaires of the Chinese embassy to Guyana. The author contributed this article to China Watch, a think tank powered by China Daily. The views do not necessarily reflect those of China Daily.