Canadas most populous province to enter fourweek shutdown
2021-04-02 05:16
FILE PHOTO Healthcare workers prepare to test passengers as they arrive at Torontos Pearson airport after mandatory coronavirus disease COVID testing took effect for international arrivals in Mississauga, Ontario, Canada February , . PhotoAgencies    OTTAWA  Canadas most populous province of Ontario announced that it will impose a fourweek provincewide shutdown starting April  due to the worsening COVID situation. The shutdown comes as Ontarios COVID Science Table released new modeling data on Thursday showing that without a new order, the province will be unable to curb the spread of COVID variants. If no further public health measures are implemented, daily COVID cases could rise to , by the end of April, according to the data. According to the Ontario governments guidelines for shutdown, inperson dining will be shuttered yet again and further gathering restrictions will go into effect across Ontario personal care services and gyms will be closed. Essential retail stores will be able to operate with a  percent capacity limit, while other retail businesses, including bigbox stores, can operate at  percent capacity. Ontario residents will not be able to gather with anyone outside of their household indoors and outside gatherings will be capped at five people, as long as physical distance can be maintained. Residents are also being asked to limit trips outside of their home unless its for essential reasons. Ontario has a population of more than  million, accounting for . percent of the countrys population. Ontario reported , new cases on Thursday, bringing the total number of labconfirmed cases in the province to ,, including , deaths. The provinces sevenday average for the number of COVID cases recorded is now ,, up from , one week ago. Since the province began reporting COVID variants, there have been , cases of mutation discovered in positive tests. Of those variants, the province confirmed , in the last hour period. There are at least , cases of the B.... variant in Ontario, as well as  B.. variant and  P.. variant, according to the Ontario government. Up to date, more than , people in Ontario have received both doses of the COVID vaccine and are now considered immunized against the virus. As of Thursday afternoon, Canada reported a cumulative total of , COVID cases and , deaths, according to CTV.