US alarm over waning vaccine power in cold months
2021-11-22 09:38
A child receives a COVID vaccine in Louisville, Kentucky, on Nov . JON CHERRYREUTERS    NEW YORKAbout  percent of the population in the United States is heading into the winter months with reduced protection against the coronavirus, the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said in data released last week. Health experts warned that those who were vaccinated early in the year are likely to have waning immunity. About  in  US citizens are now fully vaccinated, with more than half having received their last shot more than six months ago, the threshold recommended for a Moderna or Pfizer booster. However, the CDC said if combined with the  million unvaccinated people, only  percent of people in the US are at their strongest immunity level against COVID. As of Saturday morning, more than . million people had received at least one dose of a COVID vaccine, making up . percent of the whole US population. More than . million were fully vaccinated, accounting for  percent of the total. The New York Times reported that the sevenday average of confirmed cases stood at , nationwide on Friday, with the day change striking a  percent rise. There were , deaths related to COVID on Friday, according to the CDC. More shockingly, according to two new studies published by the CDC on Friday, pregnant women infected with the Delta variant are at increased risk of having a stillbirth or dying during childbirth. The research expanded on reports from doctors nationwide who have noted a rise in pregnant women becoming critically ill with COVID, particularly as the highly contagious variant has taken hold. We are seeing loads of pregnancy complications from COVID infection, said Ellie Ragsdale, director of fetal intervention at the UH Cleveland Medical Center. Complications include premature deliveries, abnormally high blood pressure in pregnant women, as well as pregnancy loss. Stillbirth risk One of the new studies analyzed more than . million deliveries nationwide between March  and September . Stillbirths were rare in the US before the pandemic, at a rate of . percent. Those rates remained similar even when the pandemic hit, at . percent among women who were never diagnosed with COVID. But the rate of stillbirths rose to . percent among expectant mothers infected with the coronavirus. And once the Delta variant took hold in July, the rates rose with . percent of COVID positive pregnancies ending in stillbirth. In an interview at the Bloomberg New Economy Forum on Wednesday, Bill Gates, cofounder of Microsoft, listed two key steps that he thought can help conquer COVID continue to vaccinate the rest of the world, and use upandcoming antiviral drugs to prevent severe disease and death. Ending the pandemic does not mean eradicating COVID completely, Gates said. Rather, Well be able to bring it down to very small numbers by the end of . That target remains realistic, given advances in vaccines and antiviral drugs. For starters, the vaccines are very good news, Gates said. Xinhua