Beijing goes full throttle in COVID vaccine production
2021-03-30 17:12
A worker performs a quality check in the packaging facility of Chinese vaccine maker Sinovac Biotech in Beijing on Sept , . PhotoAgencies    BEIJING  Beijing has gone all out to boost the production of COVID vaccines, with the combined capacity of Sinopharm and Sinovac in the Chinese capital expected to reach up to  billion doses within the year. We are accelerating the construction of new vaccine production lines and aiming to achieve an annual capacity of  billion doses in the first half of this year, said Liu Peicheng, director of brand and public relations at Sinovac Life Sciences Co Ltd. Sinovac rolled out its first COVID vaccine production line in August last year, with an annual capacity of  million doses. This February, its second production line entered operation, pushing the companys annual capacity of vaccines to over  billion. No abnormalities related to the vaccine have been detected so far, Liu said, adding that the incidence of adverse reactions to vaccines in the elderly group was similar to that in the adult group, both relatively low. Sinopharms bioscience subsidiary the China National Biotec Group CNBG has also vowed to attain an annual capacity of  billion doses within the year, and up to  billion in the near future, through continuous capacity expansion. The CNBG said it has actively participated in international cooperation on vaccines and strives to provide safe, effective, accessible and affordable vaccines for all countries through the COVAX vaccinesharing initiative. Sinopharm vaccines have been rolled out in more than  countries and regions, and have been highly recognized by the international community for their safety, effectiveness, population universality, accessibility and convenience in storage and transportation. The daily production has increased from . million doses on Feb.  to about  million, with a total of more than  million doses supplied across the country, said Xiao Yaqing, Minister of Industry and Information Technology. Xiao added that the quality and safety of COVID vaccines should always come first and be placed at the forefront of production and supply. China has so far approved four vaccines against COVID for conditional marketing and another vaccine for emergency use. As of March , Beijing had inoculated . million people, among whom . million completed the twoshot regimen, taking the total administered doses of domestically developed COVID vaccines to . million in the city. According to officials, the city is capable of administering , doses a day.