Rich nations said to impede pandemic fight
2021-03-29 11:13
Frances national cycling team trains as people get a dose of the Comirnaty PfizerBioNTech COVID vaccine at the indoor Velodrome National of SaintQuentinenYvelines in MontignyleBretonneux, southwest of Paris, France, March , . PhotoAgencies    Experts criticize wealthy nations for stockpiling more COVID vaccines than they need, warning that the pandemic wont end until  if that trend continues. Wealthy countries are impairing the international COVAX effort targeting the pandemic, said Deborah Gleeson, who researches at La Trobe University in Melbourne, Australia, how international trade agreements affect access to medicines. COVAXthe COVID Vaccines Global Access programis part of a groundbreaking global collaboration to accelerate the development, production and equitable access to the vaccines, according to the World Health Organization. These wealthy countries shouldand couldstep up to help end the COVID pandemic, she said, according to Australian Broadcasting Corp News. I think the COVAX program was a really good idea in terms of a mechanism for purchasing and distributing vaccines in an equitable way around the world, Gleeson said.But its been undermined by the way wealthy countries have negotiated deals with pharmaceutical companies and made a global grab for vaccines, and that has meant theres been really limited supply for COVAX to use to meet the needs of lowincome countries. COVAX was launched in April of last year, using the motto no one is safe unless everyone is safe. It aims to get  billion doses of vaccines out to member nations, supplying them at a discounted rate for the  poorest countries. The lowerincome countries most likely to receive the first vaccines through COVAX include Afghanistan, Haiti, Democratic Republic of Congo, Ethiopia and Somalia. In the year since,  countries including China have signed up. COVAX had raised  billion as of February, but it needs at least another  billion to meet its  target. Blocking supplies to COVAX are highincome countries, including the US, UK and Australia, which struck preemptive deals with vaccine manufacturers that... are large enough to vaccinate their population many times over, ABC News said. In a letter, a group of charities, including Save the Children and the Wellcome Trust, is urging British Prime Minister Boris Johnson to swiftly clarify how many COVID vaccine doses the United Kingdom is prepared to donate through the COVAX to poorer countries, BBC reported. The charities said the UK is one of the worlds highest per capita buyers of vaccines and is on track to have more than  million surplus doses. There is therefore the high risk that the UK will be hoarding limited supply whilst health workers and the most vulnerable in low and middleincome countries do not have access, the letter said. The British government said it will share the majority of any future surplus vaccines when these are available. The UK, which has ordered  million vaccine doses and will have many left over, has said it will donate most of its surplus vaccine supply to poorer countries, according to BBC. So far, more than  million UK adults have received a first dose of a COVID vaccine. Jeremy Farrar, director of the Wellcome Trust, said the UK will still have contractual access to at least  million surplus doses once the entire population is vaccinated, which he said wont be of use in the UK. Now is the time to think beyond our borders, he said. The world wont be safe while any single country is still fighting the virus. Farrar warned that if COVID is left to spread, the risk arises of it mutating to an extent in which vaccines and treatments no longer work.This goes beyond ethicsits a scientific and economic imperative, he said. Gleeson of La Trobe University said that by November , almost . billion vaccine doses were prepurchased. Just over half were reserved by wealthy countries, representing  percent of the global population,Gleeson said. Even taking into account twodose vaccines, Australias  million doses on ordernot counting those supplied through COVAXcould fully vaccinate the population . times, according to ABC News. And Canada ordered  million doses, enough to vaccinate every Canadian five times. ABC News said this overordering, also called vaccine nationalism, leaves fewer vaccines available for COVAX to buy. The race to secure COVID vaccines has laid bare the inherent inequalities in access to global healthcare, which adversely affect developing populations like those in Africa, the New Delhibased think tank Observer Research Foundation said. On Friday, the United Nations held a special session in which a political declaration on fair access to vaccines was launched. The declaration, endorsed by  countries, highlighted the need for international action to ensure vaccine provisions, as well as the technology associated with its production, to developing countries at reasonable prices. The declaration has also asserted the need to achieve transparency and the provision of information related to the price, safety and efficacy of different types of vaccines. It would also ensure that the vaccine reaches all people without discrimination. More than  million doses have been administered across  countriesenough to vaccinate . percent of the global population, according to Bloombergs global tracker.