Defense chief visits nations in Europe
2021-03-29 07:19
State Councilor and Minister of National Defense Wei Fenghe left pays homage on Friday to the martyrs killed in the NATO bombing of the Chinese embassy in the former Yugoslavia in . PHOTOXINHUA    Wei Fenghes trip to four countries aims to boost strong ties, experts say State Councilor and Defense Minister General Wei Fenghes tour of Europe aims to bolster pragmatic cooperation and honor Chinas lasting friendship with the countries on his itinerary, experts said. However, any country that is contemplating any attempt to undermine Chinas core interests should heed Weis declaration that China is fully capable and determined to defend itself, they said, adding China will not accept and stand idly by in the face of foreign slander and transgression. Weis weeklong trip began on Wednesday. He was invited to visit Hungary, Serbia, Greece and North Macedonia, the Ministry of National Defense said. This tour will further enhance traditional friendship and pragmatic cooperation with defense departments and militaries of the said countries, thus facilitating a healthy and stable growth of bilateral militarytomilitary relations, the ministry said. On Friday, Wei met with Serbian President Aleksandar Vucic in Belgrade. Vucic said China is Serbias most trustworthy friend, and the destinies and futures of both countries are intertwined, the ministry said. Vucic said Serbia firmly supports Chinas stance on issues concerning its core interests, including Hong Kong, Taiwan, and the Xinjiang Uygur autonomous region. It will also support the Belt and Road Initiative, he said. Wei said China appreciates Serbias support and the Chinese military is willing to expand military exchanges and cooperation with Serbia. During a visit to the bombed Chinese embassy site in Belgrade, Wei said the Chinese people will never forget the United Statesled NATO bombing of the Chinese embassy in the former Yugoslavia, nor will the Chinese military allow such history to repeat itself. We are fully capable and determined to safeguard our national sovereignty, security and development interests, Wei said as he paid homage to the three martyrs killed in the incident. On May , , a pair of US B stealth bombers dropped five guided bombs on the Chinese embassy during an airstrike, killing three Chinese journalists and infuriating the Chinese public. The US said it was an accident and apologized, but later investigations suggested the act was deliberate, though NATO and US have challenged those findings. On Wednesday, Wei met with Hungarian President Janos Ader. Both sides promised to enhance cooperation on economic, trade, tourism and military affairs, as well as on tackling the COVID pandemic. Ader said bilateral relations have developed rapidly in recent years, and the COVID vaccine China provided has brought hope for Hungary to overcome the pandemic, the ministry said in a statement. Wei said China has always regarded Hungary as a good brother and partner and is willing to continue to strengthen cooperation with the nation in various fields. Wei briefed Ader on the real situation in Xinjiang, and refuted allegations made by the US and some other Western countries. China strongly condemns the unilateral sanctions imposed on China by the European Union, the US, the United Kingdom, Canada and some other countries under the pretext of the socalled Xinjiang human rights issue, Wei said.