US has shortage of COVID rapid tests
2021-10-28 10:08
In this photo illustration, An athome COVID test by Abbott shows a positive result on Sept ,  in Chicago, Illinois. PhotoAgencies    As one of the major COVID antigen rapidtest makers in the US, Abbott lists its athome kit BinaxNow at  apiece. However, an online search showed that BinaxNow is out of stock on Amazon. A few pharmacies, such as Walgreens and Rite Aid that do sell the product, list the twopack home kit at ., plus varying shipping costs up to about . That means each test costs about , tripling the manufacturers listed price. Such is the reality the US faces right now a serious shortage of rapid COVID antigen tests while companies rush to acquire a large quantity of rapidtest kits to meet a government mandate that workers are required to be vaccinated or subject to weekly testing. As part of the Biden administrations COVID plan, the Department of Labors Occupational Safety and Health Administration OSHA is requiring all employers with  or more employees to ensure their workforce is fully vaccinated, and unvaccinated workers will be required to produce a negative test result at least weekly. The government estimated that the requirement will affect more than  million workers in private sector businesses with plus employees. To address the rapidtest shortage, which began in late summer as the Delta variant drove up coronavirus infections in the US, the National Institutes of Health announced Monday that it is allocating  million to help the Food and Drug Administration FDA to accelerate the evaluation process for largescale manufacturing of overthecounter coronavirus tests. There are about  manufactures of the rapid antigen tests in the US. Access to easytouse, affordable and reliable COVID tests is key to bringing peace of mind to our families, especially as we approach winter, US Health and Human Services Secretary Xavier Becerra said Monday. So far, the Biden administration has pledged a total of  billion for rapid testing. Bidens goal is to boost US capacity to provide  million rapid tests a month by December. Stefanie Friedhoff, a professor focusing on the pandemic, at Brown Universitys School of Public Health, told CBS News that the US governments emphasis on vaccines as a way to attack the virus reduced the incentive for test manufacturers to ramp up production. Those companies that had invested in making them did not have a market in the US for so long, so they shipped them to other countries or they stopped making them, she said. Abbott laid off  workers in the beginning of the summer, citing the steep decline in demand for the companys COVID testing products due to vaccines. Some . million of the testing papers were reportedly shredded while the layoffs were happening. A couple of months later, Abbott rushed to rehire workers and frantically shore up resources to make hundreds of millions of BinaxNOW kits after getting a federal contract in September to produce between . million and  million of the tests for . million to . million. Mara Aspinall, a faculty member at Arizona State University and a board member at Orasure, which makes an overthecounter coronavirus test, said that the Biden administration is focused on providing cheaper tests with broader access, and the price would have to go down to no more than  per test to encourage more people to regularly test themselves to limit infections. The cost for a week for a family of four is still a very large number. And even people who can afford that dont want to pay that much money, and as a result they are saying, Do I really need to test? And they are saving the test they buy for the special event, Aspinall told CBS in a recent interview. Aspinall said that broader availability of rapid tests, combined with vaccine mandates, could effectively end the pandemic. If we had a testing regimen that was a regular process for even asymptomatic people who have been vaccinated and we could do this broadly and we had enough tests  many more than we had today  we could end this in a few months, she told CBS. Even if the US government manages to bring down the cost to  per test, that would still underperform the UK and other European countries. The Financial Times reported that the UK government has invested about  billion  approximately . billion  to provide free tests to schools, workplaces and members of the public. In Germany, the government had provided free rapid antigen tests from March until Oct  to encourage the remaining  percent of the population to get vaccinations.