Beijing unveils plan for Mideast security
2021-03-27 08:02
State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi R receives an interviewwith Saudi Arabian broadcaster Al Arabiya on March , . PhotoXinhua    Israel, Palestine negotiations supported Iran nuclear deal identified as a priority Beijing has unveiled a fivepoint proposal for achieving security and stability in the Middle East by offering constructive boosts to PalestineIsrael dialogue, resuming the Iran nuclear deal and building a security framework in this region. China welcomes direct negotiations between Palestine and Israel to take place in the country, according to State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yis interview with Saudi Arabian broadcaster Al Arabiya earlier this week. Peaceful figures from both sides will be further invited to travel to China to embark on dialogues, said Wang, who is on a sixstop Middle East trip that started on Wednesday. China is ready to push for the United Nations Security Councils comprehensive review of the Palestinian issue and reconfirm the twostate solution as its Security Council presidency is set to start in May this year, Wang added. On the Iran nuclear deal, Wang identified top priorities for both the United States and Iran, the two key players in the lingering nuclear issue. Washington should take substantial steps to ease unilateral sanctions upon Teheran and its longarm jurisdiction upon third parties involved, while Iran, in a response, should resume honoring its nuclearrelated commitments and achieve an early harvest, he said. All parties should move toward the same goal and discuss formulating a road map and timetable for the US and Iran to resume fulfilling the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action that was adopted in , he said. The US quit the deal in  under the Trump administration. Iran suspended fulfilling the deal last year. At the same time, the international community should support the efforts of regional countries in establishing a zone free of nuclear weapons and other weapons of mass destruction in the Middle East, Wang added. Speaking on the collective security in the Middle East, Wang highlighted the need to crack down on terrorism and advance deradicalization processes. China is calling for hosting a multilateral dialogue meeting on the Gulf regions security, and parties could first pin discussion on securing oil facilities and shipping lane security, Wang said. In addition, China vows to promote mutual respect and peaceful coexistence in the region, and is ready to advance cooperation related to development, Wang added, highlighting areas such as economic recovery and reconstruction in conflicttorn countries. China is willing to maintain communication and close coordination with all parties on the abovementioned initiatives, Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying said on Friday. For the Middle East, the fundamental way to shift from chaos to order is to escape from the geographical game among major powers, mitigate interference and pressure from outside the region, explore the development path with its own characteristics, and build a security framework that takes into account the reasonable concerns of all parties, Hua said. China has signed documents with  countries in the Middle East on cobuilding the Belt and Road Initiative. Last year, trade volume between China and Arab countries was close to  billion, and China remains the largest trading partner of Arab countries as a whole. On ChinaArab ties, Wang noted that Saudi Arabia has pledged to host the first ChinaArab summit, and Beijing is working closely with Riyadh to make the gathering a success. Wang also appreciated staunch support by Middle East nations of Chinas justified position regarding Xinjiang and Hong Kong.