First shots of US COVID vaccination drop to record low
2021-10-28 09:47
A medical staff member administers a PfizerBioNTech coronavirus COVID vaccine at a VAXTOSCHOOL popup site at Life of Hope Center on Oct ,  in New York City. PhotoAgencies    WASHINGTON  The daily count of people receiving first shots of COVID vaccines in the United States dropped to a record low since vaccines were available in the country last December, as experts stressed urgency for the vast unvaccinated to take the first step. The daily count of people getting dose  has been decreasing since midAugust, reaching a record low of , on Tuesday, according to latest data of the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention CDC. The average number initiating vaccination each day is down  percent from last week. The slowdown came as the recent wave of the pandemic continues to show signs of easing in the country. New daily COVID cases in the United States have fallen by nearly  percent nationwide since a peak in midSeptember brought by the highly transmissible Delta variant. But some northeastern states are starting to see new outbreaks, and the nation is still averaging nearly , daily cases and more than , deaths per day, according to CDC data. About  million people have been fully vaccinated in the United States as of Wednesday, accounting for . percent of the whole population. About . million people have received booster shots. Advisers to the US Food and Drug Administration FDA on Tuesday recommended authorizing the PfizerBioNTech COVID vaccine for children ages  to . They found that the benefits of the vaccine outweighed the risks for this younger population. It is now up to the FDA and the CDC to make a final decision. If authorized, it would be the first COVID vaccine for younger children. Health experts said getting younger kids eligible for COVID vaccines could impact the trajectory of the pandemic. However, to convince the vast unvaccinated population to take the first step remains key to ending the pandemic.