Criminal gangs exploiting vaccine demand warns WHO chief
2021-03-27 03:37
Tedros AdhanomGhebreyesus, WHO directorgeneral. PhotoAgencies    The World Health Organization has raised concerns about the possibility of criminal groups exploiting demand for vaccines. Tedros AdhanomGhebreyesus, WHO directorgeneral, said a number of ministries of health, national regulatory authorities and public procurement organizations had reported receiving suspicious offers of COVID vaccine supplies. The WHO has also received reports that vaccines are being diverted and reintroduced into the supply chain, with no guarantee that cold chain has been maintained. Fake products are also being sold as vaccines online, especially through the dark web, and there are also reports of corruption and reuse of empty vaccine vials, according to the WHO. We urge the secure disposal or destruction of used and empty vaccine vials to prevent them from being reused by criminal groups, Tedros said. The health organization is asking people not to buy vaccines outside governmentrun vaccination programs and warned any vaccines purchased outside these programs could be substandard or falsified, with the potential to cause serious harm. Its important to remember that any harm caused by a falsified product does not reflect a safety failure of the genuine vaccine, he said. We urge all countries and individuals to pay careful attention to this issue. Any suspicious sale of vaccines should be reported to national authorities, who will report it to WHO. Information flow is essential to map global threats and protect confidence in vaccines. Meanwhile, vaccination programs are underway in  countries and economies, the WHO said. In just one month, COVAX, a program that is trying to ensure everyone in the world has access to a COVID vaccine, has distributed more than  million vaccines to  countries. But bilateral deals and vaccine nationalism have left COVAX with a shortage of vaccines, the WHO said. COVAX is ready to deliver, but we cant deliver vaccines we dont have, Tedros said. Bilateral deals, export bans, vaccine nationalism and vaccine diplomacy have caused distortions in the market, with gross inequities in supply and demand. He called on countries with WHOapproved vaccine supplies to donate some of their stocks to COVAX, which is seeking  million doses. There are plenty of countries who can afford to donate doses with little disruption to their own vaccination plans, Tedros said. Sharing doses is a tough political choice, and governments need the support of their people. Im encouraged by surveys in highincome countries showing widespread support for vaccine equity.