Zimbabwe president gets first Chinese vaccine dose
2021-03-26 14:44
Zimbabwes President Emmerson Mnangagwa receives his first shot of the Sinovac COVID vaccine in Victoria Falls, March , . PhotoXinhua    Zimbabwes President Emmerson Mnangagwa on Wednesday received his first shot of the Sinovac COVID vaccine in Victoria Falls, from where he officially launched the second phase of the coronavirus national mass vaccination drive. I just received my COVID vaccine! Zimbabweans  the vaccine is safe and effective. I urge you all to get your jab, he said on his Twitter account after being inoculated. Victoria Falls is strategic to the launch of COVID mass vaccination program as it is the countrys prime tourism destination, and the first place to record the first case of COVID in March last year. In receiving the shot, Mnangagwa was joined by leaders of political parties, among them President of the Movement for Democratic Change Douglas Mwonzora, who got his second dose in Harare, Zimbabwes capital, on Wednesday morning. Defence Minister Oppah Muchinguri also got her COVID vaccine shot. The inoculation of President Mnangagwa and political party leaders is expected to instil peoples confidence in the countrys vaccination campaign. In early February, the Zimbabwe Medicines Control Authority authorised the emergency use of four COVID vaccines including Sinovac and Sinopharm from China, Russias Sputnik V and Indias Covaxin, effectively paving the way for a national vaccination program. Zimbabwe then kicked off its COVID vaccination rollout on February  after receiving its first donation of , doses of the Sinopharm COVID vaccine from China. On March , Mnangagwa received a second donation of , doses of the Sinopharm vaccine becoming one of a few countries in the world that have so far received a second batch of vaccines from China. On the same day, the Zimbabwe government also took delivery of , doses of the . million Sinovac vaccine doses it purchased from China. The remainder of the vaccines will arrive at the end of March. After targeting health workers and journalists, the second stage of the countrys vaccination program is prioritizing teachers, the clergy, judiciary, security services and the elderly. By March , a tally from Ministry of Health and Child Care indicated that , people had been vaccinated against COVID. China has donated and sold vaccines to about  African countries, many of whom have used the vaccines to rollout their national inoculation programs.