China, Turkey reject politicization of COVID vaccine cooperation
2021-03-26 10:05
Visiting Chinese State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi L touches elbows with Turkish Foreign Minister Mevlut Cavusoglu during their meeting in Ankara, Turkey, on March , . PhotoXinhua    ANKARA  China and Turkey on Thursday agreed to oppose the attempt by some countries to politicize the COVID vaccine cooperation, while pledging to continue their cooperation in fighting the pandemic. Meeting with Turkish Foreign Minister Mevlut Cavusoglu, visiting Chinese State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi said that China will continue to support Turkeys anticoronavirus fight until it achieves a full victory. Wang said that he believes the ChinaTurkey traditional friendship will be further solidified through the joint fight against the pandemic. The Chinese diplomat said that some powers attempt to politicize vaccine cooperation and attach labels to it, which undermines the global fight against the pandemic and should be rejected by all nations. Cavusoglu applauded Chinas vaccine cooperation with Turkey, adding that Turkey expects to deepen such cooperation. He said that Turkey rejects the vaccine politicization and is willing to work with China to jointly push forward the construction of a global community of health for all. Wang hailed the great progress made in the ChinaTurkey strategic cooperative relations under the guidance of the leaders of both countries, citing that the bilateral ties have stood the test of the pandemic as the two countries offer mutual support and assistance to overcome the difficulties and deepen the friendship between the two peoples. He expressed Chinas willingness to work with Turkey to enhance mutual trust, boost mutually beneficial cooperation, and elevate the strategic cooperative relations to a new level. Wang stressed that the essence of the Xinjiangrelated issues is fighting terrorism and separatism. He said that China supports the independence and sovereignty of Turkey, including its rights to choose the social system, model of economic development, and path of development that fit its own national conditions, while expecting continued support from Turkey on the issues related to Chinas core interests and major concerns. Noting that the ChinaTurkey cooperation is alldimensional, Wang suggested the two sides make good use of all kinds of cooperative mechanisms to increase exports of Turkeys quality products to China, currency swaps, major projects, and peopletopeople exchanges, so to achieve better results in their winwin cooperation. The Chinese diplomat also underlined Chinas willingness to strengthen its strategic coordination with Turkey in supporting multilateralism, rejecting unilateralism, safeguarding the international system with the United Nations at its core and the international order based on international law, and jointly building a community with a shared future for mankind. China, which has proposed a fivepoint initiative for achieving the security and stability in the Middle East based on the wills of most countries in the region, is ready to work with Turkey to maintain regional peace and stability, Wang said. He added that China welcomes Turkeys delegation to take part in the  Beijing Winter Olympic Games. For his part, Cavusoglu said that Turkey has always abided by the oneChina principle and is committed to elevate the TurkeyChina strategic cooperative ties. He vowed that his country will never get involved in any actions that are hostile to China, while prohibiting any violent terrorist acts against China on its territory. The Turkish diplomat expressed the hope to strengthen Turkeys cooperation with China on implementing major projects, deepen the synergy of its Central Corridor plan with Chinas Belt and Road Initiative, increase exports to China, and expand the peopletopeople exchanges. Cavusoglu lauded Chinas initiative for the peace and stability in the Middle East, pledging to enhance Turkeys communication and coordination with China on regional issues. He also said that Turkey has always opposed politicizing sports events, and will encourage Turkish athletes to actively take part in the  Beijing Winter Olympic Games. The two foreign ministers also exchanged indepth views on international and regional issues of common concern.