Pandemic and recovery present challenges to logistics and transport
2021-03-24 14:32
Workers unload freight for SF Express at Xingdong Airport, Nantong, Jiangsu province. PhotoChina Daily    The COVID pandemic has spread rapidly across the globe, creating an unprecedented situation. It has put many lives at risk, disrupted the global economy and changed the way people work and live. This global crisis is likely to be one of the most severe ever recorded, but its impact differs by industry. According to PwCs Transport and Logistics Barometer in January , due to the industrys dependence on other industries, trends in transport and logistics mirror those in global economic activity. Freight transport and logistics have been comparatively robust on average, yet there are major differences within its subsectors. Passenger transport, in contrast, has suffered huge declines in all subsectors and is possibly one of the hardesthit industries. COVIDinduced lockdown measures as well as safety concerns have stimulated the use of ecommerce, thus boosting the Courier, Express and Parcel market considerably. The cold chain market is being driven by a growing online food market and demand for chilled and frozen foods. The scale of Chinas realtime delivery market has reached hundreds of billions, with more than  million users. According to the China Federation of Logistics and Procurement, the number of users in Chinas realtime delivery market increased from  million to  million from  to , with a compound annual growth rate of . percent . During the same period, the size of Chinas realtime delivery market increased from . billion yuan to . billion yuan, with a CAGR of . percent. In , it is expected that the number of users and market size of Chinas realtime delivery market will reach  million and worth . billion, respectively, with a yearonyear increase of . percent and . percent, respectively. The main drivers for the growth of the realtime delivery market are twofold. During the pandemic, due to the need to stay home, residents online purchase demands for food delivery, fresh and daily necessities have increased significantly. After experiencing the convenience of realtime delivery service, consumers online purchase habits have strengthened. Ecommerce has also maintained rapid development. During each ecommerce shopping festival, order volume surges and express companies cannot fully digest it. There is a large demand, and realtime delivery riders can be a supplement to the capacity of express companies. The categories of realtime delivery are also expanding from food delivery to fresh fruits and vegetables, flowers, cakes, medical drugs, document delivery and other areas. At present, food delivery is still the largest category in the realtime delivery market. In terms of order volume, Meituan and Ele.me account for about  percent. Meanwhile, the proportion of other subcategories is gradually expanding. Food delivery orders accounted for  percent in , and dropped to  percent in , while orders for fresh fruits and vegetables, groceries, fresh flowers and cakes increased, accounting for  percent ,  percent and  percent respectively. From an economic perspective,  has been the most devastating year in air transport history since World War II, with COVID causing a total net loss to the airline industry of almost  billion. However, domestic air travel in China recovered early, and will catch up to precrisis levels toward the last quarter of . China and countries abroad started vaccination programs in midDecember  and newly diagnosed worldwide COVID daily cases has dropped from the peak of , cases to less than , cases. Currently, the progress and coverage of vaccination programs have exceeded expectations, and all the major China domestic airlines are expected to have relatively high recovery potential as the coverage of the vaccination programs in the United States and United Kingdom continues to expand. The National Health Commission reported no new locally transmitted COVID cases since the end of February. If this trend continues, the pandemic will be basically controllable by the end of . Air transportation in spring of  is expected to resume or even exceed levels in . World trade is showing signs it is beginning to recover from the collapse caused by COVID. Chinas GDP grew by . percent in  and is targeting to grow by at least  percent for . The IMF October  World Economic Outlook report projects that the global economy will grow by . percent in  after shrinking by . percent in . It shows positive growth rates for , but most businesses  particularly in passenger transport  may continue to face farreaching challenges and high uncertainty. The challenge of distributing vaccines worldwide is causing some to speak of the systemic importance of logistics. With an estimated  million vaccine doses per month, the global vaccination campaign is an unprecedented, mammoth task  not only for national health systems, but also for the logistics industry. Major challenges include securing transport and storage capacity and refrigeration of the vaccines, continuous traceability, protection against tampering and theft and disposal of medical equipment. Many companies have already made corresponding investments. The global vaccination campaign is becoming a litmus test for pharmaceutical and cold chain logistics. Alan Ng is a Partner and the Chinese mainland  Hong Kong Transportation  Logistics Leader at PwC. Tenghan Lim is a Senior Manager of the China Transportation  Logistics Sector at PwC. The opinions expressed here are those of the writer and do not necessarily represent the views of China Daily and China Daily website.