AstraZeneca to publish full data from vaccine trial after objections
2021-03-24 11:08
A vial labelled with the AstraZeneca coronavirus disease COVID vaccine is seen in this illustration picture taken March , . PhotoAgencies    A safety board that oversaw the US clinical trial of AstraZenecas COVID vaccine warned that the results released by the company on Monday may have included outdated and potentially misleading data. In response, AstraZeneca said it would publish uptodate results from its latest vaccine trial within  hours. In a rare move, the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases NIAID released a statement early Tuesday, saying that the Data and Safety Monitoring Board DSMB, which is monitoring the AstraZeneca vaccine trial, is concerned that the trial result may have included outdated information. If the company did include such information, it may have provided an incomplete view of the efficacy data, the NIAID said in the statement. The DSMB, an independent group of health experts appointed by the National Institutes of Health to review clinical studies, also notified other federal health agencies and AstraZeneca directly of its concerns, according to National Public Radio. Dr Anthony Fauci, President Joe Bidens chief medical adviser and director of NIAID since , told the Financial Times that he had never seen that happen before. He said the data board wrote a rather harsh note to him and AstraZeneca. When they saw the release, they were quite upset, he told the Financial Times. We felt it was essential that we, the NIH, needed to have some sort of response, otherwise it would look like we were covering something up. Fauci also discussed the issue on ABCs Good Morning America and said that AstraZenecas release was an unforced error. He said that the data are quite good, but when they put it into the press release, it wasnt completely accurate. AstraZeneca, in its statement released Tuesday morning, said the data it released Monday included cases up to Feb , and it promised to update and reissue its trial results in  hours. We will immediately engage with the independent data safety monitoring board to share our primary analysis with the most uptodate efficacy data. We intend to issue results of the primary analysis within  hours, the Cambridge, Englandbased company said. The company said it had reviewed the preliminary assessment of its full, or primary analysis, and the results were consistent with the interim analysis. The company is now completing the validation of the statistical analysis. The companys statement contradicts the NIAID concerns, which imply that data collected after Feb  changed the trials findings on the vaccines efficacy. AstraZeneca reported Monday that its COVID vaccine is  percent effective against symptomatic COVID and has  percent efficacy against severe or critical disease and hospitalization. The company said it was going to apply for emergency authorization from the Food and Drug Administration FDA by midApril, so its vaccine, which is already being made in the US, could be available by the end of May. The new doubts about the shots efficacy cloud the timeline for its emergencyuse authorization in the US. The trial confusion also comes as  European countries temporarily suspended the AstraZeneca vaccine last week after reports of a handful of recipients reporting blood clots. The European Medical Authority EMA investigated the concerns and declared on Thursday that the vaccine was safe and effective and was not linked with a rise in the overall risk of blood clots. At the same time, Pfizer Inc announced an earlystage US trial of a new pill that could be used at the first sign of infection, the company said Tuesday. Pfizer, which already has an authorized COVID vaccine in the US with German drugmaker BioNTech, said the new oral antiviral drug, named PF, is a protease inhibitor that works by inhibiting an enzyme that the virus needs to reduplicate in human cells. If the virus cannot replicate, then it cannot further infect the host. Lab studies have demonstrated potent antiviral activity against SARSCoV and other coronaviruses, Pfizer said. Tackling the COVID pandemic requires both prevention via vaccine and targeted treatment for those who contract the virus, Pfizers chief scientific officer, Mikael Dolsten, said in a statement. Given the way that SARSCoV is mutating and the continued global impact of COVID, it appears likely that it will be critical to have access to therapeutic options both now and beyond the pandemic.