UK extends booster jab rollout to contain virus
2021-11-22 09:37
A woman looks on as she receives the COVID booster vaccine, amid the coronavirus disease COVID pandemic, at Midland House in Derby, Britain, Sept , . PhotoAgencies    The United Kingdom government has confirmed COVID booster vaccine shots will be available for those aged over  from Monday after scientists last week advised that the inoculation campaign be extended in the runup to Christmas. As cases of COVID are rising in Europe and some countries have introduced further restrictions, Britains health secretary, Sajid Javid, said the booster vaccines would help prevent a new wave of infections in the UK. In a government news release, Javid said While the government is continuing to monitor a wide range of data to ensure the country remains protected, we have very sadly seen a surge in cases in parts of Europe. The most important thing we can do to stop a similar rise in this country is get the jabso please get your vaccines as soon as you can so we can keep the virus at bay. On advice from the Joint Committee on Vaccination and Immunisation, or JCVI, the National Booking Service for vaccines will open to those over s and young people aged . The update to the vaccine campaign will apply in England, while the devolved governments of Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland are expected to follow soon. The National Health Service said almost , people in their s are now eligible for the booster, having received their second jab at least six months ago. Data from the Office for National Statistics shows vaccine confidence in the UK is high, with  percent of those aged  to  saying they would be likely to get their COVID booster if offered, with the figure rising to  percent for those over . Government figures show a total of  million people in the UK have already received their booster vaccines, with more than  million first doses, or . percent, and  million second doses, or . percent, given. New data published by the UK Health Security Agency has highlighted the importance of receiving third jabs, the governments statement noted. The study on the effectiveness of booster vaccines showed they bring protection back up to over  percent against symptomatic COVID in adults aged over . Research showed that two weeks after receiving a booster dose, protection against symptomatic infection in adults aged  years and over was . percent in those with OxfordAstraZeneca as their primary course, and . percent for those who received the PfizerBioNTech vaccine. Scientists said that although vaccine effectiveness against severe disease remains high, a small change in immunity levels can cause a significant increase shift in hospital admissions. Evidence from the UKs Scientific Advisory Group for Emergencies, or SAGE, said a change from  percent to  percent protection against hospitalization would lead to a doubling of admissions in those vaccinated.