Speech by Premier Li at the th ASEAN Plus China, Japan, ROK Summit
2021-10-28 05:46
Chinese Premier Li Keqiangspeaks during the virtual the th ASEAN Plus China, Japan, ROK Summit onOctober , . PhotoXinhua    Speechby H.E.Li Keqiang Premier of the State Council ofthe Peoples Republic of China At thethASEAN Plus China, Japan, ROK Summit Beijing,  October  Your Majesty Sultan Hassanal, Colleagues, It is my great pleasure to attend the th ASEAN Plus Three APT Summit via video link and discuss with you plans for East Asian development. I would like to thank His Majesty the Sultan and the Bruneian government for the thoughtful arrangements made for the summit. The APT countries enjoy geographical proximity and our futures are closely interconnected. Over the past plus years, we have kept to the overall direction of cooperation, continuously advanced regional economic integration and jointly responded to challenges on the public health, energy, food and financial fronts. These efforts have bolstered our development at home and prosperity and stability in East Asia. WhenCOVID was at its height last year, we held the Special APTSummitagainst the odds. The APT countries have helped and supported each other, waged a joint fight against the coronavirus and kept the regional industrial and supply chains stable. We have taken the joint decision to sign the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership Agreement RCEP and strive for its early entry into force, to enhancethe resilience and vitality of the regional economy and instill confidence and impetus into the economic recoveryin our region. As we meet,the world is still seeingfurther spreadof the coronavirus. Regional countries face multiple challenges on financial stability and energy security as they pursue a sustainable recovery. President Xi Jinping has put forward the important initiative of building a community with a shared future with neighbors.We need to make the most of themature mechanisms of cooperation and rich experience in crisis response, to navigatethis trying timeand meetchallenges together. We need to promote coordinated progress in epidemic control andeconomic and social development, boost an allround and balanced recovery of East Asia and safeguard longstanding prosperity and stability in the region. Colleagues, Next year will mark the th anniversary of APT cooperation. Taking itasa new starting point, we need to enhance planning, spur innovation and jointly build a more open and inclusive East Asia that enjoys sustainable development. Here, I wish to make the following proposals First, we need to improve public health governance.One pressing task at the moment is to keep up the production capacity of vaccines, ensure their fair distribution in developing countries and accelerate the vaccination process. We need to expedite the building of the APT Reserve of Medical Supplies for Public Health Emergencies, and China is ready to provide  million RMB yuan of support for the Reserve. China is building an information system platform for global COVID data integration and risk analysisand a system of APT tabletop exercise for public health emergenciesto help bolster regional capacity for epidemicresponse. China supports adopting the APT LeadersStatement on Cooperation on Mental Health Among Adolescents and Young Children at this summit to promote the healthy and wellrounded development of ouryounger generation. Second, we need to deepen regional economicintegration.East Asian countries are closely interconnected economically and enjoy strong impetus for cooperation. We need to coordinatemore closely onmacro economic policies,and adopt more opentrade and investment policies tosupport global economic recovery. Asa signature outcome of East Asian cooperation, the RCEP will soon reach the threshold of entry into force. We need to hasten work for the agreement to take effect as early as possible, andcontinue to advancefree trade and pursue higherlevel integration. China will host capacity building programs such as personnel training and experience sharing on RCEPimplementationfor interested governments, business chambers or associations and companies of ASEAN countries. Chinawill also organizea symposium for highstandard implementation of the RCEP next year and welcomes your active participation. Chinaproposes that the PlusThree countries jointly deepen thirdparty investment cooperation in ASEAN, continue to work towardsetting up a ChinaJapanROK coinvestment fund and discuss the buildingof aChinaJapanROKInvestment Cooperation Partnership inASEAN, to facilitate regional economic recovery and development. China has officially applied to join the Comprehensive and Progressive Agreement for TransPacific Partnership CPTPP. We will continue to expand openingup and work for an open multilateral trade and investment system in the region. Third, we need to enhance industrial cooperation in East Asia.Easycrossborder flow of personnel and goods is thecornerstone for keeping industrial and supply chains smooth. China supports extending the ASEAN Travel Corridor ArrangementFramework toall APT countries and better harnessing the existing fast tracksand green lanes, to facilitate regional economic circulations. We need to implement well the Connecting the Connectivities Initiative,and promote the orderly flow and efficient allocation of such factors asgoods, technologies, services and capitalacross the region. China will host an APT forum for cooperation on industrial and supply chains, support businesses of APT countries in building communicationplatforms in key fields, and carry out exchanges and cooperation regardingcollaborationbetween upstream and downstream firms and strongerresilience of industrial and supply chains against risks. Taking a longterm view, China is ready to conduct joint research with regional countries to explore ways forgreater policycoordination and standard harmonizationand coordinated and balanced development of industrial and supply chains, toenhanceand elevatethe overall competitiveness of the East Asian region. Fourth, we need to promote the digital economy in East Asia.Digital transformation is becoming a source of impetus for economic development and industrial upgrading. We need to seize this opportunity,tap intothe scaleof markets, advance cooperation on digital infrastructure building in information communication, cloud computing and data centers, and expand cooperation on digital tradeand othernewareas. China is ready to help businesses withdigital capacitybuilding throughthe APT SME Service Alliance, and will hostthe APT Young Scientists Forum and other activities to help regional countries bridge the digital divide. Chinas Data Security Lawand Personal Information Protection Lawhave officially entered into force. In linewith the principle of extensive consultationand shared governance, China will step up exchanges with allparties on cyberspace governance, digital governanceand cybersecurity, and work towardopen, inclusive, safe and sharedgovernance rules. Fifth, we need to energize financial cooperation.China welcomes the entry into force of the amended Chiang Mai Initiative MultilateralizationCMIM Agreement. We will work with all parties to explore pathways for contributing tothe CMIMin local currencies andacceleratethe development of innovativetoolstomeet the needs of member states. China will positively consider makingadditional financial contributions to the China Technical Assistance Trust Fundunder the ASEAN Plus Three Macroeconomic Research Office AMRO. Taking the th anniversary of AMRO inception asan opportunity, we may exploreexpanding the functions of AMROtofurther enhance its role in regional economic and financial governance. Meanwhile, we need to intensifyAMROs coordination with such institutions as the Asian Development Bank and the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank. Moreover, we need to accelerate innovation on financial cooperation, promote cooperation in green finance, supply chain finance and infrastructure financing, and identify more areas of cooperation. Sixth, we need to promote green and sustainable growth.We need to take a sciencebased and practical approach, promoteagreen and lowcarbon transition inenergy consumption and way of life and production without compromising energy security,and steer global development toward a new stage of balanced, coordinated and inclusive growth. China proposes setting up an APTlowcarbon cooperationpartnershipto boost cooperation through policy communication, case study and capacity building. China will continue to host the APT Clean Energy Roundtable Dialogue and strengthen clean energy research cooperation and technology transfer in the region. China is ready to share its poverty reduction experience with relevant countries and work for the effective implementation of projects under the East Asian Cooperation Initiative on Poverty Reduction phase II. Meanwhile, support andinputforthe ASEAN Plus Three Emergency Rice Reserve APTERR need to be increased to better protect regional food security. China will continue to import quality agricultural products from Southeast Asian countries. Moreover, an APT ministerial meeting mechanism on disaster managementneeds tobe established as early as possibleandexchanges and dialogue on climate change among coastal cities in the region carried out, to enhance preparedness against disasters. Colleagues, China is ready to work with all parties to promote regional economic recovery, foster a strong pillar of growth for the world economy and jointly maintain peace and stability in the region and the world at large. Thank you.