UK remains preferred for overseas education
2021-03-23 09:14
A visitor consults at the UK counter at China Education Expo in Beijing in October . Photo provided to China Daily    The United Kingdom has eclipsed the United States as the most preferred overseas study destination for Chinese mainland students for the third year in a row, a new report showed. According to the  White Book on Chinese Students for Overseas Education, the UK was preferred by . percent of respondents, while the US was preferred by . percent. The UK first topped the table in , before last years COVID outbreak disrupted many students overseas study plans, with . percent preferring the UK and  percent the US. Australia was the third most popular destination this year with . percent, followed by Canada at . percent, Hong Kong at . percent and Japan at . percent. The report, released by education consultancy EIC Education on Saturday, was based on a survey of , students. It found that the COVID pandemic remained a major factor in students overseas study decisions. Around  percent of respondents said they would only feel safe studying abroad when travel restrictions were removed, would do so when their study destination had very few or no COVID cases, when offline teaching had been restored and campuses reopened, and they had received COVID vaccinations. The report also found that more students intend to pursue masters degrees abroad, with . percent choosing to do so this year, up by . percentage points from .Meanwhile, only . percent of students chose to study at primary and secondary schools abroad, down . percentage points from . Shi Yunhe, a senior undergraduate student at a university in Nanjing, Jiangsu province, said he wants to study at the University of Birmingham or the University of Sheffield for a masters degree in finance. I have thought about the US, but it seems the country is too chaotic for the time being and not very friendly to Chinese students, he said. Shi said he is determined to attend offline courses and will consider delaying his studies if the pandemic is not under control. Zhang Ying, the mother of a high school student in Shanghai, said the family has prepared  million yuan , for her son to study in the UKfrom preparatory courses to undergraduate, postgraduate and doctoral studies in law, which her son was very interested in. I think he can attend a better university abroad than in China considering the fierce competition in the national college entrance exam, Zhang said. We do not care much about return on investment and we only want him to see the bigger world and learn something he really likes. In , , people from the Chinese mainland went abroad to study, up . percent yearonyear, according to the Ministry of Education.