Dozens arrested in antilockdown protests in central London
2021-03-21 22:23
Police officers stand guard during a protest against the lockdown, amid the spread of the coronavirus disease COVID, in London, Britain, March , . PhotoAgencies    LONDON  At least  people were arrested as thousands of people marched through central London under a heavy police presence to protest against lockdown measures, the Evening Standard newspaper reported Sunday. The Metropolitan Police said  people had been arrested by  pm  GMT on Saturday, many for breaching COVID regulations, said the newspaper. Thousands of people joined Saturdays demonstration, which travelled from Hyde Park to St Pauls Cathedral and back to Westminster ahead of the anniversary of Britains first lockdown which began on March  last year. It came after more than  British lawmakers and peers signed a letter warning that allowing the police to criminalize people for protesting is not acceptable and is arguably not lawful, said the newspaper. Among those attending the march were controversial actor Laurence Fox and Piers Corbyn, brother of the former Labour Party leader Jeremy Corbyn, according to the Londonbased newspaper. Crowds that gathered in Trafalgar Square were dispersed, while other demonstrators returned to Hyde Park. But police were met with more hostile responses there later in the evening on Saturday, as protesters threw bottles and cans at them and some officers were later forced to run back to their vans, said the newspaper. At about  pm  GMT, a hundred police officers wearing riot helmets and carrying shields arrived at Hyde Park and urged people to go home, the Guardian newspaper reported. On Feb , British Prime Minister Boris Johnson announced his longanticipated roadmap exiting the lockdown. The March  reopening of schools was first part of the fourstep plan which is expected to see all legal restrictions in England being removed by midJune. Other parts of Britain, including Wales and Norther Ireland, have also unveiled plans to ease the restrictions. Experts have warned Britain is still not out of the woods amid concerns over new variants and the risks of the public breaching restriction rules. To bring life back to normal, countries such as Britain, China, Germany, Russia and the United States have been racing against time to roll out coronavirus vaccines.