Only  of COVID patients generated an immune response
2021-03-20 08:30
A medical worker takes a passengers body temperature at Hankou Railway Station in Wuhan, Jan , . PhotoXinhua    Only  percent of people in Wuhan, Hubei province, who tested positive for COVID antibodies had generated adequate immune responses that can prevent reinfection for at least nine months, a study published by Chinese researchers on Friday showed. These results have underscored the essential role of mass vaccination in establishing herd immunity as natural infections may not invoke neutralizing antibodies that can fend off future infections, the study said. The new study, published in the medical journal The Lancet on Friday, tested and surveyed more than , residents across Wuhanthe hardesthit city in Chinathree times from April to December. Researchers involved in the study include those from the Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences  Peking Union Medical College, the Wuhan Disease Control and Prevention Center, the Chinese Center for Disease Control and Prevention and ChinaJapan Friendship Hospital. Of the  participants who tested positive for COVID antibodies in Wuhan as of last April,  percent of them had developed neutralizing antibodies during the first phase of surveys conducted in midApril. The rates remained stable at  percent in June and  percent in the period from October to December. Even at the epicenter of the pandemic in China, with more than , confirmed cases as of April , , the estimated seroprevalence prevalence of antibodies remains low, and around  percent of people with antibodies developed neutralizing antibodies, suggesting there is still lack of immunity in the population, said Wang Chen, head of the Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences  Peking Union Medical College, and the lead author of the study. The study said mass vaccination will be needed to reach herd immunity to prevent further resurgences of the pandemic. The study also shed light on the strength of immune responses invoked in people who had contracted the virus but showed no symptoms. These asymptomatic cases were found to carry lower levels of neutralizing antibodies compared with symptomatic patients, but their immunity levels also appeared to be longstanding, according to the study. The concentrations of neutralizing antibodies were relatively stable for at least nine months across the study period, regardless of whether the individuals were symptomatic or not, it said. The finding is expected to inject confidence into the ongoing immunization program as the duration of immunity conferred through natural infections or vaccines is unclear so far, with previous studies suggesting at least four to five months, according to the study.