China faces challenges, solves problems with effective planning
2021-03-19 16:16
The closing meeting of the fourth session of the th National Peoples Congress is held at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing on March , . Photo by Wang Jingchinadaily.com.cn    The recently published Report on the Work of the Government presents strong evidence of the advantages of socialism with Chinese characteristics for the countrys economic and social development. Cuba welcomes the Chinese governments macroeconomic planning capabilities. Despite the complexity of the international economic situation, China has been able to maintain the fulfillment of its strategic objectives. Each year, the release of this report, while the two sessions are taking place, has taken on greater relevance for both Chinese society and the international community. Particularly this year, the document presented by Premier Li Keqiang included accurate assessments on the fulfillment of the th FiveYear Plan , and projected the main priorities for the implementation of the th FiveYear Plan  as well as the longterm economic and social development goals through . The importance of this year cannot be understated in the execution of such strategic plans. I can summarize my impressions of this years report in three aspects consolidation of the Communist Party of Chinas capability to marshal the effort of the entire society to fulfill strategic goals the governments efforts to maintain a humancentered approach as an essential characteristic and third, the prevalence of a commitment to continue promoting economic development, where innovation plays a fundamental role. The end of  showed how China, in the midst of a difficult battle against COVID, managed to fulfill its dream of eradicating extreme poverty in rural areas, a fundamental component of the socalled first centenary goal of achieving a moderately prosperous society. In the last decade, more than . million people, as well as  rural counties and , towns, achieved this heroic victory, which would not have been possible without the determination of the CPC Central Committee, with President Xi at the core, as well as the existing harmony between the leading political force and the people. At the same time, the achievement of other transcendental goals has created a strong base for the subsequent development of the nation, such as surpassing a trillionyuan GDP, creating more than  million urban jobs and covering more than . billion people with basic health insurance and more than one billion people with the basic pension system. In my opinion, the achievement of these objectives was possible due to the existence of an efficient Party plan and a precise implementation through government structures, which validates the potentialities of Chinas socialist governance system. Also worthwhile is the governments mission to focus and improve the quality of social indicators in correspondence with the economic development achieved so far. The necessity to deepen reforms in health and public education systems has been highlighted, which shows the authorities desire to grant better access to basic services for the majority of the population. In parallel, the strategy of revitalizing rural areas, of vital importance in the new stage, and the planning for more than  million new urban jobs in  constitute a strong support for the promotion of locallevel policies to ensure social stability and avoid a regression in living standards of the most disadvantaged sectors. Forecasting economic growth of more than  percent may be considered a conservative figure for most economic analysts, but it reflects the essence of Chinas planning system and its commitment to a highquality development paradigm. Beijing, amid widespread international uncertainty, has not deviated from economic growth forecasts during recent years, and maintains a firm path toward the accomplishment of its short and mediumterm objectives. On the other hand, the country seeks to guide different government structures on the main priorities for economic development, which will continue to be based on promoting innovation and increasing highquality consumption. Under the new dynamics that the pandemic imposed on all sectors and the break with traditional market patterns, the search for innovative methods, products and services will be the starting point for the present and future development of humanity. We appreciate China has set challenging goals while relying on its ability to achieve them. China has shown to the world that these FiveYear Plans are a useful compass for promoting development in an organic, crosscutting way, while merging the development of Chinese regions and provinces into a national plan. The th FiveYear Plan will initiate the journey to CPCs stated purpose of building a modern socialist country by , which will allow the accumulation of experience while enriching the theory and practice of socialism with Chinese characteristics. The new plan should prioritize policies aimed at the production, commercialization and public use of biotechnology, vaccines, medical products and highstandard medical equipment. This projection is part of the CPCs social agenda aimed at reducing social and economic gaps, which should be consolidated as a projection of Chinese foreign policy in the next five years, in my point of view. We will closely monitor the commitment to turn innovation into the first driving force for development, a fact that confirms the relevance that China grants to this field for the future development, not only at the domestic scene, but also for building its ties with the outside world. Along with the advances made in scientific and technological innovation, it will also be interesting to observe the policies adopted within this period to improve the environments quality, an area where we have witnessed the progress made by the country in recent years, which represents a growing concern for the international community due to the devastating effects of climate change. Likewise, there is great expectation about the implementation of the new dual circulation strategy, generally seen as a macroeconomic policy, aimed at enhancing the internal capabilities of the Chinese market and achieving a better interconnection between the domestic and foreign markets through the continuity of the reform and openingup process. In this sense, we will pay special attention to the new strategic development poles, such as the ChongqingChengdu economic circle, BeijingTianjinHebei area and the promotion of pilot development zones, such as the new Hainan Free Trade Port. This new strategy complies with objectives set by our countries to seek new ways of integration into the Chinese market. In turn, it will be an indispensable tool for Beijing to continue making progress within the framework of the coordinated development of the different regions, especially as a determining factor to reduce the gaps that still exist between the central, western and eastern parts of the country, as well as between urban and rural areas. In accordance with its aspiration to build a community of shared destiny for humanity, we hope China maintains its defense of multilateralism, the basic principles of international law, solidarity and the prioritization of cooperation in the next five years in the international arena. In addition, we expect Beijing to keep its firm rejection of unilateralism and hegemony, blockades, protectionism, forced policies, double standards in the fight on terrorism, politically motivated campaigns, unfounded accusations, stigmatization with a clear xenophobic and discriminatory approach and the imposition of a unique model in the world. As stated in the PRC Constitutional amendments passed in March , the leadership of the Communist Party of China is the defining trait of socialism with Chinese characteristics. We appreciate that the leadership of Chinas Party is essential for the purpose of maintaining territorial integrity and defending Chinas sovereignty. We believe the development of New China has been made possible by the capability of the CPC to overcome challenges and to be clear about strategic objectives. The CPC reaches its th anniversary proving to be a leading political force deeply rooted among the people, with great and credible leadership in todays society. General Secretary Xi Jinping, together with the more than  million Party members, has managed to unite and lead a country which represents a fifth of the worlds population and has  ethnic minority groups, in order to achieve the timely materialization of strategic goals. The historical achievements made by China cannot be explained without addressing the role played by the CPC and its leaders since its founding in . From the victory of the Chinese Revolution in  led by Mao Zedong and the foundation of the Peoples Republic, to an economic takeoff after the rise of the Reform and Openingup policy undertaken by former leader Deng Xiaoping, to the reinforcement of the theory and values of socialism reflected in the thought of Comrade Xi Jinping, we are able to assess the Party has undergone a process of ideological crystallization reflecting the specific conditions of the country. In the most recent stage, the Cuban side applauds, among the main achievements, the complete victory against extreme poverty and the excellent management and control of the COVID epidemic. The ability of the CPC to make available to the people the resources generated by the whole society has been proved in each of these battles. At the same time, we admire their willingness to renew and overcome each stage of their economic development, keeping unchanged their founding principles and persisting in their original mission. Cuba and China celebrated the th anniversary of diplomatic relations last year, a framework where relations between the two parties are the cornerstone. In , both parties will hold events of transcendental importance. The Communist Party of Cuba is going to celebrate its Eighth Congress in April, a moment that will serve to continue strengthening the exchange of experiences on the construction of both socialist processes. The relations and political dialogue between the communist parties of Cuba and China are essential to preserve the special nature of the ties between both sides. Our two countries have been able to overcome the test of time, and have strived to strengthen political confidence in order to consolidate socialism in each nation. Although the economic and social conditions of Cuba and China are different, both parties share common political objectives. According to the new normal caused by the COVID pandemic, both communist parties aspire to turn vaccines against the disease into a public good, and have kept human beings at the center of the recovery process. In the face of socalled vaccine nationalism, Cuba and China can demonstrate to the world the advantages of socialism in terms of fighting this pandemic and preserving human health. Cuba appreciates the Communist Party of Chinas invariable support against the economic, commercial and financial blockade imposed by the US government against Cuba. This support has been key to resisting the United States isolation with its policy of unilateral sanctions, aimed at punishing the Cuban people in their struggle to build socialism. The celebration of the centenary of the Communist Party of China, in conjunction with the Eighth Congress of the Communist Party of Cuba, are two milestones we must celebrate with the confidence socialism is the right way to achieve ambitious goals for the benefit of the majority of people. The author is the Cuban ambassador to China. The opinions expressed here are those of the writer and do not necessarily represent the views of China Daily and China Daily website.