AMC Almost all US theaters open
2021-03-19 11:14
Moviegoers shop at concessions stands at a AMC theatre on reopening day during the outbreak of the coronavirus disease COVID, in Burbank, California, US, March , . PhotoAgencies    Moviegoing will return on Friday to almost all AMC Theatres in the US after they were shut down a year ago to curb the spread of the coronavirus. The worlds largest movietheater company announced Thursday that  percent of its US locations will be open on Friday, and  percent will be open by March . It was exactly one year ago that we closed all AMC locations in the United States. It gives me immense joy to say that by the end of next week we expect that  percent of our U.S. locations will have reopened, said Adam Aron, CEO and president of AMC Entertainment, in the announcement. As of late January,  of AMCs  US theaters and  of its  international theaters had reopened, with extensive masking, distancing and cleaning measures in place. Not included in the reopenings then were theaters in the top two markets  New York City and Los Angeles. AMC said that it expected to open  of its  locations in California by Monday. The company is preparing to resume operations at the rest of its California locations once the proper local approvals are in place. Its theaters can sell  percent or less of its available seats right now, and guests must be socially distanced. In California, the cap is  percent or  moviegoers per screening, whichever is less. AMC began reopening its  theaters in New York City on March . AMC, which operates about , theaters and , screens in the US and internationally, said it lost more than . billion in  due to theaters being shut down around the world because of the coronavirus. It had warned investors last year that bankruptcy was a possibility, but it raised money through new equity and capital debt. The reopening of most AMC theaters comes as millions of Americans have been vaccinated, and states are beginning to ease some of their coronavirus restrictions that have been in place for months. AMC said its safety and cleaning protocols include social distancing and automatic seat blocking in each theater, mandatory maskwearing, handsanitizing stations, upgraded air filtration, contactless ticketing and mobile ordering for food and drinks. Beyond bringing consumers back to its theaters, AMC will need Hollywood content to put on its screens. Regal Cinemas, the secondlargest chain in the US, has closed all of its theaters, citing a lack of films and audience. Hollywood is either holding back on its most attractive content or releasing its new films on streaming platforms at the same time that they are hitting theaters that are open. ATTs HBO Max is making every Warner Bros release in  available for home viewing. Many studios have either pushed the release dates of major films into  or created a hybrid model in which the theaters still in operation can show new releases while they are also made available through streaming or ondemand services. Last July, AMC and Universal Pictures signed a multiyear deal whereby Universal movies would play in AMC theaters for a minimum of  days before becoming available in homes through premium videoondemand. Universal signed a similar deal with Cinemark, the thirdlargest theater chain in North America, and Cineplex, Canadas top exhibitor, adding the provision that for movies opening to  million in ticket sales, the day window would stretch to  days.