Digital travel pass successfully trialed on first international flight
2021-03-19 09:59
People queue to enter terminal , as tighter rules for international travelers start, at Heathrow Airport, amid the spread of the coronavirus disease COVID pandemic, London, Britain, Jan , . PhotoAgencies    The first passenger using the International Air Transport Association, or IATA, Travel Pass app landed at Londons Heathrow Airport on Wednesday, on a Singapore Airlines flight from Changi Airport. The app trial allows travelers to store and manage certifications for COVID tests or vaccines. It can also be used to create a secure digital version of the passengers passport on their phone, input flight details for information on travel restrictions and requirements, as well as storing verified test results and a confirmation that they meet all travel requirements. Alexandre de Juniac, IATAs director general and CEO said The successful implementation of IATA Travel Pass in this trial with Singapore Airlines passengers demonstrates that technology can securely, conveniently and efficiently help travelers and governments to manage travel health credentials. The significance of this to restarting international aviation cannot be overstated. Singapore Airlines is the first carrier to try out the app, on flights from Singapore to London. Travelers will still need to bring a physical copy of the health certificate that is issued by the clinic where they took their COVID test, the airline said, which is in line with current regulatory requirements. The airline added that by consolidating the verification of health credentials into a single app, participants can expect a faster and more seamless checkin process. Digital health credentials will be essential as borders reopen and travel restrictions get progressively lifted worldwide, said JoAnn Tan, acting senior vice president of marketing planning at Singapore Airlines. The trial will run till March  and IATA said the app allows airlines to manage new travel requirements without drowning in inefficient and ineffective paper processes. Nick Careen, IATAs senior vice president of airport, passenger, cargo, security, said This reallife proof of concept should give all governments confidence that the industry has a workable digital solution that will ease the pressure of incorporating health certificate checks into the travel process, including at borders. In a recent IATA poll of travelers,  percent agree with the need for global standards and  percent said they are keen to use a mobile app to manage their travel credentials.