Study finds couch potatoes more likely to suffer insomnia
2021-03-19 09:35
A still of Chinas popular situation comedy   I Love My Family shows a character slouching on a sofa. PhotoLegal Evening News    While one in five people in China have symptoms of a sleep disorder, only one in  who exercise regularly report problems sleeping, according to a study released on Thursday by the Chinese Sleep Research Society. The COVID epidemic has also deepened the divide in sleeping patterns between couch potatoes and regular exercisers, as people who lead sedentary lifestyles and often sleep badly are less inclined to work out due to travel restrictions, causing further disruptions to their circadian rhythms, the study said. Experts said the results provide a strong impetus for people suffering persistent sleep disorders, such as insomnia, irregular breathing and frequent nightmares, to incorporate more exercise into their lives or upgrade their workout regimes. As the spread of the virus has been suppressed in China, a key step toward returning to normal lives should be going outdoors more often and working out more regularly, to tackle the increasing prevalence of sleep issues, said Guo Xiheng, head of Beijing Chaoyang Hospitals sleep research center and a member of the research society. Sleep disorders and insufficient sleeping hours have become more prominent in China in recent years. Previous reports released by the society showed that more than  percent of Chinese adults suffer from insomnia, with the rate climbing each year. Recent research from the Chinese Academy of Sciences also warned that more than  percent of children and teenagers do not get enough sleep on school days. The new study surveyed more than , people across the country on their sleep and exercise habits. Respondents in the southern province of Guangdong and Jilin province in Northeast China turned out to be the most active. They also reported higher rates of securing seven to eight hours of sleep at nightthe generally recommended length of sleep a dayand lower rates of insomnia. The study also found that exercising for at least half an hour daily, doing more fullbody cardio exercises such as swimming and boxing, and working out more in the morning, are some of the key factors that contribute to highquality sleep at night. Those who exercise for more than an hour a day and incorporate weight lifting in their workout plans also find it easier to pull themselves out of bed every morning after waking up, the study said. People who prefer ball sports, planking and situps report longer periods of slowwave sleep, or deep sleep, it said. Han Fang, from the respiratory department at Peking University Peoples Hospital, said chronic sleep deprivationmeaning sleeping less than seven hours for most adultswill boost the risk of premature death by  percent. Sound sleep at night is also closely linked to stronger immunity against disease. Recent research suggests individuals make sure they get enough sleep the night before receiving a COVID vaccine, to avoid weakening the efficacy of the vaccine, he said.