Gazing into a crystal ball
2021-03-19 07:59
JIN DINGCHINA DAILY    The US treasury market is the largest, deepest and most liquid bond market in the world. It is a pillar of the US dollars exorbitant privilege as the worlds dominant reserve currency and the bedrock of global capital markets. According to the Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association, as of Jan  , the total outstanding volume of the marketable US treasury securities was around  trillion. As of the third quarter of , the foreign and international holders accounted for around  percent of the total outstanding US treasury securities. The interest rates generated in the US treasury market serve as the benchmark from which all US dollar denominated financial securities are priced. Its not an overstatement to say that the US treasury interest rates are like gravity for asset valuation in the current global financial system. How to interpret the trends of the US treasury interest rates has profound implications for economic policymaking both in advanced economies and emerging markets. Over the past seven months, the year US treasury yield has risen from around . percent to the . percent level in March , which has caused substantial market agitation. A new narrative has taken hold that US inflation expectations and its budget deficit are deterring investors, and the US interest rate is poised to further escalate, with adverse consequences on the global financial markets. In particular, the US interest rate hikes do not bode well for emerging markets as asset prices and capital flows will likely become more volatile. However, its all too easy to extrapolate a recent shortrun trend into the future, which can be highly misleading. We need to take into consideration the context of the COVID pandemic and the consequent lockdowns of economies, and what the interest rate trends would be in the medium and long run without the  outlier events. In the medium term, while the market is testing the US Federal Reserves policy resolve, the US interest rates are unlikely to escalate out of control. Due to the COVID disruptions, the Fed has launched massive quantitative easing since March . It has expanded its balance sheet from . trillion to over . trillion over the past year and is now continuing its QE at a pace of  billion a month. The Fed has reiterated that it intends to keep the shortterm interest rate at zero through the end of . As shown in the aftermath of the global financial crisis, if the longterm interest rates rise too fast and risk derailing the US economy, the Fed can use targeted QE and yield curve control to keep longterm interest rates low as well. While economic reopenings have begun as the vaccine rollout in the United States and other major economies make substantial progress, we are still at an early stage of growth recovery. There are  million fewer people employed in the US now than a year ago, and millions more underemployed. There remains an abundance of slack in the US economy. The outlook for the eurozone economy is even weaker than that of the US. Its too early to worry about inflation. Moreover, debt ratios in major advanced economies are already so high that interest rate hikes, especially in a weak growth environment, may crash the financial sustainability of borrowers. Central banks cannot let interest rates rise substantially without risking undermining economic recovery and financial stability. For the US, the ratio of its total public debt in February  to its  GDP is . percent. As estimated by the US Congressional Budget Office, the US budget deficit in the fiscal year  will reach . trillion, or . percent of its GDP. It will be the secondhighest on record, after the . percent deficit in . With the upcoming . trillion fiscal stimulus, the US budget deficit in  is expected to be higher than the CBO forecast. There is considerable debate among economists on how interest rates and inflation will evolve in the long run. The year US treasury yield has been on a secular decline over the past four decades. Some economists argue that the global economy will continue to be stuck in an environment of low inflation, weak growth and low interest rates. Still others argue that we may be at a longterm inflection point from deflation to inflation, with US interest rates bottoming out and trending upwards. Given their aging populations, declining labor force growth and slowing globalization, major economies will likely face longrun inflationary pressures over the next three decades or so. Eventually, those economies with weak growth and unsustainable debt will have to face up to a day of reckoning. Regardless of how the longrun evolution will play out, its worth stressing that inflation is a process. In simple bond market lingo, inflation is not a sports car it cant and wont go from  to  mph in  seconds. The recent US dollar interest rate movement is arguably more about normalizing the abnormally low levels last year than a clear cut starting point of a secular reversal toward inflation and interest rates hikes. For developing countries at this stage, its still time to be bold in promoting growth, creating jobs, fostering innovation, and increasing productivity. Ultimately, it is highquality growth and sustainable wealth creation that are most needed to solve the deficit and debt problems. Alvin Chua is a managing director and global head of Equity and Fixed Income Sales of Trading and Research at BOC International and an adjunct professor of Lingnan College at Sun YatSen University. Li Chen is an assistant professor at the Centre for China Studies and Lau ChorTak Institute of Global Economics and Finance at the Chinese University of Hong Kong. The authors contributed this article to China Watch, a think tank powered by China Daily. The views do not necessarily reflect those of China Daily.