Zimbabwe president hails Chinas vaccine aid
2021-03-17 13:45
A booth displaying a coronavirus vaccine candidate from China National Pharmaceutical Group Sinopharm, is seen at the  China International Fair for Trade in Services CIFTIS, following the COVID outbreak, in Beijing, in this September ,  file photo. PhotoAgencies    Zimbabwe on Tuesday received a second batch of , vaccine doses donated by China, a separate consignment of , vaccine doses it procured from Sinovac and . million medical consumables bought from Sinopharm. Speaking at a handover ceremony held at the Robert Mugabe International Airport on March , President Emmerson Mnangagwa said Zimbabwe is the first country in Africa that has so far received a second batch of COVID vaccines from China. The current donation brings the total number of vaccine doses that China has donated to Zimbabwe to ,. In February, Zimbabwe received , doses of vaccines from China, becoming one of the first  developing nations to receive vaccine aid from the Asian giant. President Mnangagwa said the vaccination intervention would immensely help the country achieve its herd immunity goal of at least  percent of the population, and demonstrated the strong relations between Zimbabwe and China. We are making steady progress in the fight against the pandemic and in the ongoing national COVID vaccination rollout program, he said. We remain thankful to China for their support of this program. This includes the timely provision of epidemiological expertise and personal protective equipment, among other aspects. Guo Shaochun, the Chinese ambassador to Zimbabwe, said his country was pleased Zimbabwe was among the earliest to receive vaccine donations from China, and one of the few to which China has donated twice so far. This is the most powerful interpretation of the great friendship and solidarity between our two countries and our two peoples, he said. Guo revealed China had donated COVID vaccines to  developing countries in urgent need, and is exporting vaccines to  countries. More than  countries have authorized the use of Chinese vaccines, he said, adding the safety and effectiveness of Chinese vaccines are earning recognition across the world. The diplomat said China opposed vaccine nationalism. We reject any vaccine divide or any attempt to politicize vaccine cooperation. On Feb , Zimbabwe launched a nationwide COVID vaccination program prioritizing frontline workers and the media after taking delivery of vaccines from China. A total of , people have been vaccinated within the first  days of the inoculation exercise. Four vaccines  Sinopharm and Sinovac from China, Covaxin from India and SputnikV from Russia  have been authorised for emergency use by the Medicines Control Authority of Zimbabwe. In addition to the vaccine donation from China, the government has bought . million doses of vaccines from China and will receive , from Russia and , from India. The balance of  million vaccines from China is expected to arrive in the country at the end of March or early April. As of March , Zimbabwe had , confirmed COVID cases, including , recoveries and , deaths.