Vaccine trial team overcame challenges
2021-03-17 09:34
A worker prepares containers for COVID vaccine doses at a plant of the China National Biotec Group in Beijing on Jan . CHINA DAILY    Great Wall squad endured infection risks and sweltering heat in UAE After fighting viruses for much of her year career, Yang Yunkai, said she was mentally immune to the raging novel coronavirus and was determined to join in a team to develop a COVID vaccine that will help put an end to the pandemic. Yang, vicedirector of the China National Biotec Groups clinical medical center, was responsible for the technical matters during the phase  trial of CNBGs COVID vaccine development, which was filled with difficulties and challenges that tested her team. The data from third phase was vital to the final market approval, Yang, , said. Unlike the previous two phases, the phase  trial needed to be carried out in places where the COVID pandemic remains uncontrolled, offering trial subjects opportunities exposed to the virus. Because the virus was well under control on the Chinese mainland by the time phase  was ready to begin, it was necessary to conduct it elsewhere. After considering various countries and regions to hold the phase  trial for the inactivated COVID vaccine, CNBG choose the United Arab Emirates. The company received official approval to hold the trial there on June . CNBG was the first domestic medical company to carry out a trial for a COVID vaccine overseas. We chose the UAE not only because of longstanding friendship and mutual trust between the two countries, but because of the great support from both governments, said Zhu Jingjin, the CNBGs Party secretary. The UAE is an ideal partner as they are endeavoring to transform into a technologydriven country from a resourceconsuming one, which emphasizes more of its health industry. Having been involved in COVID vaccine development since last years Spring Festival in late January, Yang was instructed to go to the UAE in early July as part of the Great Wall squad.