France enters third wave of coronavirus pandemic PM
2021-03-17 09:12
The closed doors of a bar are seen in Paris as part of COVID restrictions measures to fight the coronavirus disease outbreak in France, March , . PhotoAgencies    PARIS  France has entered a form of third wave of the coronavirus pandemic characterized by numerous virus variants, Prime Minister Jean Castex said on Tuesday, stressing that his government still considers vaccination a top priority of its strategy to stem the spread of the virus. The outbreak is going into extra time, he told a hearing at the National Assembly, the lower house of Frances Parliament, which observed a moment of silence in memory of the ,plus victims of the pandemic one year after the first national lockdown. Mass vaccination, Castex said, will allow us to get out of the lockdown. The government has pledged to administer at least  million first vaccine doses by midApril,  million by midMay and  million by summer. As of Tuesday, ,, people had received at least one vaccine dose, according to the health authorities. Of the injected doses, . million were the AstraZeneca vaccines, whose use were suspended late Monday in France and in odd other European countries following reports of side effects, including blood clots in patients. Such a suspension would deal a very serious blow to the vaccination strategy in Europe, the French daily Le Monde said in an editorial on Tuesday. Faced with the saturation of intensive care services in IledeFrance the greater Paris region, only the acceleration of vaccination could give hope of avoiding a reconfinement. Any significant delay would render this expectation null and void, said the paper. In IledeFrance, the most populous region and the countrys main economic hub with  million inhabitants, , COVID patients were in hospital, including , in intensive care, according to the latest official data. On Tuesday, the health authorities reported , new infections across the country, bringing the cumulative total to ,,. The number of singleday deaths jumped to , taking the total to ,.