Xi vows greater solidarity amid virus
2021-03-17 07:08
President Xi Jinping, who is also general secretary of the Communist Party of China Central Committee and chairman of the Central Military Commission. PhotoXinhua    President tells Trinidad and Tobago, Guyana leaders China is firm friend China stands ready to enhance vaccine cooperation with Guyana and Trinidad and Tobago to fight the COVID pandemic, President Xi Jinping said on Tuesday. He also called on the two countries to play an active role in promoting Chinas relations with the Caribbean countries as well as with the entire region. Xi made the remarks in phone conversations with Guyanese President Irfaan Ali and Prime Minister Keith Rowley of Trinidad and Tobago. Speaking with Ali, Xi said that China and Guyana, though geographically far from each other, have achieved fruitful results in cooperation in all fields since the establishment of diplomatic ties. Faced with the impact of the virus, the twoway trade volume between the two countries last year increased against the odds and has great potential, Xi said. Next year marks the th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic ties between China and Guyana. Xi called on both sides to take this opportunity to respect each others core interests and major concerns, push forward the joint building of the Belt and Road and expand mutually beneficial cooperation in areas such as energy and infrastructure. China will continue to provide assistance and support within its capability for Guyanas economic and social development, Xi said. Noting that both China and Guyana are developing countries that share similar positions on many international and regional issues, Xi called on the two sides to strengthen coordination on issues concerning the United Nations and climate change and push forward the fair and reasonable reform of international systems. Ali thanked China for providing generous assistance to help his country fight the virus and appreciated the important leading role played by China on many global issues. When speaking with Rowley, Xi said that China will continue to support Trinidad and Tobago in combating COVID, consolidate traditional cooperation in areas such as energy, telecommunications and infrastructure, and expand cooperation in new areas including new energy and the digital economy. As this year marks the th anniversary of the restoration of the lawful seat of the Peoples Republic of China in the UN, Xi said that China will never forget the precious support from Trinidad and Tobago. Xi said he appreciates Trinidad and Tobagos support for Chinas legitimate position on issues concerning the Xinjiang Uygur autonomous region. China stands ready to strengthen coordination with Trinidad and Tobago on global and multilateral affairs, safeguard the common interests of developing countries and promote building a community with a shared future for mankind, Xi said. Rowley extended congratulations on the th anniversary of the founding of the Communist Party of China. He said that under the leadership of the CPC, the Chinese people have made great achievements in economic growth, science and technology as well as poverty alleviation.