China approves its fourth COVID vaccine for emergency use
2021-03-16 15:05
PhotoInstitute of Microbiology of the Chinese Academy of Sciences    China approved a recombinant protein subunit vaccine against COVID for emergency use on Wednesday, according to the vaccines developer, the Institute of Microbiology of the Chinese Academy of Sciences. So far, the vaccine is the fourth approved by the country for emergency use against COVID. The vaccine was developed by the institute and Anhui Zhifei Longcom Biopharmaceutical. It is currently in phasethree clinical trials in foreign countries including Uzbekistan, Pakistan, Ecuador and Indonesia, with plans to inoculate a total of , volunteers, the institute said in a statement on Monday. On March , Uzbekistans Ministry of Innovative Development said it has approved the vaccine for market use in the Central Asian nation under the name ZFUZVAC. The vaccine was approved for emergency use in the country on Feb , making it the worlds first recombinant subunit vaccine to be authorized for clinical use. Rather than injecting a whole inactivated pathogen to trigger an immune response like previously approved vaccines, subunit protein vaccines contain purified pieces of the viruss protein to train the immune system. These fragments are incapable of causing disease, thus making this type of vaccines very safe. Notable subunit vaccines include the vaccine for hepatitis B. This type of vaccine does not require high biosecurity labs to make, has high output and low storage requirements, the institute said. The vaccine completed phase one and two clinical trials in October, and there were no severe adverse effects recorded, the institute said, adding the protection rate for this vaccine is on par with other COVID recombinant subunit and mRNA vaccines in the world, though it did not disclose efficacy details. US biotech company Novavax is the maker of another recombinant nanoparticle subunit vaccine for COVID called NVXCoV, whose phasethree trials results released last week showed it was . percent effective against mild, moderate and severe disease caused by the original COVID strain. The mRNA vaccines, developed by Pfizer and Moderna, both have a protection rate of around  percent.