Vaccine apartheid undermining global vaccination campaigns
2021-03-16 14:15
Workers offload AstraZenecaOxford vaccines under the COVAX scheme against coronavirus disease COVID at the Aden Abdulle Osman Airport in Mogadishu, Somalia on March , . PhotoAgencies    The rollout of COVID vaccines, with poor countries far behind, has exposed the moral bankruptcy and structural privilege of Western nations,said an opinion piece published on Sunday by South China Morning Post. The article argued that the arrival of COVID vaccines has come as a relief for many in the West, but for billions around the world, that same feeling of relief will not come for months, if not years. Global organizations have warned controlling the pandemic will take years with the current rate of vaccination. The Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development OECD said some poor countries may not be able to start vaccination campaigns until . The opinion said the COVAX Facility, the WHOs initiative to get vaccines to these countries, has only raised only a third of its predicted budget according to some sources. Only  countries have administered  percent of all vaccinations worldwide, while  countries have yet to receive a single dose, according to the UN. G countries have secured enough vaccines for each of their citizens to be vaccinated three times over, thereby undermining the COVAX effort. The vaccine has exposed the moral bankruptcy of rich Western nations, who are poor in action despite being rich in rhetoric, said the opinion. COVID vaccines are the most recent manifestation of how the Wests structural privilege, backed by economic power and relentless desire for dominance, affects todays world and hampers global solutions. And the opinion also said that the way the world talks about nonWestern vaccines shows structural Western privilege and deeprooted racism. Winnie Byanyima, currently of UNAids and formerly of Oxfam, has said we are witness to a vaccine apartheid, where poor countries are unable to purchase vaccines at the same scale and price as rich countries. The socalled vaccine diplomacy saves lives, irrespective of where doses come from. For the needy in poor countries, diplomacy is a whole lot better than apartheid, said the opinion.