China offers vaccine to UN peacekeepers
2021-03-16 09:51
Zhang Jun, Chinas permanent representative to the UN. PhotoXinhua    Chinas Permanent Representative to the UN Zhang Jun informed UN SecretaryGeneral Antnio Guterres on Monday that China will donate , doses of COVID vaccines to United Nations peacekeepers, with priority given to peacekeeping missions in Africa. The Chinese Permanent Mission to the UN said that China is fulfilling its promise to make its vaccines a global public good and contribute to vaccine availability in developing countries. The mission said in a statement that the move is another step toward making Chinas vaccines a global public good. It also demonstrates Chinas firm and continuous support to the UN and multilateralism. As one of the champions of the safety and security issue under the Action for peacekeeping AP initiative of the UN SecretaryGeneral, China attaches great importance to the safety and security of peacekeepers, and supports early COVID vaccination for UN peacekeepers to protect their health and help them better perform their duties, it added. The mission said the Chinese government will work closely with the UN Secretariat to make vaccines donated by China available to the peacekeepers at an early date. The fight against the COVID pandemic is the most pressing task facing the world today, and vaccines are the most powerful weapon to win the battle, the mission said. The mission stressed that China attaches great importance to the equitable distribution of vaccines, especially the accessibility and affordability in developing countries. As of Monday, China had provided vaccine assistance to  countries and two international organizations. It also has exported vaccines to  countries, the mission noted, adding, more and more countries and people are benefiting from Chinas vaccines. China will continue to work in solidarity with countries around the world to make unremitting efforts to win the final victory of the global fight against the pandemic, the mission added. Chinese State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi announced Chinas decision to donate vaccines to peacekeepers during a Security Council meeting on Feb . According to data from the UN, as of Jan , there were , UN peacekeepers comprising military, police and civilians, serving in  peacekeeping operations, six of those in Africa. More than , peacekeepers are deployed to the continent. According to the UN, , Chinese troops and police are currently serving in UN peace operations. Chinas armed forces have sent more than , peacekeepers to  UN peacekeeping missions over the past  years, China said in a white paper it released in September on the participation of the countrys armed forces in UN peacekeeping operations. China also has been a strong supporter of global vaccine distribution, shipping large number of its vaccines to countries such as Mexico, Hungary, Congo, Bahrain and Chile. Mexico turned to China to fill a vaccine shortfall with an order of  million doses. Mexican officials made the decision a week after the Biden administration turned down its request to share the American vaccines with Mexico in the short term. In the Middle East, Bahrain and the United Arab Emirates UAE were among the first countries to approve the Chinese vaccine. The UAE conducted a clinical trial with , participants on Sinopharm and announced that the vaccine was  percent effective in a phasethree trial.