Half of Italy under semilockdown
2021-03-16 09:44
A woman closes a shop in St. Marks Square as the region of Veneto becomes a red zone, going into lockdown in an effort to reduce coronavirus disease COVID infections in the country, in Venice, Italy, March , . PhotoAgencies    ROME  Italy entered into a new period of semilockdown on Monday, with over half of its  regions falling into the red zone and subject to the maximum level of restrictions. In  red regions, all nonessential businesses remain closed, and bars and restaurants operate for takeaway service only, while people are allowed out only for work, health reasons or with proven necessity. Schools are also closed, with eight out of  pupils across the country going back to remote learning. The remaining regions are declared as orange zone and subject to a medium level of restrictions. Here, shops could open, but bars and restaurants would still offer takeaway only. The only exception is Sardinia Island, where there is no restriction on business or internal movements. The new measures, approved in a decree Friday, will remain in force until April , although during Easter holiday between April  and April , people across the country will be asked to stay at home as much as possible, except for one single visit a day to another private home by maximum two adults plus children under  years. Meanwhile, Italy counted . million COVID cases, including infections, fatalities and recoveries. A total of , new cases were registered over the last  hours, according to the Health Ministry. However, active infections dropped by  cases from the Sunday figure, bringing the tally to ,. The death toll reached , after  new deaths, while recoveries added , to . million. According to the latest assessment, Italys COVID reproduction number Rt is now ., i.e. one infectious person would averagely transmit the virus to more than one other person. Although the pandemic trend might still appear moderate, if compared to the first and second waves in , health authorities fretted about the pressure mounting on the public health system. Over the weekend, the number of patients admitted to intensive care exceeded ,, a worrying level considering the systems overall capacity. In a separate development on Monday, the Italian Medicines Agency AIFA suspended the use of the AstraZeneca COVID vaccine in the country. The decision followed the death of a music professor in the northern Piedmont region, and at least another fatality of a soldier in Sicily, after vaccinations. Both cases were being investigated, and no direct causal link has emerged so far. AIFA stated that the suspension was temporary and precautionary pending a decision from the European Medicines Agency EMA and in line with similar steps taken by other European Union EU countries such as Germany, France and Denmark. Meanwhile, the vaccination campaign continued, with . million people given the vaccine up to Monday, including  million with both doses, according to official data. As vaccination campaigns with authorized antiCOVID vaccines are ongoing in many countries around the world,  candidate vaccines are being developed worldwide   of them in clinical trials  including in Germany, Italy, China, Russia, Britain, and the United States, according to the World Health Organization.