Politics seen as blocking cooperation on COVID
2021-10-27 10:55
Staff members register personal information of a resident for nucleic acid testing at a residential compound locked down due to COVID resurgence in Jinfeng District, Yinchuan, Northwest Chinas Ningxia Hui autonomous region, Oct , . PhotoXinhua    The political rift between the US and China is detrimental to the longterm fight against COVID, according to a prominent American scientist. William Haseltine, who is also a businessman and philanthropist, referred to China as our closest knowledge partner when presenting his new work  a longterm plan for COVID management  at the Brookings Institution last week. To me, the tragedy of our tension with China will be in the scientific realm. Its cutting off our hands in the future, Haseltine said. From a public health perspective, China is the standard for success in controlling the pandemic, Haseltine said. From a global containment perspective, the US needs to cooperate with China, and losing it as the closest knowledge partner would be a great loss, he said. As chair and president of the global health think tank ACCESS Health International, Haseltine described how badly the US underestimated the COVID pandemic and has underestimated this virus and its ability to maneuver the public health battleground, letting the pandemic evade the defenses of public health measures, then drugs and treatments, and find new avenues of attack. Now with the fifth wave, we hold out hope for a vaccine, while youre vaccinated so youre not going to die is still one of the notnecessarily correct assumptions. In Haseltines view, it is misguided to formulate policy on that assumption, and in general, weve underestimated what this pandemic is and translate that into policy. Haseltine also was a professor at Harvard Medical School, where he founded two research departments on cancer and HIVAIDS. He also founded several biotechnology companies and was a founding chairman and CEO of Human Genome Sciences, which pioneered the application of genomics to drug discovery. Before bilateral relations drifted into the doldrums, there were frequent exchanges between China and the US on public health Haseltine was involved in many of them. He recalled that the Chinese side sent its top people to the US every summer for workshops for  years, and Haseltines team went to their central party school to participate in the writing of the book on how to control the pandemic. The Chinese government followed to the letter how to deal with COVID, Haseltine said. I would say the Chinese central government realized what was going on well, and they just executed what the plan was. I cant tell you how it breaks my heart to realize the plan we the US wrote works, but we dont use it, said Haseltine. Haseltine noted that the plan is not complicated Find out whos infected contact and trace everybody who was infected and treat them, whether they are infected or not, as if they are infected, because they might be  which means isolate them from everybody else, which means isolate the whole city for two weeks, which means accessing  million people in five days. Haseltine expressed regret that the US has the capacity to do it but we didnt do it, and we wont do it, and thats the problem. I see a government that followed the rule book, and I see people who are willing to sacrifice their temporary inconvenience because other people will do that for them, Haseltine said in expressing appreciation for Chinas performance in the pandemic. The outcome is that China is virtually COVIDfree now. Yes, COVID keeps coming in, so first, they are shutting down Ningbo, then Shenzhen and then Harbin, and then Nanjing, but theyre keeping it low, and people are not dying. So, whats going to happen to us is were going to continue to suffer from repeated bouts of COVID. Haseltine mentioned the examples of Australia, New Zealand and Singapore to support his view they used the Chinastyle pandemiccontrol strategy and got the staged success then they relaxed the measures and COVID rebounded quickly. He also emphasized that more than , people died from COVID in the US, while Chinas death rate is close to zero. Although it has seen a downward trend in recent weeks, the US has been reporting more than , new coronavirus cases per day since the end of July. At a webinar held by the Center for Strategy and International Study CSIS, Peter Sands, executive director of the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria, said, ultimately China is too much of the worlds population, too much of the world pharmaceutical manufacturing capacities, scientific expertise and so on to be excluded from discussions led by the US on overcoming COVID. If the world is going to be a safer place against future pathogens, China has to be part of that, Sands added. Loyce Pace, director of the Office of Global Affairs, Department of Health and Human Services, revealed that collaboration and communication actually continues with China, particularly at a technical level, even while relations are turbulent. So, in addition to CDC being on the ground in China, FDA is there I have a staff person  they are helping during the tension with Beijing. So those are important to highlight because we havent given up on health and the opportunities to work with China, in particular on these critically important health priorities, including pandemic preparedness and response, said Loyce. Haseltine identified relations with China as a broader issue, suggesting the creation of an entirely more friendly environment and calling our tensions with China a tragedy. Seeing China as the closest knowledge partner  my students and my fellow students are them they are us, and theyre taking their science to new heights as we are.