Developers seek to bypass needle for inoculations
2021-03-15 10:11
A bottle of the PfizerBioNTech COVID vaccine is pictured at the historic Greater Bethel Missionary Baptist Church in Tampa, Florida, US on Feb , . PhotoAgencies    Biotechnology companies are seeking to take the ouch out of inoculations with painless alternatives to the hypodermic needle to administer mass coronavirus vaccines and future inoculations. Several vaccinedelivery developers in the United States and the United Kingdom are working on technology that would allow a nurse or doctor to give a vaccine via the skin, nose or stomach, bypassing the hypodermic needle. The developing technologies include a vaccineimbued tube of sugars implanted under the skin, a lozenge that dissolves under the tongue and a patch that has tiny needles in it that can release the vaccine. Codagenix, a clinicalstage synthetic biology company in Farmingdale, New York state, has developed a vaccine called Covivac that would be taken up the nose as drops. The vaccine, which needs only a single dose, is undergoing a phase  clinical trial in the UK, and a global phase  trial is planned for the summer. A representative of Codagenix said As a live attenuated vaccine, a weakened, safe and stable form of the virus that was developed synthetically to produce immunity against all SARSCoV proteins, Covivac has the potential to provide a more robust immune response and longer lasting cellular immunity in comparison to other COVID vaccines that target only a portion of the virus. Codagenix said its vaccine could prove critical against new variants of SARSCoV. The company said it would have the added benefit of being able to be stored in a standard freezer or potentially a refrigerator.  Pfizer and BioNTechs vaccine, the first authorized for use in the US, initially had to be stored at extremely low temperatures of between minus  C and minus  C. Last month the company told the Food and Drug Administration that tests had shown it could now be stored safely at minus  C. Through the skin Another innovation comes from Michael Schrader, chief executive of Vaxess Technologies in Cambridge, Massachusetts. His company is developing a patch with microscopic needles that could deliver a vaccine through the skin, painlessly. About  percent of US citizens had been fully vaccinated by March , the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said. More than  million shots a day are being administered in the country. Following coronavirus cases and deaths among nursing home residents plummeting in recent weeks, the US said that nursing home residents vaccinated against COVID can again see their loved ones. The policy guidance was announced by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services on Wednesday. The guidance says that nursing homes should allow indoor visitation at all times and for all residents, regardless of vaccination status. Ai Heping in New York contributed to this story.