Tunisia starts COVID vaccination Jordan receives st shipment of AstraZeneca vaccine
2021-03-14 07:16
A woman receives a vaccine against the coronavirus disease COVID in Tunis, Tunisia on March , . PhotoAgencies    CAIRO  Tunisia on Saturday kicked off its national vaccination campaign against COVID across the country. Meanwhile, Jordan announced the arrival of the first shipment of AstraZeneca vaccine. People not registered on the vaccination platform, Evax, will not be accepted, Tunisias Minister of Health Faouzi Mehdi said, adding that the number of registered people on this platform is around ,. The objective of the campaign in Tunisia is to vaccinate  percent of the population, according to a ministry statement. Jordan on Saturday said it has received , doses of the AstraZenecaSK Bioscience COVID vaccine from COVAX, an international vaccine campaign coled by the World Health Organization and its partners. The second shipment of COVID vaccines from the COVAX is expected to arrive in Jordan in April, according to the Health Ministry. Meanwhile, Jordan on Saturday reported  COVID deaths and , confirmed cases, increasing the death toll to , and the tally to ,. Turkey on Saturday reported , new COVID infections, including  symptomatic patients, as the total number of positive cases in the country reached ,,, according to its health ministry. The death toll from the virus in Turkey rose by  to ,, while the total recoveries climbed to ,, after , more cases recovered in the last  hours. In Iran, , new cases of infection with COVID were identified over the past  hours,  of whom were hospitalized, Irans Health Ministry spokeswoman Sima Sadat Lari said at her daily briefing. And  more Iranians have died from the disease, bringing the death toll to ,, while ,, patients out of a total of ,, confirmed cases have recovered or been discharged from hospitals. The Iraqi Ministry of Health reported on Saturday , new coronavirus cases, bringing the total number of nationwide infections to ,. It also reported  new deaths, raising the death toll from the infectious virus to ,, while the total recoveries in Iraq climbed by , to ,. Lebanon registered , new COVID cases, raising the total number of infections to ,, the Health Ministry reported. Meanwhile, the number of deaths from the virus went up by  to ,. The Kuwaiti Health Ministry reported , new COVID cases, bringing the total number of confirmed cases in the country to ,. The ministry also announced nine more deaths, taking the death toll to ,, while the tally of recoveries rose by , to ,. A total of , coronavirus patients are receiving treatment. In Morocco,  new COVID cases were registered on Saturday, taking the total tally in the North African country to ,, the health ministry said in a statement. The total number of recoveries from COVID in Morocco increased to , after  new ones were added. The death toll rose to , with two new fatalities during the last  hours, while  people are in intensive care units. Algeria Saturday reported  new COVID cases, raising the total number of confirmed cases in the North African country to ,. The death toll from the virus rose to , after three new fatalities were added, said the Algerian Ministry of Health in a statement. Meanwhile,  more patients recovered from the disease, bringing the total number of recoveries in the country to ,, the statement added. Palestine on Saturday recorded , new COVID cases,  more deaths, and , recoveries in the last  hours in the West Bank, the Gaza Strip and East Jerusalem, according to the Health Ministry. Currently,  COVID patients are getting treatment in intensive care units of Palestinian hospitals, the ministry said. Also on Saturday, Palestine announced a decision to extend the full lockdown on the West Bank for five more days, starting on March , amid increasing daily COVID cases and deaths. Over , people who arrived in Oman have taken institutional isolation as a precautionary measure. Among the quarantined people in Oman, around  percent are expatriates. The number of hotels as the facilities of institutional quarantine reached .