Tokyo  pregames antidoping program to be most extensive ever
2021-03-13 10:23
The Olympic rings are pictured in front of the International Olympic Committee IOC during the coronavirus disease outbreak in Lausanne, Switzerland, March , . PhotoAgencies    PARIS  The World AntiDoping Agency WADA and the International Testing Agency ITA confirmed in their reports to the th IOC Session that a robust and efficient preGames antidoping program that will allow athletes to compete in a fair and safe environment in Tokyo is being carried out. The Session, which was held by video conference, concluded on Friday as both WADA and the ITA committed that they are working closely with the IOC and the Tokyo  Organizing Committee to ensure clean sport and the integrity of the Olympic Games this summer. The report from the ITA revealed that the testing assessment period started one year before the Games, taking into account a much wider pool of athletes likely to qualify. Testing recommendations made by the ITA PreGames Expert Group aim to close testing gaps ahead of the Games. These recommendations, which amount to more than ,, have therefore been issued much earlier six months ahead of the Games for Tokyo  compared to one month for Rio , and cover more sports all  sports and disciplines for Tokyo compared to seven sports for Rio. As a result of the recommendations, , tests on individual athletes and  tests on team sports athletes have already been completed by the International Federations IFs and NationalRegional AntiDoping Organisations concerned, and more than , controls are planned in the coming weeks. The ITA has also implemented a global longterm storage program to store preGames samples in a centralized and secured facility in order to deter athletes from using prohibited substances and allow the reanalysis of samples for up to  years. WADAs President, Witold Banka, told the IOC Session that the establishment of the longterm sample storage facility and program also had WADAs full support. In addition to providing assistance for the antidoping program that will be coordinated by the ITA during the Games, WADA is also ensuring that the accredited laboratory in Tokyo will be ready for the challenge that awaits. Banka stressed that, despite the global impact of the COVID pandemic on the antidoping system, WADA has kept full oversight of testing activities and put in place relevant guidelines to assist the antidoping community in these difficult times. With a primary focus on the health of athletes, WADA is strongly recommending vaccines against COVID. The Agency has indicated that vaccines are not known to contain any substance or method on the Prohibited List or to interfere with antidoping analysis. It will continue to closely monitor the situation and provide timely guidance on this matter.