UK patients waiting times hit record high in January amid COVID pandemic peak
2021-03-12 10:05
People walk past a mural praising the NHS National Health Service amidst the continuation of the coronavirus disease COVID pandemic, London, Britain, March , .PhotoAgencies    LONDON  The number of people waiting for medical treatment in England reached a record high in January during the countrys second COVID peak, official figures showed Thursday. Figures from National Health Service NHS England showed that . million people were waiting to start treatment at the end of January, the highest number since records began in August . The number of patients waiting more than  weeks to start hospital treatment stood at , in the same month, the highest number for any calendar month since January , the data showed. With lockdown in force and many hospitals dealing with record numbers of COVID patients, January also saw a  percent drop in people admitted for routine treatment. Despite battling the January peak, when more than , people needed COVID hospital treatment, NHS England said staff still managed to care for . million people without the virus. Thats a significant rise on the , treated during the peak of the first wave in April . Admitting more than , COVID patients to hospital in a single month inevitably had a knockon effect on some nonurgent care, Stephen Powis, the national medical director for NHS England, told The Guardian newspaper. However, thanks to the hard work of NHS staff and the innovations in treatment and care developed over the course of the pandemic, hospitals treated more than  million people with other conditions in January, at the peak of the winter wave, nearly twice as many as they did last April, he said. That is a testament to the skill, dedication and commitment nurses, doctors, therapists and countless other staff showed in the most challenging period in NHS history, he added. More than  million people in Britain have been given the first jab of the coronavirus vaccine, according to the latest official figures. British Health Secretary Matt Hancock has confirmed that the government is on course to offering a first vaccine dose to all adults by the end of July. To bring life back to normal, countries such as Britain, China, Germany, Russia and the United States have been racing against time to roll out coronavirus vaccines.