Africans slam rich nations for blocking access to generic COVID vaccines
2021-03-12 05:29
PhotoAgencies    NAIROBI  Charities in Africa slammed rich nations on Thursday for blocking efforts to waive patents for COVID vaccines, saying this would prolong the pandemic for years in poorer nations and push millions across the continent deeper into poverty. More than  charities, including Amnesty International and Christian Aid, said Wednesdays move by Western nations to prevent generic or other manufacturers making more vaccines in poorer nations was an affront on peoples right to healthcare. Peter Kamalingin, Oxfam Internationals Africa director, said subSaharan Africa   of the global population  had received only . of  million vaccine doses administered worldwide. Ensuring every African can get a safe and effective COVID vaccine ... is the most effective way to save lives and livelihoods, keep our children in school, reduce unemployment rates and reopen our economies, he told a news conference. Without it, gains made by African countries on issues of food security, democratic governance, gender justice and womens rights will be reversed completely. Richer members of the World Trade Organization WTO blocked a push by some  developing countries  led by India and South Africa  to waive its TradeRelated Aspects of Intellectual Property TRIPS agreement rules on patents. The move sent a message that African lives were less important than those of people in rich nations, Kamalingin said. Countries such as the United States and Britain argue that protecting intellectual property rights encourages research and innovation, and that suspending those rights would not result in a sudden surge of vaccine supply. Africas confirmed coronavirus caseload is almost  million, with more than , deaths, according to the Africa Centres for Disease Control and Prevention. While Africa accounts for less than  of the  million cases and . million deaths recorded globally, health experts say a lack of testing and reliable data from many African nations means the true figures may be far higher. The World Bank estimates that the new coronavirus crisis has already pushed  million people in subSaharan economies into extreme poverty, that is, living on less than . a day. Africa needs equitable access to vaccines to prevent further lockdowns, job losses and school closures, said the charities, which included the PanAfrican Fight Inequality Alliance and the East Africa Tax and Governance Network. Without the vaccine, the pandemic will be prolonged on the continent. Africa will be in a pandemic state for the next four or five years, warned Mwanahamisi Singano, programme manager from the African Womens Development and Communication Network. If we dont have the vaccine, we are extending the pandemic phase and all the evil that we have seen come with it. Western nations have celebrated the COVAX facility  a World Health Organization WHO vaccinesharing programme to aid developing nations  which has so far delivered approximately  million doses to a handful of African countries. But the charities said COVAX was far from an acceptable solution as it would only result in  of the population in those countries being vaccinated by the end of the year. Reuters