Chinese shots turn tide in Middle East
2021-03-11 10:29
A booth displaying a coronavirus vaccine candidate from China National Pharmaceutical Group Sinopharm, is seen at the  China International Fair for Trade in Services CIFTIS, following the COVID outbreak, in Beijing, in this September ,  file photo. PhotoAgencies    Shipments of vital jabs across region fuel optimism for return to normalcy Chinas COVID vaccines have come a long way in the Middle East. They were the first of the global offerings to secure authorization for emergency use there and one of them led a poll as the vaccine of choice in the region. To top that off, they have scored high on efficacy ratings. An online survey by data analytics firm YouGov has indicated that over  percent of those vaccinated against the coronavirus in the United Arab Emirates had opted for a Chinesedeveloped vaccine from Sinopharm. In the survey commissioned by G Healthcare, a subsidiary of Abu Dhabibased technology company Group ,  percent of the respondents said they believe the COVID vaccines will bring life back to normal within a year. The UAE approved the Sinopharm shots on Dec , after declaring an  percent efficacy rate for the jabs. The YouGovG survey, which started in January, was carried out to determine peoples attitudes to COVID vaccines. It found that safety and efficacy were the main factors that influenced their decisions. A total of , people were polled in the UAE for the survey, with the participants expressing optimism that the vaccines will help turn the tide in the public health crisis. The Abu Dhabibased English daily The National reported on Tuesday that some people in the UAE who did not develop antibodies against COVID could take a booster shot or a third dose of the Sinopharm vaccine, which is available for free across the country. High efficacy proved Chinese vaccines could find even more takers in the region in the coming months after Turkish researchers announced last week that a COVID vaccine developed by Chinas Sinovac Biotech had an efficacy of . percent, based on phase III trials. The results unveiled by Ankaras Hacettepe University came after trials involving , participants aged . The UAE vaccine survey revealed that safety remained the top determinant for people considering vaccination, with  percent of respondents citing safety and efficacy as the key motivators. This was followed by perceptions of a lack of major side effects, at  percent, on a list of factors. Arab League Assistant SecretaryGeneral Hossam Zaki, who received a batch of Sinopharms COVID vaccines in Cairo last week, said Chinas medical assistance to the PanArab body will effectively enhance the antiepidemic capabilities of the Arab world, the Xinhua News Agency reported. Michael Stanat, vicepresident of global operations at SIS International Research, a consulting firm headquartered in New York, said Chinese vaccines position China as a global healthcare leader and innovator alongside the likes of the US and Europe. For Martin Lush, global vicepresident at NSF International, a USbased public health and safety organization, said the global elimination of the virus will not happen and that we must learn to live with it, just like we do with flu. As of Monday, the UAE had administered ,, doses of COVID vaccines, with a distribution rate of . doses per  people. The UAEs National Emergency Crisis and Disaster Management Authority noted on Feb  that authorities had noticed a gradual decrease in registered COVID cases. We confirm the effectiveness and safety of the vaccines that were approved in the country, it said.