Africa can learn from Chinas success formula
2021-03-11 09:35
The closing meeting of the fourth session of the th National Committee of the Chinese Peoples Political Consultative Conference CPPCC is held at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing, capital of China, March , .PhotoXinhua    The annual two sessions political event in Beijing is a true representative of Chinas visible hand, which has led a civilization of . billion people to achieve its poverty alleviation targets, guided by the nations unique socialism with Chinese characteristics and the goal of achieving a xiaokang, or moderately prosperous, society. Contextualizing Chinas achievement, the country has lifted nearly  million people out of absolute poverty since , and more than  million people over the past  years since Chinas reform and openingup began. The question is, what is Chinas secret formula that it used to gain such an achievement over a short period? And what lessons should Africa learn from this success? And how can China help the African continent shed its tag of a dark continent to one that reflects a rising continent? Chinas st century triumph is rooted in its past experience of facing extreme poverty and conflict, resulting in its desire to attain success through the notion of peaceful development. Also a factor is the resilience and determination of the Chinese people spread around the world, who strive to achieve success each day through the various projects they are undertaking, which has resulted in deepening of exchanges and mutual learning among civilizations. As described in a New China Research think tank report this year, Chinas secret formula is best described by theDs determined leadership, development orientation, detailed blueprint, decentralized delivery and databased governance. Here, the Communist Party of China has managed to harmoniously collaborate with eight other participating political parties in China. As a result of this advanced political maturity, the CPC has guided China to achieve economic development, deepen its reforms and improve the living standards of its people through poverty alleviation programs. This could only be achieved through having a determined leadership that is well represented in the two sessions. Chinas shortterm and longterm goals have steered the country on a progressive path. Frequent monitoring and evaluation of policies has helped China to know what is working or not, and to invent and adopt what works best for the people. From this, the African Union needs to learn the importance of constant consultations with its member states on various policies it has put in place to drive the continents growth and development. For instance, the two sessions will set the stage for Chinas th FiveYear Plan . Breaking down the countrys blueprint for the next five years will help the entire civilization own the vision and mission of its leaders. The previous sessions have managed to help the Chinese people visualize the importance of various global public goods that China is offering, such as the Forum on ChinaAfrica Cooperation and the Belt and Road Initiative. Both the BRI and FOCAC have tremendously catapulted Africas development and growth, making the continent experience a new dawn as the rising continent.