Dont let ideological bias hurt equitable access to vaccines China Daily editorial
2021-03-10 19:21
A staff member shows CoronaVac vaccine vials at Sinovac Life Sciences in Beijing. Photo by Chen Xiaogenfor China Daily    Whatever Western media or politicians may say to the contrary, what China has done in its provision of COVID vaccines for as many countries as possible delivers on its promise to make them a global public good. China has demonstrated that it meant what it said by providing as many doses of vaccines as possible to the developing world and the COVAX equitable access initiative under the auspices of the World Health Organization. And it is China that has repeatedly called for the fair distribution of vaccines for global solidarity against the COVID pandemic. As Chinese State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi said on Tuesday in a telephone conversation with Polish Foreign Minister Zbigniew Rau, the countrys only purpose in this regard is to help the world defeat the novel coronavirus and work together to build a global community of health for all. That is why China is providing vaccines for  developing countries that are in urgent need of them and why it has exported vaccines to another  countries. At the same time, the country is donating vaccines to United Nations peacekeepers and has already committed to providing  million doses for COVAX. The country has also said it is ready to work with the International Olympic Committee to provide vaccines for athletes taking part in the Olympics. It is disappointing to say the least that what China has done and is doing is being labeled as vaccine diplomacy or for geopolitical purposes. It is certain that without such efforts, the developing countries would have to look on until the developed countries allowed them to enjoy some crumbs while they feasted to their fill on vaccines. Those who have political bias against China will always look at what China does through a prism of ideology. As a result, everything is politicized. Some are even trying to cast doubt on the quality of the vaccines China has developed and manufactured. When they are too narrowminded to look beyond their deeprooted bias, it is natural for them to turn a blind eye to what China has done to support and promote global solidarity in the fight against the pandemic. As Wang said on Sunday during a news conference on the sidelines of the annual session of the National Peoples Congress Whether it is a Chinese vaccine or not, it is good vaccine as long as it is safe and effective. China supports all good vaccines and hopes that the developed countries will extend a helping hand to developing countries in need of vaccines, as this will aid the global endeavor to contain the spread of the novel coronavirus as early as possible. Whatever Western media or politicians say, China will continue with its provision of vaccines because it knows it is doing the right thing. It only hopes that the developed countries will join it rather than creating a vaccine divide.