Fiji starts COVID vaccination campaign for frontline workers
2021-03-10 15:07
A woman holds a small bottle labelled with a Coronavirus COVID Vaccine sticker in this illustration taken, October , . PhotoAgencies    SUVA  The South Pacific island nation of Fiji started on Wednesday the COVID vaccination campaign, aiming to fully vaccinate , frontline workers including health care workers, members of the disciplined forces and border control workers who operate the COVID border control and quarantine services. According to a statement by Fijis Health Ministry, the first batch of , OxfordAstraZeneca COVID vaccines, procured through the COVAX facility, will provide two doses each of vaccination for the target group. Additional vaccines sent through COVAX will arrive in staggered shipments in the weeks to come. We are very fortunate to receive the initial supply of the vaccines towards our collective effort to stop COVID in Fiji and this will boost confidence among our neighbors on the safety of our shore as a tourist destination going forward, and I am very grateful to our donor partners for their tireless effort in assisting the Ministry, Fijis Health Minister Ifereimi Waqainabete said. As the vaccination campaign started on Wednesday, the Health Ministry urges Fijians to continue to apply preadvised measures to successfully prevent and control transmission. This includes physical distancing where possible, managing proper ventilation, and maintaining good hand hygiene, alongside robust programmes to test, trace, isolate and treat to keep communities safe. On Wednesday, the first doses of the OxfordAstraZeneca vaccine were administered to  frontline workers at the Nadi International Airport, about  km west of the capital city Suva. The second jab will be given within eight to  weeks after the first jab. According to the minister, Fiji, an island nation with a population of around ,, is targeting to get . million doses of the COVID vaccine. Fiji has  COVID cases in total, with seven active cases,  recoveries and two deaths since its first case was reported on March  last year. The island nation still maintains a strict travel restriction to date for foreign visitors alongside a nationwide curfew effective from March  last year.