Party politics regains upper hand in US
2021-03-10 10:57
Sen. Joe Manchin DWV, Sen. Bill Cassidy RLA and Rep. Fred Upton RMI stand alongside a bipartisan group of Democrat and Republican members of Congress as they announce a proposal for a Covid relief bill on Capitol Hill on December ,  in Washington, DC. PhotoAgencies    The pretense of bipartisanship in Washington gave way to party politics during the path to passage of the latest coronavirus relief funding package.  No Republicans in either the US House of Representatives or the Senate voted for the new bill, which brings total virus relief spending in the United States to more than  trillion. A headline in The New York Times after the vote proclaimed, After stimulus victory in Senate, reality sinks in Bipartisanship is dead. The . trillion American Rescue Plan was passed by the Senate on Saturday and sent back to the House after Senate amendments. The House is expected to vote to approve the measure this week before sending it to President Joe Biden for his signature. Most Democrats praised the bill, while Republicans said it contained too much specialinterest funding. The American Rescue Plan will go down as one of the most sweeping federal recovery efforts in history, Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer, a New York Democrat, said before the vote. Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell called the bill a parade of leftwing pet projects that they are ramming through during a pandemic. John Thune, the No  Republican in the Senate, said It is really unfortunate that at a time when a president who came into office suggesting that he wanted to work with Republicans and create solutions in a bipartisan way and try to bring the country together and unify, the first thing out of the gate is a piece of legislation that simply is done with oneparty rule. Democratic Representative John Sarbanes said, Looking at the behavior of the Republican Party here in Washington, its fair to conclude that it is going to be very difficult, particularly the way leadership has positioned itself, to get meaningful cooperation from that side of the aisle. The bills highlights include , stimulus checks for individuals making , a year or less. There will be a reduced, scaled payment for those with adjusted gross income up to a maximum of ,. For heads of households, the income level is , or less, and for married couples filing jointly, , or less. In order to win support from moderate Democrats in a Senate that is split , Democrats removed a provision that would have mandated a national  minimum hourly wage and agreed to reduce monthly enhanced unemployment benefits from  to , through Sept . The  would be on top of what filers receive through their state unemployment insurance programs. The changes angered Democratic Party progressives, particularly on the minimumwage measure, so help from House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Biden will likely be needed to usher through the bill before March , when federal unemployment benefits are due to expire. Any person who thinks that a  minimum wage is a crazy socialist agenda is living in a dystopian capitalist nightmare, Congresswoman Alexandria OcasioCortez of New York said Sunday on MSNBC. White House press secretary Jen Psaki praised the bill on Monday at her daily media briefing. Senator Joe Manchin and Senator Bernie Sanders and a range of Democrats in between just voted to support a . trillion package that is the most progressive piece of legislation in history, Psaki said. The legislation would provide  billion to state and local governments and nearly  billion for schools, among other earmarks. Some of the money allocated to the state and local governments has been criticized by Republicans as blue state Democratcontrolled bailouts. McConnell argued that only  percent of the latest spending measure is dedicated to coronavirus treatment and  percent to vaccines. The bill provides  billion to expand federal, state and local testing for COVID and to enhance contracttracing capabilities with new investments to expand laboratory capacity and set up mobile testing units. Also in the bill is  billion to bail out more than  underfunded union pensions. The legislation would not require that the funds be paid back to the government. A slew of amendments proposed by Republican senators were mostly defeated by Democrats, including one by Republican Senator Ted Cruz that would have blocked stimulus checks from going to undocumented immigrants. The Associated Press contributed to this story. williamhennellychinadailyusa.com