Success of China is a beacon for others
2021-03-09 08:57
An employee works at a production line of new energy vehicles in Liuzhou, south Chinas Guangxi Zhuang autonomous region, March , . Liuzhou is a famous automobile industrial base. In recent years, local new energy automobile industry has seen vigorous development. PhotoXinhua    In a world still struggling with economic slowdown and a lingering pandemic, Chinas reigniting economic growth and its commitment to greater openness and international cooperation are positive catalysts for global recovery. China has become an anchor of stability and a voice of reason in a world vexed with uncertainties and rambunctious discord. In line with its track record in recent years, China continues its sweeping reforms, socioeconomic modernization, technological innovations and multilateralism during its annual two sessionsthe meetings of the National Peoples Congress, its top legislature, and the National Committee of the Chinese Peoples Political Consultative Conference, the countrys top political advisory body. Chinas stunning economic revival gives hope and inspiration and can energize other economies in Asia and worldwide, as the worlds secondlargest economy, steadfast champion of free trade amidst some protectionist threats, and the biggest consumer market, with . billion people. President Xi Jinping said in November that China could possibly double its gross domestic product and per capita income by . After successfully completing its th FiveYear Plan  last year, China is scheduled to release the th FiveYear Plan  and longrange objectives through the year  at the two sessions. These plans focus on Chinas goals of longterm, green economic growth with sustainability. Some analysts have predicted that China will surpass the United States as the worlds biggest economy by . Helen Qiao, Bank of America Global Research head of Asia economics, was quoted on Feb  by CNBC as predicting that China could economically overtake the US as early as  or . Some observers said this may be hard to achieve, but Qiao said undertaking continuing reforms would help China to attain this milestone. Chinas bold reforms, openness and economic dynamism have a tremendous positive impact on current sluggish world trade, economic growth and investments. However, another of Chinas achievements has meaningful and farreaching consequences for human progressthe nations decisive, historic victory over absolute poverty. Although it has suffered from the effects of the pandemic, China has nevertheless fulfilled its promise to support the global antiCOVID campaign by sharing generous donations and also making available through exports its lifesaving medical supplies and vaccines. Moreover, China still valiantly fulfilled its promise to end absolute poverty. Last year, all of the countrys nearly  million impoverished rural residents had been liberated from absolute poverty after only eight years. This meant China was a decade early in achieving the United Nations poverty reduction goal. On Oct , , former World Bank president Jim Yong Kim said Chinas lifting of more than  million people out of poverty since the start of its economic reform is a great story in human history. He underscored that there are lessons to be learned from China. Most of the progress thats been made in going from  percent of the world living in extreme poverty to now less than  percent most of that progress happened in China, Kim said. It can be deduced that the ultimate measure of Chinas economic success is not the size of its rising economy, not its military prowess, not its benevolent global soft power influence, but its prodigious ability to efficiently govern a vast, diverse country and uplift the quality of life for . billion people. By these benchmarks, the visionary leaders and noble people of China are succeeding and also inspiring the world. The author is an analyst and columnist at the Philippine Star.