Diplomat View development in objective way
2021-03-09 07:41
Kong Quan.    China, US should focus on cooperation while respecting differences, Kong says A veteran diplomat said that China has no intention of competing with other countries and seeking hegemony, and he called on the United States to view Chinas development objectively. Kong Quan, deputy head of the Foreign Affairs Committee of the National Committee of the Chinese Peoples Political Consultative Conference, said what China expects is a peaceful and stable external environment so that it can be better committed to its own development and at the same time bring development opportunities to other countries. China and the US should focus on cooperation to seek common development while respecting their differences, Kong said, noting that it is these differences that create the chances for cooperation. Kong previously served as a Foreign Ministry spokesman and Chinas ambassador to France. He said that the two countries can engage in cooperation in areas of COVID prevention, economic growth and climate change, which are also the top priorities faced by US President Joe Biden. International cooperation is essential for addressing these challenges facing all mankind and China apparently enjoys an advantageous position in the global arena on these areas, Kong said. For example, there is a lot that the two countries can do in sharing their good practices in COVID prevention and vaccine research, he said. The senior diplomat pointed out that while China is sincere about cooperation with the US, Washingtons willful damage to Beijings interests, such as its suppression of Chinese companies under the pretext of socalled national security, will not be allowed. Over the past four years, the previous US presidential administration adopted some extremely wrong and ridiculous measures in dealing with its relations with China, which have been responded to with necessary measures by the Chinese side. China will firmly safeguard its sovereignty, security and development interests, Kong said. Faced with certain Western countries attempts to interfere in Chinas internal affairs on issues that relate to the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region, Taiwan and the Xinjiang Uygur and Tibet autonomous regions, China will only react with more powerful measures, he added. Kong also dismissed the doubts raised by some Western media and politicians on Chinas efforts to offer vaccines to other countries. Facts speak louder than words, he said, adding that in fact many more people are expressing their admiration for Chinas effective efforts to contain the virus and their appreciation for vaccines provided by China. China has provided and is providing COVID vaccine aid free of charge to  developing countries in urgent need, while also exporting vaccines to  countries, State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi said at a news conference on Sunday. Except for the deliberate slandering of China by some antiChina forces, Kong said that some people, especially in Western countries, will guard against or even fear China because they lack understanding of the fastchanging country. Stories of China In the future, more efforts should be made to enable the world to know in various ways that China is committed to a peaceful development path and is dedicated to improving peoples livelihoods, he said. As this year marks the th anniversary of the founding of the Communist Party of China, telling the stories of Chinas development process will help more foreign countries to better understand the choice of the Chinese people, that is, a socialist country led by the CPC, Kong added.