In Games together for a shared future
2021-10-27 07:30
JIN DINGCHINA DAILY    The day countdown to the  Winter Olympic Games has begun. And while the clock of preparation ticks, the Olympic flame, ignited for the Beijing  Winter Games in Ancient Olympia in Greece, has arrived in the Chinese capital. The welcoming ceremony for the Olympic torch was held on Oct  at the Olympic Tower, an iconic landmark of the  Beijing Summer Games, where Cai Qi, secretary of the Communist Party of China Beijing municipal committee and president of the Beijing  Organizing Committee, took over the flame and lit the cauldron. The ceremony acquired added importance because Beijing is the first city to host both the Summer and Winter Olympic Games. The Beijing Winter Games, to be held six months after Tokyo  Summer Olympics that was deferred for more than a year due to the pandemic, will strengthen the international communitys determination to combat the global health crisis, and carry forward the Olympic spirit. China has taken many measures since the s to promote winter sports including the Ice and Snow Sports Development Program  and associated infrastructure investment, supported by plans to boost the nascent winter sports industry including the national fitness plan , and the ice and snow facilities  and ice and snow tourism  programs. The targets are ambitious, though increasing peoples participation in winter sports to  million and raising the winter sports industry value to about  billion. The goals also include improving the wellbeing and health of the people, by encouraging more people to play sports, and bettering the transportation system and the environment. The results of these measures have been encouragingfor example, a decade ago, there were only about  ski resorts in China, but by the end of , the number had increased to . Besides, the governments winter sports development road map, which includes developing more skating rinks and ski resorts, has laid the foundation for a winter sports industrys boom. And as a result of China deepening cooperation with several leading winter sports countries, some European countries have hosted Chinese athletes for training, and foreign coaches are working to boost the performance of the Chinese winter sports team. Despite the uncertainties of the COVID pandemic, the construction of the ice and snow sports venues, including ski jumping, freestyle skiing and crosscountry skiing sites, is on track, as is the building of the Olympic Village in Zhangjiakou, Hebei province, and the BeijingZhangjiakou intercity railway. Competitions and training programs for domestic and overseas athletes will be held to test the suitability and safety of some of the sites, as well as to check the other arrangements. The growth of ice and snow sports and the winter sports industry in China should be welcome news for stakeholders across the world, including athletes and winter sports powerhouses, because they can use the scores of new venues China has developed for winter sports in preparation for the Winter Games. But keeping in mind the pandemic situation across the world and to prevent the spread of the novel coronavirus, China has decided to restrict the sale of tickets for the Winter Games to only fully vaccinated Chinese mainland residents. Beijing successfully bid to host the  Winter Olympics more than six years ago and immediately started preparing for it. And in spite of the many adjustments in the preparations they have had to make due to pandemic, the organizers have ensured that the venues are ready and all arrangements in place for the Games, drawing praise from the International Olympic Committees Coordination Commission. The Olympic spirit symbolizes human resilience, and the international communitys determination to contain the novel coronavirus. And along with the Olympic spirit, the Beijing  Games motto, Together for a Shared Future, is a call to people to march together under the Olympic flag, and convey the common aspiration of all the countries to build a better future. Hopefully, the organizers, and athletes and other participants will spare no efforts to uphold the Olympic spirit, create a safe atmosphere for everyone at the Winter Games, and make it a grand success. The author is an expert in Olympic Studies. The views dont necessarily reflect those of China Daily. If you have a specific expertise, or would like to share your thought about our stories, then send us your writings at opinionchinadaily.com.cn, and commentchinadaily.com.cn.