US infrastructure needs  trillion in fixes, say engineers
2021-03-08 10:48
A volunteer directs traffic during a mass vaccination event for Johnson  Johnsons coronavirus disease COVID vaccine at New Hampshire Motor Speedway in Loudon, New Hampshire, US on March , . PhotoAgencies    The United States infrastructure has been given an overall Cminus grade in  by the American Society of Engineers, the first time the nations infrastructure is out of the D range in  years. The Reston, Virginiabased organization analyzes  individual categories ranging from bridges, roadways, public transit, parks and ports, and releases a grade every four years. Grades this year range from a B, good, in rail to a Dminus, poor, with condition and capacity at strong risk of failure, in transit. The C grade range represents a mediocre rating. Grades in five categories  aviation, drinking water, energy, inland waterways and ports  improved. Just one category, bridges, declined. Transit scored the lowest, with an unchanged grade of Dminus. The ASCE analysis released on March  estimates that the total infrastructure investment gap has swelled to . trillion over  years, and nearly  trillion is needed to repair Americas infrastructure. If the US doesnt pay its overdue infrastructure bill, ASCE said that by , the economy will lose  trillion in growth, and exports will decline by . trillion. In addition, each American household will bear , in hidden costs per year. The society represents civil engineers around the world and has released a scorecard every four years since . Groups such as the engineers society have a clear interest in triggering as much public spending as possible to benefit their members. Despite the upgrade, society Executive Director Tom Smith contends this years ranking still misses the mark. While that is an incremental, small improvement, it still is not something to write home about. Its certainly not a grade that youd be proud of, he told CNN. Representative Peter DeFazio, who chairs the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, called the latest infrastructure grades not acceptable. The Oregon Democrat said in a statement that the states cant go it alone. The cities cant go it alone. They need a federal partner. Business groups and many Republicans have expressed a willingness to work with the Biden administration to pass  trillion or more in infrastructure spending. But they have made clear to the administration that raising taxes could scuttle any chance of a consensus deal. Globally, China spent more on infrastructure in  than any other country in the world as a percentage of GDP, at . percent, according to a December  report on statista.com. Chinas average infrastructure spending in  was  times higher than that of the United States. Indeed, Chinas investments were significantly higher than anywhere else in the world. By comparison, investments in Central  Eastern Europe  the CEE region  were relatively higher than those in their Western European counterparts, research expert Raynor de Best wrote in the report. During his presidential campaign, Joe Biden proposed a  trillion infrastructure plan that would focus on job creation and climate progress. Since becoming president, Biden has prioritized passing an infrastructure bill this year after passage of the . trillion coronavirus relief bill. On March , Biden, VicePresident Kamala Harris and Transportation Secretary Pete Buttigieg met with a bipartisan group of senators at the White House to discuss infrastructure. After the meeting, Republican Representative Sam Graves of Missouri, the ranking member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, said a highway bill cant grow into a multitrilliondollar catchall bill, or it will lose Republican support. We have to be responsible, and a bill whose cost is not offset will lose Republican support, he said.