Sinopharm jab builds up trust among Hungarians
2021-03-07 16:01
A local resident receives an injection of the Sinopharm vaccine against COVID in Budapest, Hungary, on March , . PhotoXinhua    BUDAPESTA COVID vaccine from Chinas Sinopharm is becoming more and more recognized among healthcare professionals in Hungary, as well as with the ordinary people now being protected with the jab as the country contends with a third wave of the coronavirus pandemic. I trust the Chinese vaccine, said Gabor Magyari, an elderly recipient of the vaccine on Friday.I dont care if the vaccine is Chinese or Russian or American. As long as it is good for my health, I am happy to get it. Agnes Kissne Dudas, a middleaged woman, said she feels well after having been inoculated. I received the Chinese vaccine it is what was available. The important thing is to get inoculated, she said. Amid the concerns accompanying the latest wave of the pandemic, peoples willingness to get vaccinated has increased a lot, said Csaba Denes, a family doctor. With the daily infection numbers being elevated, resulting in more people getting admitted to hospitals, there is more demand on ICU space and for ventilators. This has an effect on the willingness of people to get inoculated, he said. The Hungarian government is fortifying its vaccination program with the Chinesedeveloped vaccine and one from Russia, known as Sputnik V. Hungary became the first member of the European Union to authorize the use of a Chinese COVID vaccine, administering the first doses of the Sinopharm jab on Feb . The Sinopharm vaccine is unique among the vaccines authorized in Hungary, as this is the only inactivated vaccine which is using the whole virus with all the proteins of the coronavirus itself, said Miklos Rusvai, a professor and virologist at the Hungarian Academy of Sciences. It is a very good and very effective immunization method. The use of the inactivated vaccines is very safe, said the expert, adding that safety is the No  concern of the public. I think this vaccine will play a significant role in the fight against the epidemic, Rusvai said. Xinhua  Agencies