Relief bill survives marathon to advance
2021-03-07 15:45
US President Joe Biden speaks during a roundtable meeting with Americans who will benefit from the COVID pandemic relief checks that are a part of the American Rescue Plan on March ,  in Washington, DC. PhotoAgencies    WASHINGTONDemocrats in the US Senate forged ahead with President Joe Bidens . trillion coronavirus relief plan early on Saturday, turning back Republican attempts to modify the package in a marathon session that had begun the prior day. With Republicans united in opposition, Democrats who narrowly control the chamber must keep all  of their members on board in order to pass the packageBidens foremost legislative priorityas they hope to do this weekend. Progress ground to a halt for more than  hours as Democrats negotiated a compromise on unemployment benefits to satisfy centrists, chiefly Senator Joe Manchin, who worried the massive package might overheat the economy. With that issue resolved, the chamber then moved to a series of Republican attempts to modify the bill. The first attemptto adjourn for the eveningfell short by a vote of  to . The largest public health crisis in a century has killed more than , in the United States, thrown millions out of work and upended most aspects of peoples lives. The relief legislation includes funding for vaccines and medical supplies, extends jobless assistance and provides a new round of emergency financial aid to households, small businesses and state and local governments. Broad public backing Opinion polls indicate broad public support for the package. Democrats hope to get it to Biden to sign into law before some current benefits expire on March . Unemployment aid is just one of many friction points in the sweeping bill. An attempt to raise the minimum wage fell short earlier in the day, and Democrats had earlier modified the bill to steer more aid to smaller states and cities. The version passed by the House of Representatives on Feb  calls for  per week in jobless benefits through Aug , on top of state benefits, to help those who have lost jobs amid the economic trauma caused by the coronavirus. The compromise would lower that weekly benefit to , but extend it through Sept , according to a Democratic aide. The first , would be taxfree. Washington got unexpected good news on Friday after data showed that employment surged in February, adding , jobs, significantly higher than many economists had expected. The US unemployment rate, while still high at . percent last month, was down from . percent in January. Agencies  Xinhua