Scientists should bolster defense against COVID strains, senior biomedical engineer says
2021-03-07 13:48
Chen Wei, an academic at the Chinese Academy of Engineering, speaks during thesecond plenary meeting of the fourth session of the th National Committee of the Chinese Peoples Political Consultative Conference at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing, March , . PhotoXinhua    The countrys scientific community should continue its rigorous and intensive research on COVID, and bolster the nations preparedness by developing vaccines and diagnostic kits against mutated strains of SARSCoV, a senior biomedical engineer said during the second plenary meeting of the fourth session of the th National Committee of the Chinese Peoples Political Consultative Conference on Sunday. History and practices have told us that only by grasping core technologies with our own hands can we ensure socioeconomic development, longterm prosperity and the stability of the nation, and safeguard peoples lives and health, said Chen Wei, an academic at the Chinese Academy of Engineering and the lead scientist who spearheaded Chinas singledose adenovirus vector vaccine against COVID. The vaccine, dubbed AdnCoV, uses a weakened common cold virus to introduce a section of the genetic material from the novel coronavirus into the human body, thus training its immune system to recognize the virus and fight it off. With a single injection, the vaccine has an overall efficacy rate of . percent at preventing symptomatic cases and is . percent effective in preventing severe disease, according to interim analysis of phase three human trials. Current data shows that a single dose should provide protection for six months. If an individual were to receive a booster shot after the six months period, it can increase the immune response  to  times, and the twoshot regime is estimated to provide protection for two years. On March , AdnCoV was the first vaccine candidate against COVID in the world to enter human trials. It was later greenlighted for emergency use in the Chinese military and has now been approved for conditional market use in China.