France sees , COVID infections,  deaths in  hours
2021-03-06 10:03
A women wears a mask on the street of Paris, on March , . PhotoXinhua    PARIS  The number of people who tested positive for COVID in France increased by , in the past  hours, while another  patients died, according to figures released by health authorities on Friday. This daily count, down from , on Thursday, has brought the countrys accumulative total of infections to ,,. The total of deaths reached ,. Some , people with COVID remained hospitalized, down by  in one day. Among them, , were receiving intensive treatment, up from , recorded on Thursday. Despite growing concerns over the spread of more contagious variants, French Prime Minister Jean Castex on Thursday retained from imposing a new nationwide lockdown but ordered tougher restrictions. As in AlpesMaritimes and Dunkirk, people in PasdeCalais in northern France have to stay at home from  am Saturday to  pm Sunday. Three more departments  HautesAlpes, Aisne and Aube  are added to the list of highalert zones, where large malls will close and maskwearing will be reinforced in all urban areas starting from Friday midnight. Local authorities will have the power to impose a ban on public gatherings on weekends in most crowded areas in these departments under reinforced surveillance where inhabitants are called to limit their travel as much as possible. So far, ,, people in France have received at least one shot of vaccines. The government plans to inoculate  million citizens by midApril,  million by midMay and a total of  million, or twothirds of the adults by summer. As the world is struggling to contain the pandemic, vaccination is underway in an increasing number of countries with the alreadyauthorized vaccines. Meanwhile,  candidate vaccines are still being developed worldwide   of them in clinical trials  in countries including Germany, China, Russia, Britain, and the United States, according to information released by the World Health Organization on March .