US experts Growth target well within Chinas capacity
2021-03-06 06:44
Premier Li Keqiang delivers a government work report at the opening meeting of the fourth session of the th National Peoples Congress at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing, capital of China, March , . PhotoXinhua    China said on Friday it aimed for a robust return to economic growth of over  percent, a target that experts said is well within Chinas capacity and positive to global economic recovery. In setting this target, we have taken into account the recovery of economic activity, Chinese Premier Li Keqiang said at the opening of the annual legislative meeting. A target of over  percent will enable all of us to devote full energy to promoting reform, innovation, and highquality development. Douglas H. Paal, senior researcher of the Asia Program at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, said Chinas growth aim for  is reasonable against last years level, which, standing at . percent, made China the worlds only major economy registering positive growth amid the global COVID pandemic. It indicates a return to normal, and it will be a plus for the global level of economic growth, Paal told China Daily. He added that the target is quite feasible, and well within Chinas capacity. The International Monetary Fund, in its World Economic Outlook update released in late January, predicted the world could achieve . percent growth in , while Chinas economy will grow at . percent this year, built on its effective pandemiccontainment measures and policy support. With this target, China will be the fastest growing large economy in the world, essentially an engine of growth for everyone else, said Gary Hufbauer, a senior fellow and trade expert at the Peterson Institute for International Economics. That would be good news, he said. In the Government Work Report, Li said that domestically, there are still weak links in our work to control Covid, and the foundation for achieving the countrys economic recovery needs to be further consolidated, impediments to consumer spending remain, and investment growth lacks sustainability. Hufbauersaid that among the many measures to be taken, the country should remain cautious against the possible occurrence of clusters of COVID cases. To achieve  percent or better, China will need to step up its vaccination program, and vaccinate at least half the population by summer, he said. This is a logistical challenge, but achievable. On international trade, Li said the country would promote the growth of mutually beneficial ChinaUS business relations on the basis of equality and mutual respect. In January, the US trade gap with China fell to . billion, or nearly . percent down from . billion in December, while its overall trade deficit increased by nearly . percent on record goods imports as the coronavirus pandemic continues to distort global commerce, the US Commerce Department reported Friday. US exports to China fell . percent to . billion in January, while imports declined . percent to . billion, according to the official data. The Biden administration has not yet rolled out a trade policy with China, but said it is ready to work with Beijing, when its in Americas interest to do so. In , exports to China supported . million jobs in the US and as of , , people in the US were directly employed by Chinese multinational firms, according to a report the USChina Business Council released in partnership with the Oxford Economics in January. With China forecast to drive around onethird of global growth over the next decade, maintaining market access to China is increasingly essential for US businesses global success, the report said.