Kenya receives  million vaccine doses
2021-03-05 20:08
A consignment of AstraZenecaOxford vaccines under the COVAX scheme against coronavirus disease COVID is seen packed before distribution at the Kitengela cold rooms stores in Kitengela, outside Nairobi, Kenya March , . PhotoAgencies    Kenya received  million OxfordAstraZeneca coronavirus vaccines on Wednesday, the first East African nation to get a shipment of the vaccines. The Ministry of Health said it would set aside , coronavirus jabs for the countrys medical workers. With fewer resources and tougher logistics than other regions, African nations are racing to secure the doses needed to protect their roughly . billion people and allow the safe reopening of economies. Kenyas batch, which arrived on a Qatar Airways passenger flight, is the first of an initial allocation of . million doses by the COVAX facility, a global initiative aimed at equitable access to COVID vaccines led by the Vaccine Alliance and the World Health Organization. Speaking to journalists after receiving the vaccines at Jomo Kenyatta International Airport in Nairobi, Mutahi Kagwe, Kenyas health minister, assured the country there will be more medicine arriving and there was no need to fear. This is only the first arrival, there will be more vaccines coming through and therefore, we dont want anybody to panic and to think that they are not going to get vaccinated, Kagwe said. The second thing is that its a voluntary thing, its not a mandatory vaccination. People who want to be vaccinated will be vaccinated and we hope it will be a majority of the people, he added. Kagwe said that among the first to receive the dose will be healthcare workers, followed by other frontline workers, such as the police and teachers. Next in line will be Kenyans with underlying health conditions that make them vulnerable to coronavirus. Kenya recorded its first case of coronavirus in March last year. So far, more than , people have contracted the virus and at least , have died. The East African nation still has a nighttime curfew in place and banned public gatherings to limit the viruss spread. On the other hand, Senegal, which received , doses developed by Chinas Sinopharm in February, got an additional , shots of the AstraZeneca vaccine on Wednesday through the COVAX facility. In Kigali, officials said Rwanda will get the first doses of the Pfizer COVID shots to be dispatched to Africa under the vaccinesharing plan. The Pfizer vaccine presents an extra logistical challenge because it requires ultracold storage. Rwanda plans to start its vaccination drive on Friday, prioritizing frontline health workers and others at high risk. It hopes to vaccinate  percent of its roughly  million people before the end of . Despite Africas comparatively low fatalities, fragile economies across the continent are reeling from lockdowns.