The next COVID hurdle Hesitancy about getting vaccine
2021-03-05 13:12
Nurse Keesha Kelsey administers a coronavirus disease COVID vaccine to T.Y. Jones, , at Richmond raceway in Richmond, Virginia, US on March , . PhotoAgencies    Poll finds about onethird in US reluctant to get shots, fearing side effects or preferring to wait Despite President Joe Biden announcing that there will be enough vaccine in May for all adults in the US, a significant percentage of Americans say they are hesitant about getting a vaccine, and some antivaccine activists are saying that COVID shots are deadly. The antivaccine groups are blaming patients coincidental medical problems on COVID vaccines, even when it is clear that age or underlying health conditions are to blame. Antivaccine groups have falsely claimed for decades that childhood vaccines cause autism. They will sensationalize anything that happens after someone gets a vaccine and attribute it to the vaccine, Dr Peter Hotez, an infectious diseases specialist and author of Preventing the Next Pandemic Vaccine Diplomacy in a Time of AntiScience, told CNN. Twitter announced Tuesday that it will ban users who repeatedly tweet harmful misinformation about COVID vaccines. If users accrue five strikes, they face a permanent ban. About onethird of Americans are hesitant about getting vaccinated, according to a new poll. Among those,  percent say they will probably receive the vaccine, and  percent say they probably wont. The poll from The Associated PressNORC Center for Public Affairs Research, which surveyed , American adults from Jan  through Feb , found that while  percent of Americans said they will definitely get vaccinated or already have been inoculated,  percent arent certain they will. Of those who said they are skeptical to get the vaccine,  percent cited concerns about side effects, and  percent are waiting to see if it is safe. The poll suggests that substantial vaccine hesitancy persists more than a month and a half since the start of vaccination in the US. People without college degrees, black Americans, Republicans and younger adults are more inclined to be skeptical of COVID vaccines, according to the poll. Meanwhile, the Johnson  Johnson oneshot COVID vaccine has been singled out for moral concerns by the US Conference of Catholic Bishops, as well as at least six other dioceses from across the country, including New Orleans and St. Louis. They have released statements over the shot due to its use of cell lines that descend from cells taken in the s from the tissue of aborted fetuses. In a statement released Tuesday, the Conference of Catholic bishops drew a subtle distinction between vaccines from Pfizer and Moderna, which used abortionderived cell lines only in testing the vaccines efficiency. But the JJ vaccine used an abortionderived cell line not only in testing but in development and production, which the bishops group said raises moral concerns. President Joe Biden and Dr Anthony Fauci, the nations leading infectious disease expert, are both Catholic. Biden hasnt commented, but Fauci urged Americans to take whatever vaccine is immediately available to them. All three of them are really quite good, and people should take the one thats most available to them. People need to get vaccinated as quickly and as expeditiously as possible, Fauci told NBC News on Sunday. If I would go to a place where they had Johnson  Johnson, I would have no hesitancy whatsoever to take it. A new Harvard University survey published Monday found that pregnant women and mothers of children younger than  in the US have the lowest willingness to receive the vaccine, compared with other countries. A survey of , women in  countries conducted by researchers at the T.H. Chan School of Public Health at Harvard found the highest vaccine acceptance in India, the Philippines and Latin American countries, with more than  percent acceptance among pregnant women. The vaccineacceptance rate in the US and Russia is below  percent among pregnant women, according to the survey. Our study confirmed that COVID vaccine hesitancy is multifaceted, Julia Wu, a senior author of the survey said in a report. The perceived threat of COVID, level of trust in public health agencies, and existing preCOVID  vaccine attitudes play key roles shaping vaccine acceptance and confidence. About onethird of troops on active duty or in the National Guard have declined voluntary vaccinations, military officials recently told Congress. In some places, such as Fort Bragg, North Carolina, the nations largest military installation, acceptance rates are below  percent, according to The New York Times. A recent survey by the military family nonprofit Blue Star Family found that military spouses appear to share that hesitation. The survey of  activeduty family members released in December showed  percent said they wouldnt allow their children to receive the vaccine. Im not sure I want to be a guinea pig, and I really dont want my kids to be either, one military spouse said. I want to know the side effects and what can happen in  years. Agencies contributed to this story.