US starts rolling out newlyapproved Johnson  Johnsons COVID vaccine
2021-03-02 09:47
A lab worker holds a vial of Johnson  Johnsons Janssen COVID vaccine candidate in an undated photograph. PhotoAgencies    WASHINGTON  The United States started rolling out Johnson  Johnsons COVID vaccine to states on Monday, after the singledose vaccine got green light from regulators to be administered to people  and older. Trucks carrying the vaccines are en route to states and sites that have been seeking more doses to curb the pandemic. The shipments are expected to reach states and vaccination sites as early as Tuesday, according to the Joe Biden administration. Johnson  Johnson prepared  million doses for initial shipment, and expected to ship more than  million doses by March, according to the company. The Johnson  Johnson vaccine will speed up rollout in part because it does not require the same cold chain as the RNA vaccines, Stanley Perlman, professor of microbiology and immunology at the University of Iowa, told Xinhua. The US Food and Drug Administration FDA authorized Johnson  Johnsons COVID vaccine for emergency use on Saturday. A day later, the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention CDC on Sunday recommended the vaccine to be administered for Americans  years of age and older. It is the third COVID vaccine that has received the FDAs emergency use authorization in the country, following the first one developed by American drugmaker Pfizer in partnership with German company BioNTech, and the second one developed by American drugmaker Moderna. Unlike the twoshot dosing for the vaccines from PfizerBioNTech and Moderna, the Johnson  Johnson vaccine only requires one shot. Meanwhile, it does not require ultracold storage. Over  million vaccine doses have been distributed across the United States as of Monday, and more than  million doses have been administered, CDC data show. Now, manufacturing and delivery are improving so both are less of an issue than they have been, Perlman told Xinhua. But vaccine hesitancy may be a problem, he noted.