US CDC recommends Johnson  Johnsons COVID vaccine for people  and older
2021-03-01 09:43
A vial and sryinge are seen in front of a displayed JohnsonJohnson logo in this illustration taken Jan , . PhotoAgencies    WASHINGTON  The US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention CDC on Sunday recommended the Johnson  Johnson COVID vaccine for Americans  years of age and older, a final clearance for the vaccine after it was authorized by the US Food and Drug Administration FDA on Saturday. The CDCs Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices voted to recommend the vaccine to be administered to people  and older. CDC Director Rochelle Walensky signed the recommendation that endorsed the safety and effectiveness of Johnson  Johnsons COVID vaccine and its use across the country. This official CDC recommendation  which follows Saturdays FDA decision to authorize emergency use of the vaccine  is another milestone toward an end to the pandemic, Walensky said in a statement. This third safe, effective COVID vaccine comes at a potentially pivotal time, she said. As a onedose vaccine, people do not have to return for a second dose to be protected. In addition, this vaccine does not need to be kept in a freezer and can be stored at refrigerated temperatures  so it is easy to transport and store and allows for expanded availability in most community settings and mobile sites, as supply scales up, Walensky said. The CDC recommendation came a day after the FDA authorized Johnson  Johnsons COVID vaccine for emergency use. The authorization of this vaccine expands the availability of vaccines, the best medical prevention method for COVID, to help us in the fight against this pandemic, which has claimed over half a million lives in the United States, said Janet Woodcock, acting FDA commissioner. It is the third COVID vaccine that has received the FDAs emergency use authorization in the country, following the first one developed by American drugmaker Pfizer in partnership with German company BioNTech, and the second one developed by American drugmaker Moderna. Some  million doses of the Johnson  Johnson vaccine would be expected to start shipping as early as Monday, with some , of that expected to go directly to pharmacies, according to the company. Over  million vaccine doses have been distributed across the United States as of Sunday, and more than  million doses have been administered, CDC data show.