China has long upheld spirit, principles of UN Charter
2021-10-26 08:57
Photo taken on Sept ,  shows the United Nations UN flag flying outside the UN headquarters in New York, the United States. PhotoXinhua    The founding of the United Nations on Oct , , was a milestone in humanitys pursuit of peace and development, and China was the first country to put its signature on the UN Charter. On Oct , , the UN General Assembly at its th session adopted Resolution  with an overwhelming majority, restoring all rights to the Peoples Republic of China as the only legitimate representative of China to the United Nations. The restoration was a victory for New China, for justice and fairness in the world, and for the purposes and principles of the UN Charter. Over the past  years, China has always stayed true to its original aspiration. As the worlds largest developing country and a permanent member of the UN Security Council, China honors the UN Charter, vigorously promotes the spirit and approach of multilateralism, and has made tireless efforts and important contributions to peace, development and the progress of mankind. As Chairman Mao Zedong put it, fellow developing countries carried the PRC into the United Nations. The meaningful word carry aptly captures the profound friendship between China and other developing countries. In the five decades since, China has firmly upheld the legitimate rights and interests of fellow developing countries and spoken up for the developing world. China has been standing together with developing countries in the past and at present and will do so in the future, and its vote at the UN has been for the wellbeing of developing countries and for justice in the world. It is expected that their friendship will carry on, so as to lead to a collective rise of developing countries and make it a defining trend of the st century. China has set a good example in upholding the international order, by being strongly committed to democracy, rule of law and equity in international relations. China put forth the Five Principles of Peaceful Coexistence as early as in the s, and has since faithfully observed them, contributing significantly to the formulation and development of the basic norms governing international relations. Over the past five decades, China has joined almost all universal intergovernmental organizations, signed more than  international conventions, earnestly fulfilled its international obligations, and honored its international commitments. From putting forth the Three Worlds Theory to the proposal for a new international political and economic order, from building a harmonious world to a community with a shared future for mankind, China has shared its wisdom and solutions for world peace and development. President Xi Jinpings vision for building a community with a shared future for mankind rises above differences in social systems and development stages and rejects the zerosum mentality and geopolitical calculations. It sets a common goal for different countries, different nations and different civilizations. The initiative is the banner of majorcountry diplomacy with Chinese characteristics in the new era, and is conducive to improvement of global governance. China has honored its responsibilities for upholding world peace by having participated in plus UN peacekeeping operations. By sending more than , peacekeepers in total, China has become the largest contributor of peacekeepers among the permanent members of the UN Security Council and the secondlargest funding contributor to the UN and UN peacekeeping operations. Today, more than , Chinese peacekeepers are on duty across the globe. China has also set up a standby force of , troops and a police squad of  for UN peacekeeping missions who are ready to go anytime they are needed to safeguard world peace. These showcase Chinas commitment to the UN Charter. As a permanent member of the Security Council, China has been actively seeking solutions to hot spot issues in line with the spirit of the UN Charter. It upholds sovereign equality and opposes power politics, hegemony, exclusive blocs and interference in other countries internal affairs. It has taken the side of peace, stood for political settlement and opposed the use of force and unilateral sanctions. China was among the first to reach the UN Millennium Development Goals. China has met,  years in advance, the poverty eradication goal set out in the UNs  Agenda for Sustainable Development. As a responsible member of the UN Security Council, it has made active contributions to addressing global challenges. In the global fight against COVID, China launched as promptly as possible an emergency humanitarian operation, and has provided medical supplies to over  countries and  international organizations. President Xi has announced that Chinese vaccines will be made a global public good, and that China will be committed to ensuring accessibility and affordability of vaccines in developing countries. As China celebrates the  years of its presence after resumption of membership at this historic point, it is dedicated to making allout efforts to participate in UN affairs, meet its duties and promote the purposes and principles of the UN Charter. China is upholding the spirit of extensive consultation, joint contribution and shared benefits and the banner of true multilateralism and, together with the rest of the world, forging ahead for greater peace and development of mankind. The author is secretarygeneral of the Pakistan China Friendship Associations Khyber Pakhtunkhwa branch in Pakistan. The views do not necessarily reflect those of China Daily.