Hungarian PM receives injection of Chinas Sinopharm vaccine
2021-02-28 21:38
Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban receives an injection of Chinas Sinopharm vaccine against COVID in Budapest, on Feb , . Photo from Orbans official Facebook page    BUDAPEST  Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban received an injection of Chinas Sinopharm vaccine against COVID on Sunday. Vaccinated! Orban wrote on Facebook, posting a photo of himself getting the shot, a closeup of the Chinese vaccine and a picture of a door to the vaccination point where he received the inoculation. Orban received the shot two days after Hungarian President Janos Ader, who also opted for the Chinese vaccine. Hungarian Chief Medical Officer Cecilia Muller told a press conference Saturday that it is very important for highranking Hungarian officials to get immunized publicly, in order to set an example for the population. With access to vaccines from five producers, namely Chinas Sinopharm, Pfizer, Moderna, AstraZeneca and Russias Sputnik V, Hungary, the first European Union member state to buy and authorize the use of Chinese vaccines, started to administer the Sinopharm vaccine on Wednesday. The Hungarian government is boosting its vaccination program with Russian and Chinese vaccines, as the third wave of the pandemic has brought daily infections and deaths in the country to the level of midDecember last year. Hungary on Sunday registered , new cases and  more deaths in the past  hours, raising its national total to , and the death toll to ,, according to official data. So far, , people have recovered. Currently, , patients are being treated in hospitals, including  on ventilators, figures from the governments coronavirus information website showed. As of Sunday, , people have received at least one vaccine jab, while , have received two jabs, according to the website. Hungary intends to inoculate all the . million people registered for the vaccine by Easter, and Orban aims to vaccinate a further million by May. After the arrival of the first batch of Chinese vaccines on Feb , Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade Peter Szijjarto said Friday that another batch would arrive in Hungary in March.