Hungarian president receives injection of Chinas Sinopharm vaccine against COVID
2021-02-28 16:04
Hungarian President Janos Ader receives an injection of Chinas Sinopharm vaccine against COVID in Budapest on Feb , . PhotoXinhua    BUDAPEST  Hungarian President Janos Ader received an injection of Chinas Sinopharm vaccine against COVID on Friday as the country was bracing for the third wave of the pandemic. Ader told local news agency MTI that he chose the Chinese product that was immediately available, instead of Pfizer or Modernas vaccines, for which he would have to wait several months. Meanwhile, in a short message aired by Hungarian public television M, Ader called on all Hungarians to register for the vaccination as soon as possible. Anyone who gets the chance to receive the first and then the second vaccine with any product approved by the Hungarian authorities and Hungarian experts should do so, Ader said. Lets trust our doctors, lets trust our healthcare system, Ader said, adding that he hoped that Hungarians would soon leave the pandemic behind. With access to vaccines from five producers, namely Chinas Sinopharm, Pfizer, Moderna, AstraZeneca and Russias Sputnik V, Hungary, the first European Union EU member state to buy and authorize the use of Chinese vaccines, started to administer the Sinopharm vaccine on Wednesday. Calling the first day of the injection of Chinese vaccines a very important day, Prime Minister Viktor Orban stressed that vaccines purchased from the EU were arriving slower than expected, and Hungary would find itself in big trouble without Chinese and Russian vaccines. The Hungarian government is boosting its vaccination program with Russian and Chinese vaccines, as the third wave of the pandemic has brought daily infections and deaths in the country to the level of midDecember last year. Hungary on Saturday registered , new cases and  more deaths in the past  hours, raising its national total to , and the death toll to ,, according to official data. So far, , people have recovered. Currently, , patients are being treated in hospitals, including  on ventilators, figures from the governments coronavirus information website showed. As of Saturday, , people have received at least a first vaccine jab, while , have received two jabs, according to the website. According to a Friday report by local media Daily Metropol, Hungarians were lining up to get the Chinese jab. Hungary intends to inoculate all the . million people registered for the vaccine by Easter, and Prime Minister Orban aims to vaccinate a further million by May. After the arrival of the first batch of Chinese vaccines, Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade Peter Szijjarto said Friday that another batch would arrive in Hungary in March. With the help of Russian and Chinese vaccines, Hungary would become the EU member with the highest number of citizens vaccinated, Orban said.