US, EU say vaccine rollout on track
2021-02-27 15:09
European Union leaders gather on Thursday, via videoconference link, to try to inject new energy into the nation blocs lagging coronavirus vaccination effort. PhotoAgencies    It comes as global COVID deaths surpass . million WASHINGTONThe United States on Thursday hailed progress in turning around its troubled COVID vaccine rollout, and the European Union said it was on track to meet jab targets as global coronavirus deaths surpassed . million. US President Joe Biden declared the countrys rollout is now weeks ahead of schedule as he celebrated  million vaccines administered since he took office on Jan . But he warned the public to keep masking up. Were moving in the right direction despite the mess we inherited,Biden said, referring to the program under his predecessor Donald Trump. The US is the worlds hardesthit country, with coronavirus deaths crossing the , mark earlier this week. Biden said that there would be enough supply for all adult Americans by the end of July. The EU announced on Thursday it expected to vaccinate  percent of adults by the end of the summer, after months of problems and friction. European Commission chief Ursula von der Leyen said fully vaccinating just under threequarters of adults by late summer was a goal that were confident with. EU leaders warned though that tight travel restrictions must remain as the bloc stepped up efforts to accelerate the provision of vaccines, although it would take months, not weeks, to build enough vaccine supplies. Some leaders like Austrias Sebastian Kurz want Europe to develop a socalled green passport for those who have been vaccinated to travel and socialize. The United Kingdoms Queen Elizabeth II, , said in a video message on Thursday that her coronavirus jab didnt hurt at all and encouraged those reluctant about receiving the vaccine to think about other people. The monarch was vaccinated along with her husband Prince Philip in January. Britain, which has forged ahead with its vaccine drive, said on Thursday it was lowering its alert level from the highest tier, citing a decline in cases. In total, ,, deaths and more than . million cases worldwide had been reported by Johns Hopkins University by Thursday. The US remains the worsthit nation, with ,, cases and , deaths, accounting for more than  percent of the global caseload and more than  percent of the worlds death toll. Brazil recorded , deaths. Mexico replaced India to become the country with the worlds third largest number of fatalities at ,. Vaccine rollouts have been patchy so far. Most of the  million vaccine doses administered globally have gone to wealthier countries. In France, hopes of a return to normal on the sports front were dashed after more than a dozen rugby players and staff tested positive, forcing Sundays Six Nations match against Scotland to be scrapped. Biggest drop in  years In another sign of the toll the pandemic is taking on populations, the number of babies born in France in January also fell by  percent, the biggest drop in  years. In Asia, South Korea on Friday administered its first available shots of coronavirus vaccines to people at longterm care facilities, launching a mass immunization campaign health authorities hope will restore some level of normalcy by the end of the year. Health authorities plan to complete injecting the first doses to nearly , residents and workers at longterm care settings and , frontline medical workers by the end of March. But theres criticism over the governments decision to delay the approval of the OxfordAstraZeneca vaccines for people over  until the developers provide more data that suggests the shots would be effective in that age group. The Japanese government is looking to end a state of emergency in all but Tokyo and three neighboring prefectures at the end of this month, a week earlier than scheduled, the minister in charge of coronavirus countermeasures said on Friday. Under emergency measures, Japan asks bars and restaurants to close by  pm and companies to strive for more telecommuting. It also suspended a popular Go To Travel subsidized domestic tourism program. Agencies  Xinhua