Brazil prosecutors seek to stop purchase of Indian vaccine
2021-02-27 04:31
FILE PHOTO Indian Health Minister Harsh Vardhan holds a dose of Bharat Biotechs COVID vaccine called COVAXIN, during a vaccination campaign at All India Institute of Medical Sciences AIIMS hospital in New Delhi, India, January , . PhotoAgencies    BRASILIA  Brazilian prosecutors are seeking the immediate suspension of purchases of Indias COVID vaccine COVAXIN, according to a document seen by Reuters on Friday, one day after the health ministry signed a contract to purchase  million doses. The vaccine made by private Indian company Bharat Biotech has yet to be backed up with Phase III clinical trial results, the prosecutors at the Federal Audit Court, known as the TCU, argued in seeking an injunction. The health ministry did not immediately respond to a request for comment. Announcing the contract on Thursday, a ministry statement said the deal was worth . billion reais  million, with the first  million doses expected to arrive in March. The ministry published new rules last week dispensing with the bidding process to speed up the buying of vaccines and deal with the third biggest coronavirus outbreak in the world after the United States and India. But the absence of latestage trial results has raised criticism that rightwing President Jair Bolsonaros government is cutting corners to make up for a slow rollout of vaccines in Brazil, where more than a quarter of a million people have died of COVID. The Bharat vaccine rollout has run into trouble in India too. The oppositionruled state of Chhattisgarh in eastcentral India asked the federal government on Feb.  to halt the supply of COVAXIN until its efficacy could be proven in an ongoing latestage trial. Bharat Biotech, which created the vaccine with the staterun Indian Council of Medical Research, has said efficacy data from the latestage clinical trial of nearly , volunteers will be out by next month, leading to criticism from epidemiologists that it was approved too hastily for emergency use. Reuters