S. Korea launches mass COVID vaccination nationwide
2021-02-26 09:31
People wearing masks take a walk amid the coronavirus disease COVID pandemic at a Hanriver Park in Seoul, South Korea, Feb , . PhotoAgencies    SEOUL  South Korea on Friday launched its mass COVID vaccination nationwide, starting with patients and health workers under the age of  in nursing hospitals and facilities. The free vaccination campaign began at  a.m. local time across the country. On the first day, , patients and health workers in  nursing facilities are scheduled to be inoculated, according to the Korea Disease Control and Prevention Agency KDCA. Separately,  nursing hospitals started administering vaccines according to their own schemes of inoculation that is slated to be completed in five days. The first batch of the twodose AstraZeneca vaccines will be administered to a total of , patients and health workers in , sanatoriums and , elderly care and rehabilitation facilities who agreed to the vaccination. It represents . percent of the total personnel and patients in the facilities. The health authorities aimed to finish administering the first jabs in the longterm care facilities in March. The AstraZeneca vaccines were manufactured at a domestic plant of SK Bioscience, the pharmaceutical unit of South Koreas thirdbiggest conglomerate SK Group. SK Bioscience signed a consignment manufacturing deal with the BritishSwedish drug producer last year, and also with the US pharmaceutical company Novavax earlier this month. From Saturday, the vaccination campaign will kick off for , medical workers treating COVID patients in  hospitals and  residential treatment centers across the country. It represents . percent of the total personnel. The medical staff will receive the twodose vaccines of US drug maker Pfizer. The health authorities planned to complete the first shots by March . South Korean President Moon Jaein vowed to provide vaccines to all of the countrys  million population free of charge, aiming to almost completely form a herd immunity no later than November. In the latest tally, the country reported  more cases of COVID for the past  hours, raising the total number of infections to ,.