Mass vaccinations underway in all Beijing districts
2021-02-26 09:01
Employees of internet giant Tencent receive COVID vaccinations at their workplace in Beijing on Monday.ZOU HONGCHINA DAILY    Mass vaccinations for individuals have started in all districts in Beijing in recent days, the citys government said. The city completed coronavirus vaccinations for around . million people by Sunday. It has a population of more than  million. Beijing started vaccinating nine key groups of individuals on Jan  and completed the work early this month. The nine groups included customs inspectors dealing with imported coldchain food products, workers at entry ports and workers in the international and domestic transportation industries. Delivery workers, people traveling abroad for work or personal reasons, medical workers and government department workers were also included. The municipal government said vaccination of individuals will continue in the coming weeks. After the Lunar New Year holiday, which ended on Feb , many districts started vaccinating people who had made reservations online. The work is usually organized with the help of communities. Receiving vaccination is good for our health. Meanwhile, as a company in the service industry, our customers can be less worried when our staff have taken the doses, said Jia Feiyue, president of Beijing Huatian Catering Group, which owns many restaurants in the city. Jia said  percent of its staff members have been vaccinated. Xicheng district, where the group is headquartered, has organized vaccinations for restaurant staff since the middle of this month. By Monday, , of the , restaurant staff in the district had been vaccinated and the work is continuing. Vaccinations for people working in other industries will then follow. Zhang Guoshun, an official from Xichengs market supervision bureau, said signs have been put up denoting restaurants where more than  percent of staff have been vaccinated. Beijings Dongcheng district started mass vaccinations on Feb . With  vaccination sites, , people can be vaccinated each day, district authorities said. By Monday, Dongchengs health authority had given , doses, including first and second doses. People who have taken both doses are considered to have completed the vaccination. For large institutions and companies, many districts will send teams to workplaces to offer vaccinations. In Haidian district, where many companies are based, the authorities sent medical teams to companies to improve vaccination efficiency. Tencent Group, whose Beijing headquarters are in Haidian, organized for , staff members to be vaccinated on Monday and Tuesday. Jiang Chu, director of Haidian districts disease prevention and control center, was invited to the companys vaccination site to answer inquiries about the vaccinations both onsite and online, through a livestreaming broadcast. Chen Miao, who works in marketing at Benewake, another technology company in Haidian, said the government has provided great service. Many of my colleagues have received the doses, as the whole process was simple and easy, she said. I believe the government workers have made lots of effort to simplify the procedures.