Ghana first to get jabs from COVAX
2021-02-25 08:56
A man displays a vial AstraZenecas COVISHIELD vaccine as the country receives its first batch of coronavirus disease COVID vaccines under COVAX scheme, in Accra, Ghana on Feb , . PhotoAgencies    Ghana on Wednesday became the first country to receive a COVID vaccine under a World Health Organizationled initiative to ensure the equitable distribution of supplies. The initiative, known as COVAX, accepts donations of cash and vaccines from nations that have bought or produced jabs, and redistributes inoculations to countries that would otherwise struggle to secure them. As an aircraft carrying , doses of the AstraZeneca and Oxford vaccine produced by the Serum Institute of India landed in Ghanas capital, Accra, the WHO said vaccinating everyone is not only fair but the best way to protect the planet. These , COVAX vaccines are part of an initial tranche of deliveries  which represent part of the first wave of COVID vaccines headed to several lowand middleincome countries, the WHO said in a joint statement with the United Nations International Childrens Emergency Fund, or UNICEF. Momentous occasion Reuters news agency quoted AnneClaire Dufay, from UNICEF Ghana, and Francis Kasolo, the WHOs representative there, as saying This is a momentous occasion, as the arrival of the COVID vaccines into Ghana is critical in bringing the pandemic to an end. The WHO has repeatedly said rich nations must do all they can to share vaccines with poorer nations to avoid the pandemic continuing to rage in parts of the world where dangerous new variants could subsequently develop. COVAX hopes to deliver . billion doses by the end of the year, including . billion at no cost, and vaccinate  percent of the populations of the worlds poorer nations by yearend. Reuters said the African Union is also intervening on behalf of its  membernations, and hopes the continent of . billion will have vaccinated  percent of its population in three years. China has donated doses of its Sinopharm vaccine to many developing countries. Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, the WHOs directorgeneral, said nations need to do more. COVAX has accumulated  million doses for  countries and raised  billion to purchase jabs. The Guardian newspaper reported , doses are on the way to the Maldives, and jabs will soon roll out in Ivory Coast and the island nation of Sao Tome and Principe.