Financial stability key to a solid recovery
2021-10-26 07:07
LI MINCHINA DAILY    In the recently released World Economic Outlook, the International Monetary Fund has warned that uneven COVID vaccine rollout could divide the global economy with highincome countries continuing the recovery momentum, and lowincome countries risking further downturn. In addition, with the supply shocks resulting from the broken global value chains still weighing heavily on the real economy, the fragility of uneven recovery will be a major challenge to the global economy in the remaining months of , and next year. Many countries face the challenge of financial vulnerability, and emerging and developing economies are especially vulnerable to the risks the upcoming policy tightening in the advanced economies could create. Their financial stability is subject to the spillover effects from the policy shifts, resulting in volatile capital flows and disturbing exchange rate fluctuations. As such, many debtladen economies with limited policy tools and fiscal space could suffer prolonged economic damage. Apart from the shortterm shocks, cuttingedge challenges, such as digital transformation and climate change, are both opportunities and risks for sustainable growth. They need to be addressed now and properly. In this transitional period, maintaining global financial stability is key to a solid economic recovery. True, global efforts are paramount in these critical times, but we should not forget that the G has been playing an important role in prioritizing the tasks based on consensuses. For example, the Gs Debt Service Suspension Initiative DSSI has helped countries, by temporarily suspending their debt repayments, to concentrate their resources on fighting the pandemic and safeguarding the lives and livelihoods of millions of the most vulnerable people. Since taking effect on May  last year, the DSSI has helped  countries defer . billion debt payments. The global financial safety net also helps countries tackle debt and liquidity problem, with the IMF playing the central role in this process. Since March , the IMF has provided . billion as financial assistance for  countries under its various lending facilities, and . million in debt relief for  countries through the Catastrophe Containment and Relief Trust. The IMFs  billion Special Drawing Rights allocation came into effect on Aug  this year, serving as an additional funding source for countries to deal with liquidity problems, and boosting their vaccination drive. The IMF has also created the Resilience and Sustainability Trust with the aim of providing lowercost lending and a relatively long maturity period for lowincome countries and smaller states. More importantly, to combat and adapt to climate change, the IMF has pledged to include a climate element into its lending policy. But the IMF should do more to meet the increasing demand for funding. The IMFs board of governors completed the th quota review in February , providing the guidance for the th review that is expected to be completed by Dec , . Currently, the IMF member countries quota contributions account for less than half of the IMFs overall funding capacity. The rest of the funding comes from two major temporary arrangementsthe New Arrangement to Borrow and bilateral borrowing arrangements. No wonder many fear that the lack of permanent funding sources could limit the IMFs capacity and undermine its legitimacy. Moreover, in times of liquidity crunch, central banks currency swap lines are critical to mitigate financial risks. For instance, in March , the US Federal Reserve provided dollar swap lines to preempt a liquidity crisis in the major markets. In principle, the swap lines are regarded as quasiforeign reserves for countries in need. On its part, the Peoples Bank of China has signed bilateral swap line agreements worth . trillion yuan  billion with  central banks and monetary authorities worldwide since , contributing to global financial stability. At the regional level, regional financial arrangements help countries by extending them financial support. In the past, they have played a positive role in dealing with financial crises by joining hands with the IMF and other international andor regional financial institutions. But since very few of them were activated during the pandemic, it has become increasingly important to mobilize those regional arrangements, especially in situations where funding gaps cannot be covered. From a longterm perspective, a strengthened international financial system is needed for providing more public goods for the world, and international cooperation is required to deal with the common risks that threaten the global economy. Therefore, establishing international financial institutions with broader risk sharing among multiple actors is the way to better safeguard global financial stability and promote economic prosperity. The author is a senior fellow at the Institute for World Economics and Politics, Chinese Academy of Social Sciences. The views dont necessarily reflect those of China Daily. If you have a specific expertise, or would like to share your thought about our stories, then send us your writings at opinionchinadaily.com.cn, and commentchinadaily.com.cn.