US Fed to continue asset purchases as economy still in uneven recovery
2021-02-24 14:07
Chairman of the Federal Reserve Jerome Powell listens during a Senate Banking Committee hearing in Washington, Dec , . PhotoAgencies    WASHINGTON  US Federal Reserve Chair Jerome Powell signaled on Tuesday that the central bank will continue its asset purchase program to support the pandemicravaged economy as the recovery remains uneven and far from complete. The economy is a long way from our employment and inflation goals, and it is likely to take some time for substantial further progress to be achieved, Powell said at a virtual hearing before the Senate Banking Committee. We will continue to clearly communicate our assessment of progress toward our goals well in advance of any change in the pace of purchases, he said. The Fed has pledged to hold its policy rate near zero and continue its asset purchase program at least at the current pace of  billion per month until it sees substantial further progress in employment and inflation. While ongoing vaccinations offer hope for a return to more normal conditions later this year, Powell noted that the path ahead is still highly uncertain. In particular, the high level of joblessness has been especially severe for lowerwage workers and for African Americans, Hispanics, and other minority groups. The economic dislocation has upended many lives and created great uncertainty about the future, he said. Powell played down concerns of an inflationary outbreak as the Congress is moving ahead with President Joe Bidens .trillion COVID relief package. Inflation dynamics do change over time, but they dont change on a dime, and so we dont think how a burst of fiscal support or spending that doesnt last for many years would actually change those inflation dynamics, he said, adding economic and demographic forces have been pulling inflation down for a quarter of a century. We have been living in a world that for a quarter of a century where all of the pressures were disinflationary pushing downward on inflation, we have averaged less than  percent inflation for more than the last  years, said the Fed chief. Though GDP growth will boom over the next couple of years, Powell is laserfocused on the labor market, noting that the Fed looks at a broad range of metrics when evaluating maximum full employment, Ryan Sweet, a senior director at Moodys Analytics, wrote Tuesday in an analysis. Therefore, the unemployment rate could drop quickly but if the primeage employmenttopopulation ratio remains below its preCOVID level, the Fed will be reluctant to raise interest rates, Sweet wrote, expecting the Fed not to raise rates until early . Powell didnt waver in his very dovish policy stance. We can interpret his words as an attempt to discourage those who place aggressive bets in early liftoff or tapering, echoed Roberto Perli, a former Fed staffer and now head of global policy research at Cornerstone Macro, an independent research firm. In its semiannual Monetary Policy Report submitted to the Congress last week, the Fed warned that risks to the US economic outlook remain substantial while vaccines offer hope of an end to the pandemic. The pace of vaccinations, the rate of decline in the spread of the virus, and the speed with which people return to normal activities all remain highly uncertain, particularly given the emergence of new, apparently more contagious strains, the Fed said, adding the economic outlook depends crucially on the course of the pandemic.