Chinas vaccine initiative strengthens global fight against virus
2021-02-24 07:05
SHI YUCHINA DAILY    As a child I was always puzzled by the Chinese concept of nei internal and wai external. We came from a humble background, meaning food was not always abundantly available at home. Yet whenever an occasion arosea festival or a knock on the door by a neighbor or distant relativemom managed to concoct some dishes. This was especially the case during Spring Festival, when people enjoy the family reunion dinner, the best meal of the year. We kids would always complain about mom favoring nonfamily members with food. Giving one dish away meant one less for us. To which, mom would explain the need to balance nei and wai, often by doing good deeds. We felt that mom was doing this to give face to dad and, if we continued protesting, mom would add One day you will understand the true meaning of being a good neighbor. Reflections on good neighbor Reflecting on being a good neighbor, I came across four articles on Chinas evolving international vaccine assistance initiative prior to the Chinese Lunar New Year, each from a different perspective. The first, on the front page of China Dailys Feb  edition, features a small photograph of Peruvian President Francisco Sagasti welcoming Chinese pharmaceutical company Sinopharms COVID vaccines in Perus capital of Lima. The second, on the cover page of Guangzhou Daily, describes Chinas efforts to supply vaccines to  developing countries, highlighting Chinas participation in and contribution of  million doses of vaccines to the Worlds Health Organizationled COVAX program. Soft diplomacy paying off for China in Europe is the headline of the third article in Hong Kongbased South China Morning Post that, among other things, praises Chinas assistance to Hungary and Serbia. The fourth, an article in Singaporebased Straits Times, has a catchy headline, China unlikely to meet  million COVID vaccination before CNY and describes Chinas struggle to meet the internal demand for vaccines while extending help to other countries before the Chinese New Year. As an expat living in China for  years with children at home, I could see the four articles weaving around the fascinating concept of nei and wai. Balancing internal and external demands, especially due to limited resources, is never an easy task. To begin with, China is balancing nei and wai in its vaccine initiative, and gauging from news from the Americas to Europe, China is not alone in this delicate endeavor. While some of my Beijingbased colleagues have received COVID vaccine jabs, those in Guangzhou and Shanghai are yet to be vaccinated. We would do well to wait patiently for our turn, as Chinese authorities are on top of the vaccine rollout program. The strict pandemic prevention and control measures including wearing of face masks, maintaining social distancing in public places, and nationwide quick response QR codebased tracking system have helped China to largely contain the novel coronavirus within the country and focus on vaccine research, development and production. A needbased vaccine rollout, which balances all critical factors, is, in fact, the best way to defeat the virus. True, sharing a scarce resource with a neighborfood or vaccinemeans one less for ourselves. But hoarding, whether food or medicines, for domestic use is not the way to deal with a crisis. To borrow a catchphrase from American educator and leadership authority Stephen Covey, hoarding stems from scarcity. And since vaccines, like food, are used to save and build lives, they should be given to those who need them most. In order to contain the spread of a pandemic, countries may have to impose strict measures including lockdownsthe tighter the lockdown the better the outcome. Some countries and cities that halfheartedly imposed lockdowns have seen their healthcare systems being overwhelmed by rising cases, and second and third waves of infections, spreading fear in their neighborhood. On the other hand, countries that imposed strict prevention and control measures and helped other countries in their fight against the virus have raised hopes that the virus will be contained sooner rather than later. The more one helps ones neighbor, the safer the entire neighborhood will become. No nation can feel safe until all nations are safe Of course, not every country can develop its own vaccines. For those that cannot do so, the only option is to source the vaccines from the international market. But since not all countries can afford to purchase the highly priced COVID vaccines, lessdeveloped and poor countries will suffer more. However, that does not make rich countries safer, because until all countries are free of the virus, no single country can feel safe. While we often laud corporations and individuals, such as the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, which partly or fully fund vaccination or other medical programs, we seldom give credit to countries that help other countries to overcome medical or other emergencies. A friend in need is a friend indeed, whether that friend is an individual, a corporation or a country. Adam Smith, the father of modern economics, said the mercantilist approach to the economy is a sure formula to beggar thy neighbor, something a responsible society must avoid. So prosper with your neighbor or help your neighbor to prosper should be the way forward in the Year of the Ox, for China as well as other countries. What we do today echoes in eternity This is a cathartic moment in human historya time when the novel coronavirus has infected more than  million people and claimed over . million lives. So we need to make decisions responsibly on what to do and what not to do or sayand we owe it to our children to save lives and create a better neighborhood and a better world. As the fictional character of General Maximus Decimus Meridius says in the Gladiator What we do today echoes in eternity. Looking back, I can better appreciate my moms efforts against all odds to balance nei and wai. Due to the COVID travel restrictions, my family celebrated the Lunar New Year in three different countries this year. Yet all of us vowed to help people in need in the best way we could, and a good way to start that is offering food and medicines to others. As my mom says at the dinner table, it is more blessed to give than to receive. Lets hope the Year of the Ox augurs well for all with more supplies of food and vaccines. The author is the general manager of a foreign bank in Guangzhou. The views dont necessarily reflect those of China Daily. If you have a specific expertise and would like to contribute to China Daily, please contact us at opinionchinadaily.com.cn, and commentchinadaily.com.cn.