Chinas efforts in upholding world peace praised
2021-10-26 07:05
Chinese peacekeepers march during a medal ceremony in Hanniyah village, southern Lebanon, April , . PhotoXinhua    Russian ambassador hails the deepening of international cooperation, coordination Foreign envoys spoke highly on Monday of Chinas tremendous contributions as a member of the United Nations, saying that the presence of the Peoples Republic of China in the UN since  has made it the most universal and representative international organization with the greatest authority. They made the remarks as they gathered in Beijing for a conference marking the th anniversary of the restoration of the Peoples Republic of Chinas lawful seat in the UN. This is an important milestone that we are celebrating, because the return of China meant justice being done, said Mbelwa Kairuki, Tanzanian ambassador to China. One billion people who were not represented at the global institution were given their rightful seat at the UN. On October , , the UN General Assembly adopted Resolution  with  votes in favor, thereby restoring all rights to the Peoples Republic of China at the UN. Many countries representatives, including Tanzanias then permanent representative to the UN Salim Ahmed Salim, had stood up and applauded at that great moment. Ambassador Salim told me that they were so happy because they have gone through a long process. There were a lot of consultations, a lot of back and forth, and a lot of push and pull among different groups, Kairuki said. Calling the restoration of the Peoples Republic of Chinas lawful seat at the UN a major event of historic significance, Russian Ambassador to China Andrey Denisov said that the enormous contributions made by China to world peace and development over the past  years have been recognized worldwide. China firmly upholds the UNcentered international system underpinned by the international law, and advocates that all countries need to be pragmatic and carry out equal cooperation on the basis of transcending ideology and abandoning all forms of politicization, he said. Denisov noted that amid continued global geopolitical turbulence, his country and China, as stabilizers of world affairs, have been deepening their international cooperation and coordination and playing irreplaceable roles on a number of pressing issues. Ahcene Boukhelfa, Algerian ambassador to China, said that China has made vigorous efforts to promote SouthSouth cooperation, advanced cooperation within the framework of the Belt and Road Initiative, shared with many developing countries the opportunities and fruits of development, and worked to build a community with a shared future for humanity through concrete actions. Global public good After COVID broke out, China also helped developing countries to address their challenges and delivered on its promise to make vaccines a global public good, Boukhelfa said. Ahmed Farooq, deputy head of mission with the Pakistan embassy in Beijing, said that China has consistently promoted multilateralism over the years and proposed initiatives in such areas as climate change, biodiversity and sustainable development. These initiatives are very helpful and have a bearing on how multilateralism is going to move forward, he said.