Spains numbers of new cases, deaths and incidence of coronavirus continue to fall
2021-02-23 09:36
People wearing protective masks walk past bar customers after bars reopened in Spains Basque Country, amid the COVID outbreak, in Bilbao, Spain, Feb , . PhotoAgencies    MADRID  The numbers of new coronavirus cases, deaths and the incidence continued to fall in Spain, according to the Ministry of Health on Monday. Official data showed , new coronavirus cases for the hour period between  pm  GMT on Friday and  pm on Monday, bringing the countrys total tally to ,,. This is a significant fall from the , new cases the Ministry reported on Feb , which means the number of new cases has now fallen for four successive weekends. The weekend also saw  deaths over the hour period, lifting the total number of victims to ,. The death toll for the past weekend is also down from seven days ago when  people lost their lives. Meanwhile, the incidence of the virus over the past day period fell from  cases per , inhabitants a week ago to . cases Monday. Fernando Simon, director of the Coordination Center for Health Alerts and Emergencies of the Ministry of Health, said the data obviously shows a downward tendency in the past weeks, but we still have a high incidence of the virus and that means we cannot relax control measures. Monday also saw Spain pass the  million mark for the number of doses of vaccine which have so far been administered in the country. The Health Ministry said that of the ,, doses that have been distributed in the  autonomous regions, ,, have now been administered, with ,, people receiving both doses. As the world is struggling to contain the pandemic, vaccination is underway in some countries with the alreadyauthorized coronavirus vaccines. Meanwhile,  candidate vaccines are still being developed worldwide   of them in clinical trials  in countries including Germany, China, Russia, Britain and the United States, according to information released by the World Health Organization on Feb .