Mongolia receives COVID vaccine donation from China
2021-02-23 08:41
A medical worker fills a syringe with the Chinese Sinopharm vaccine in Belgrade, Serbia, Jan , . PhotoAgencies    ULAN BATOR  Mongolia on Monday night received , doses of Sinopharm COVID vaccine donated by China. The vaccine donation was welcomed at the Chinggis Khaan International Airport in Mongolias capital city of Ulan Bator by Mongolian Deputy Prime Minister Sainbuyan Amarsaikhan and Chinese Ambassador to Mongolia Chai Wenrui. On behalf of the Mongolian government and people, I would like to express my deep gratitude to China, our friendly neighbor and comprehensive strategic partner, for extending its helping hand during this difficult time, said Amarsaikhan. There is a Mongolian saying that goes, Close neighbors have one life, far away neighbors have one mind. Since the start of the COVID outbreak, Mongolia and China have provided each other with material and emotional support, which is a real example of how neighboring countries are overcoming difficulties together, he said. For his part, Chai said, The current global vaccine supply and demand are very tight. China has overcome difficulties when its own vaccine supply is not sufficient, and has not hesitated to give , doses of vaccine to Mongolia free of charge, which shows that China attaches great importance to ChinaMongolia relations and the friendship between the two peoples. The Chinese ambassador expressed confidence that these vaccines will contribute to the protection of peoples lives and the fight against the pandemic in Mongolia. Mongolia is planning to vaccinate at least  percent of its . million people, or all adults in the country, against the coronavirus, with  percent of them to be vaccinated under COVAX, a global initiative to ensure quick and equal access to vaccines against the virus, according to the countrys health ministry. The Asian country is expected to launch a nationwide COVID vaccination campaign on Tuesday. As of Monday, the country recorded , COVID cases, with six deaths.