US to ease foreign traveler restrictions Nov
2021-10-26 03:51
US President Joe Biden. PhotoAgencies    International travelers, including those fully vaccinated with Chinas Sinopharm and Sinovac vaccines, can resume air travel to the United States starting Nov  with proof of vaccination before boarding and a negative coronavirus test taken within three days. The stipulation is part of the US guidance released Monday detailing how international air travelers can prepare for the lifting of a travel ban imposed in early  on most nonUS citizens from  countries, including China, the United Kingdom, the  Schengen countries in Europe, Ireland, India, South Africa, Iran and Brazil. US President Joe Biden on Monday signed an order imposing new vaccine requirements for most foreign national air travelers and lifting strict travel restrictions on those countries effective in two weeks. For purposes of entry into the United States, vaccines will be accepted that include the FDA approved or authorized and WHO Emergency Use Listed vaccines, a senior Biden administration official told reporters Monday. The vaccines approved for regular or emergency use by the US Food and Drug Administration and the World Health Organization include Pfizer, Moderna, Johnson  Johnson, AstraZeneca and Chinas Sinopharm and Sinovac. For unvaccinated air passengers, including unvaccinated US citizens and lawful permanent residents, the new policy will now require a test within one day before flying to the US, according to the official. There will be very limited exceptions to the vaccination requirements for nonUS citizens who are not immigrants, including for children under  and people with a compelling reason to travel from about  countries with nationwide vaccination rates of less than  percent due to a lack of vaccines, he said. Children under  years old do not need to test, he added. International air passengers to the US also will be required to provide information such as US addresses, email and phone numbers to airlines before boarding flights, which will be retained for  days in case public health officials need to follow up with travelers who have been exposed to COVID variants or other pathogens, according to an order issued by the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention on Monday. Tori Emerson Barnes, executive vicepresident of the US Travel Association, said Mondays new policy provides muchneeded clarity for planning and it looks forward to similar guidance in coming days for those qualified visitors who plan to travel across the US northern and southern land borders. The association did not reply to a China Daily request for comment on the new policys impact on USChina air traffic flows. Travel has been the top US services export to China, which remains the thirdlargest source of overseas travel to the United States, and the  million Chinese visitations in  accounted for . percent of overseas travel to the US, according to data posted on the associations website. International passenger fares by Chinese flying on US airlines alone totaled . billion, or  percent of US travel exports to China in , according to the US Department of Commerce. But in , business travel by Chinese fell by around  percent to . billion, and personal travel declined by a little over  percent to . billion, possibly due to visa slowdowns and general wariness of traveling to the US amid bilateral tensions, noted the  State Export Report released by the USChina Business Council. The  data do not include the COVID pandemics effects on the travel industry, and it is highly likely that the  data will show that travel exports from US states declined even further that year, according to the report. Perry Flint, head of corporate communications USA for the International Air Transport Association IATA said the IATA welcomed the new US policy. We hope that this last category of exemption will include those who have been separated from families and loved ones for up to  months owing to travel restrictions, Flint told China Daily in an email. The global airline industry is recovering gradually from COVID but revenue passenger kilometers  RPKs, or the number of revenue passengers carried multiplied by the distance flown  are still estimated to be only  percent of precrisis levels in , according to the IATA. A return to profitability will be delayed another year, and with gradual recovery,  will be another year of loss, according to the IATA Economics Airline Industry Financial Forecast October update. After deep losses in , US passenger airlines logged . billion in pretax losses in the first half of , which would have been far worse without federal payroll support, according to Airlines for America, a trade group for US passenger and cargo airlines industry. The US aviation industry already has seen the impact of the relaxation of air travel restrictions, which it anticipates will help revive a sector hobbled by the COVID pandemic. We have seen an increase in ticket sales for international travel over the past weeks, and are eager to begin safely reuniting the countless families, friends and colleagues who have not seen each other in nearly two years, if not longer, the Airlines for America said in a statement. In September, USinternational air travel fell  percent below  levels, with air travel volume from China plunging by  percent, according to the trade group. Last week, US domestic air travel volumes were  percent below the prepandemic levels, while international air travel shrank by  percent, the trade association said in its Emerging From the Pandemic report updated on Monday.