Italys Draghi sets out plan to rebuild virushit nation
2021-02-19 09:08
Italys new Prime Minister Mario Draghi sits in his place at the Lower House of Montecitorio before submitting his government to a vote of confidence, in Rome on February , . PhotoAgencies    Italys new Prime Minister Mario Draghi has prioritized COVID vaccine distribution and promised sweeping reforms to revitalize the nations battered economy in his first speech to parliament. Ahead of a confidence vote he easily won, the former European Central Bank chief said his government would be more sustainable, environmentally conscious, staunchly proEuropean and oriented toward technological and digital reforms, according to the Associated Press news agency. Draghi said Italy, which is the European Unions thirdlargest economy, was in its worst recession since World War II, and that policy aimed at boosting economic growth would be promptly enacted. He said this would include overhauling the public administration, taxation and justice systems. Today we have, as did the governments of the immediate postwar period, the possibility, or rather the responsibility, to launch a new reconstruction, Draghi told the Senate. His government of national unity was formed at the request of Italian President Sergio Mattarella to steer the nation through the health and economic crises. It replaces the previous coalition that folded amid differences over recovery plans. News site Politico noted that Draghi takes power with the largest majority since World War II, with support from parties ranging from the leftist Free and Equal Party to the farright League. League leader Matteo Salvini, an opponent of European integration, said his party was willing to cooperate, for now. Unity is a duty In his speech, Draghi called on Italys polarized politicians to pull together to help rebuild the country.Today unity isnt an option, its a duty, he said. His cabinet would seek greater EU integration, Draghi said. Supporting this government means sharing the view that the decision on the euro is irreversible, sharing the vision of an increasingly integrated European Union, moving toward a common budget capable of supporting countries in times of recession, he said. He pledged to speed up the countrys novel coronavirus vaccination program, saying the governments first duty was to fight the pandemic by all means and safeguard the lives of citizens. Italy has recorded more than , deaths from COVID, the secondhighest toll in Europe after the United Kingdom. There would also be focus on plans for how to spend more than  billion of EU funds aimed at rebuilding the economy, he said. Reuters said technocrat Draghi is among Europes most respected figures after his eightyear leadership of the ECB. It noted that his nomination as prime minister has been hailed by investors, as reflected in Italian bond sales on Tuesday that drew record demand.