Climate key to USChina cooperation
2021-02-19 07:43
A wind turbine system generates energy in Northwest Chinas Xinjiang Uygur autonomous region. PhotoXinhua    Potential for nations to work together can take in other issues, experts say Environmental experts and policymakers said that climate change remains a constructive part of the USChina relationship, despite tensions in other sectors, and the worlds two largest emitters of greenhouse gases should seize the opportunity to cooperate. By doing so, the two countries can also discover ways to manage their competition in this area, they said. Its in the US interest to work with China on a range of global issues, and I think thats not obvious to many people, and that ranges from global health to nuclear security, and I think no issue is more important than climate change, said Joanna Lewis, director of Georgetown Universitys science, technology and international affairs program. Lewis told an audience at a Feb  webinar hosted by the CaliforniaChina Climate Institute, or CCCI, that the appointments by the administration of US President Joe Biden of top climate officials with experience working with China are extremely important signals. She noted that these officials had forged relationships with their Chinese counterparts. In a similar vein, Chinas reappointment of Xie Zhenhua, a key contributor to USChina climate talks, as the countrys special envoy on climate change is a move that demonstrates Chinas readiness to open a channel of communication with the US on this issue, Lewis said. Xie and John Kerry, former secretary of state and now Bidens special envoy on climate, had both worked on the  USChina climate change deal that helped broker the  Paris Agreement. Climate could be a constructive part of the USChina relationship, even when other aspects of the relationships are strained, Lewis said. At a news conference on Jan , Kerry said the US would work with China on climate change as a critical standalone issue, but the US will never trade other concerns for climate cooperation. In response, Chinas Foreign Ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian warned that climate change cooperation with the US cant be separated from the broader bilateral relationship. Lewis acknowledged there are concerns in Washington that the US would give in to China on some issues in order to gain a win on the climate. I think the idea that you cannot work on one issue without compromising on others is a false premise, and one that I dont even believe that China would fully agree with. I think that Xies appointment is a clear signal of Chinas readiness to engage, she added. Zou Ji, CEO and president of Energy Foundation China, said the USChina climate cooperation could restore the worlds trust in multilateralism, especially given the Trump administrations withdrawal from the Paris accord and the rise of populism. We should tell the whole world now the US is coming back, Zou said. In China, we also see the momentum after President Xi Jinping announced the carbon neutrality target. And then as the two largest countries, we can show the world by our efforts the necessary political track is still there for working together of the whole world. Carbon neutrality David Sandalow, an inaugural fellow at Columbia Universitys Center on Global Energy Policy, said the pledge from Xi that China will achieve carbon neutrality by  is significant in part because it gives the climate change and clean energy issue a seat at the table in all Chinese decisionmaking. Going forward, whenever a policy is decided, whenever a permitting decision is made, whenever funding decisions are made, it will be possible within the system to say, to ask the question, does this advance Xis carbon neutrality goal? Sandalow said. Former California governor Jerry Brown delivered the opening remarks during the discussion titled Climate Competition Cooperation with China under a BidenHarris administration. We are looking at competition and cooperation between the US and China, given the new administration of Joe Biden. This is a very opportune moment in the history of bilateral relations, and its a very opportune moment in the history of humankind, he said. Brown, who is also the chair of the CCCI, compared climate change with the challenge posed by COVID, both of which required international collaboration to tackle. Even the program here has listed competition and cooperation. Well, if we could compete to provide better vaccines, great if we can compete to provide better electric batteries, and better renewable energy resources, and better manufacturing and materials productions, so we get to zero emissions just as quickly as we can, that would be great, he said.