ChinaEU trade booms despite headwinds, a boon for many firms
2021-02-18 16:23
A reach stacker handles cargo containers at the Manzhouli Railway Station in Manzhouli, North Chinas Inner Mongolia autonomous region, on July , . PhotoXinhua    BRUSSELSBERLIN  Many companies in the European Union EU and China were pleased to see EUChina bilateral trade boom in   a year that was marred by lockdowns and industrial disruptions due to the restrictive measures put in place to curb the spread of COVID. Eurostat, the statistical office of the EU, said on Monday that China became the EUs main trading partner last year, overtaking the United States. The blocs imports from China in  grew by . percent yearonyear to . billion euros  billion, and exports increased by . percent to . billion euros. Meanwhile, the EUs trade with the US saw a substantial decline both ways, according to Eurostat. Given the overall slump in global trade amid the still raging pandemic, the dynamic growth in ChinaEU trade can indeed be considered a hardwon victory, which was partially due to the two sides robust cooperation to contain the COVID pandemic. On Feb , the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development UNCTAD said in its quarterly Global Trade Update that global trade in  tumbled by about nine percent from a year ago. BENEFITS OF TRADE European companies, especially from the automotive industry and luxury industry, benefit currently from the recovery of the Chinese market, said Jost Wuebbeke, director at Sinolytics, a Berlinbased consultancy specializing in China and with a particular focus on Chinas technological and digital transformation. According to Wuebbeke, there have been two trends for the continuous development of trade volume. On one hand, Chinas recovery in the second quarter of  created a stable demand for European products, especially in automotive and luxury goods. On the other hand, the extended lockdown in Europe created a huge demand for electronics, entertainment and health care goods, many of which are manufactured in China, he said. China remains an important destination for German exporters of machinery, vehicles and auto parts, electronic devices and chemicals. Wuebbeke believed that the growth potential of the Chinese market is still enormous. Trade is a source of economic growth, commented Claudia Vernotti, Cofounder and Director of ChinaEU, a forum to foster business cooperation in digitization processes and hitech fields by European and Chinese companies. As main European countries entered a series of consecutive lockdowns, Europeans could count on China for the supply of electronics and health care goods, she noted. For demand to grow worldwide, what is desperately needed is the return to normal economic activities, something which can only be guaranteed by a wide and prompt distribution of vaccines all over the world, Vernotti said. Hanna Lauren, director of trade policy at the Confederation of Finnish Industries EK, said the news about the rising trade volumes between the EU and China was expected as the Chinese economy had recovered fast from COVID and there was demand in the country for European goods, while Europe was importing exceptionally large amounts of Chinese health sector supplies to combat the pandemic. China was the only major economy in the world that registered a . percent growth in gross domestic product GDP in , while the global economy suffered a contraction of around . percent, according to the International Monetary Fund IMF. GOOD PROSPECTS WITH CAI Serbian economist Goran Nikolic wrote in an article for the website of Serbias public broadcaster RTS that China became the largest export market for the EU during , and at the very end of , additional support ... was the conclusion of negotiations of the CAI Comprehensive Agreement on Investment with the EU, despite Washingtons efforts to thwart it. This deal is expected to further strengthen the already strong cooperation between the two economic giants, Nikolic wrote. Bernard Dewit, chairman of the BelgianChinese Chamber of Commerce, commented that these encouraging developments demonstrated the importance of keeping the momentum going. We should continue to have a strong trade relationship with China, said Dewit. China is a booming economy in the world, and its in the interest of the EU and the EU companies to have close trade relations with China. The conclusion of seven years of negotiations for the CAI in December provided a further  and major  economic boost. Describing the agreement as a big step forward, Dewit said the compromise reached between the two sides is a good sign, although the draft document is yet to be approved by the European Parliament and the EU member states national legislatures. Dewit said that it is necessary for the worlds two largest markets  China with a population of . billion and the member EU with  million  to seek to improve their economic ties. I think its in the interest of both parties to improve, to further exchange, to negotiate eventually new common grounds for the benefit of both parties, and in the end, the world. Markku Lehmus, head of forecasting at the Research Institute of the Finnish Economy ETLA, said that the future trade relationship between the EU and China partly depends on how the EU will be able to do the balancing act with a view to the USChina relationship. Lehmus added that with the CAI, EU businesses will be better equipped for the future.  euro  .