US govt seizes roughly M phony N masks in COVID probe
2021-02-18 04:37
Masks are produced at United Safety Tech, a startup that is poised to open a new N mask factory in La Verne, California, US, January , . Picture taken January , . PhotoAgencies    WASHINGTON  Federal agents have seized roughly  million fake M brand N masks in recent weeks, the result of an ongoing investigation into counterfeits sold in at least five states to hospitals, medical facilities and government agencies. The most recent seizures occurred Wednesday when Homeland Security agents intercepted hundreds of thousands of counterfeit M masks in an East Coast warehouse that were set to be distributed, officials said. Investigators also notified about , potential victims in at least  states including hospitals, medical facilities and others who may have unknowingly purchased knockoffs, urging them to stop using the medicalgrade masks. Officials encouraged medical workers and companies to go to Ms website for tips on how to spot fakes. The phony masks are not tested to see whether they meet strict N standards and could put frontline medical workers at risk if they are used while treating patients with COVID. Nearly a year into the pandemic, fraud remains a major problem as scammers seek to exploit hospitals and desperate Americans. Federal investigators say they have seen an increase in phony websites purporting to sell vaccines as well as fake medicine produced overseas and scams involving personal protective equipment. The schemes deliver phony products, unlike earlier in the pandemic when fraudsters focused more on fleecing customers. M, based in Maplewood, Minnesota, is among the largest global producers of the N mask, which has been approved by the U.S. National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health. It is considered the gold standard in protection against the coronavirus. The company delivered some  billion N masks in  as the pandemic intensified, but in the earlier months, when masks were in short supply, fraudsters took advantage. So far during the pandemic Homeland Security Investigations has used its , agents, along with border officials, the Food and Drug Administration and the FBI, to investigate the scams, seizing  million in phony products and arresting more than  people. The effort is based at the National Intellectual Property Rights Coordination Center, a government watchdog aimed at enforcing international trade laws and combating intellectual property theft. Over the past two weeks, federal agents have executed search warrants and seized masks in five different states, and more action is expected. But phony masks have already made it to frontline workers in other cases. M has been dealing with increasing instances of fraud. Over the past year there has been more than , raids by law enforcement resulting in the seizure of millions of fake masks. The company has filed more than a dozen lawsuits over reports of fraud, counterfeiting and price gouging. Agencies via Xinhua