Japan begins COVID vaccinations, medical workers first to receive jabs
2021-02-17 16:34
A medical worker receives a dose of the coronavirus disease COVID vaccine as Japan launches its inoculation campaign, at Tokyo Medical Center in Tokyo, Japan Feb , . PhotoAgencies    TOKYO  Japan on Wednesday began administering its first COVID vaccinations to medical workers, with the first inoculations using the vaccine developed by US pharmaceutical firm Pfizer and German partner BioNTech taking place at the National Hospital Organization Tokyo Medical Center. Around , medical workers will receive the first jabs, double the number initially planned, with  of around  workers at the medical center in the capital first to be vaccinated on Wednesday and reporting no immediate side effects. Of the , medical workers at  facilities nationwide, , doctors and nurses will be asked to maintain records on a daily basis for seven weeks after taking the first of two shots which will be administered three weeks apart. The survey is in a bid to determine if there are any adverse effects from the jabs and other related information. Head of the National Hospital Organization Tokyo Medical Center Kazuhiro Araki said he hopes those participating in the study will help both staff and patients prevent infections. Araki himself was the first person to receive the vaccine. Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga, meanwhile, told a parliamentary committee meeting that the vaccines were essential in the nations bid to tackle the novel coronavirus pandemic. The vaccines will be the decisive factor in fighting the coronavirus, Suga said, adding that he would continue to push forward with the rollout while keeping the public informed. Following the initial round of medical workers being inoculated, in March, around . million health workers will also begin receiving the vaccine, followed by  million people aged  or older from April. A second shipment of the Pfizer vaccine is scheduled to arrive from Europe next week, Japans minister in charge of vaccination efforts Taro Kono said the previous day, to ensure there are enough doses to vaccinate the elderly in Japans rapidly aging society. Following the elderly, those with preexisting conditions and those working at elderly care facilities will be next in line to be vaccinated, followed by the rest of the population. A batch of around , doses of the PfizerBioNTech vaccine arrived last Friday at Narita airport near Tokyo from Brussels, with a health ministry panel greenlighting the use of the vaccine amid the ongoing pandemic here, which is weighing heavily on the countrys medical system. Japans Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare, thereafter, fasttracked and formally approved the countrys first vaccine on Sunday for people aged  or older. I hope many people will take the vaccine with an understanding of the benefits and risks, Kono said.