Hopes travel far on plans for jabs pass
2021-02-17 08:20
A woman receives a dose of the Chinese Sinopharm vaccine as the country begins mass vaccination for the coronavirus disease COVID, in Belgrade, Serbia, Jan , . PhotoAgencies    Moves for digital proof of vaccination gather pace, with airlines leading push Governments and airlines worldwide may soon require a socalled vaccine passport that proves a person has been given a COVID vaccination before being allowed to fly or get access to essential services. The US government is looking at such a proposal after President Joe Biden recently signed an executive order asking government agencies if it is possible to link a coronavirus vaccine certificate to a digital database. It isnt just governments and airlines that are interested in implementing such a type of program. So are cruise ships, travel companies, sponsors of live events and many others. Privacy advocates, however, fear that giving airlines or governments details about a persons health could breach an individuals privacy. They also fear it will penalize people in countries without widespread access to vaccinations. Privacy International, a Britishbased group that defends peoples privacy from companies and governments, has warned Until everyone has access to an effective vaccine, any system requiring a vaccine passport for entry or service will be unfair. Nevertheless, various forms of a digital vaccination record or some other types of proof that a person has been vaccinated are either being used or are underway. Denmark plans to devise a scheme using a digital passport to show that a person has received a vaccine. Etihad Airways and Emirates will soon start using a digital travel pass app that was developed by the International Air Transport Association, or IATA, to show a traveler has been vaccinated, according to The New York Times. Nick Careen, IATAs senior vicepresident for its airport, passenger, cargo and security division, said in a statement This is the first step in making international travel during the pandemic as convenient as possible, giving people the confidence that they are meeting all COVID entry requirements by governments. Most governments would like to see a universal approach to a digital passport, as many countries want to see a negative test before a person is cleared for entry. But several companies in a host of different countries are developing their own vaccine passports. In the US, computer firm IBM is developing a digital health pass that would show if a person has been vaccinated in order to gain access to a workplace and other venues. A coalition of health and technology firms has launched the Vaccination Credential Initiative to show proof of vaccinations. A digital pass dubbed CommonPass is under joint development by the World Economic Forum, the Commons Project, the Rockefeller Foundation and  publicand privatesector leaders from  countries. In the United Kingdom, technology companies iProov and Mvine are testing a vaccine passport app, Bloomberg reports. Companies staging events, shows and plays may soon demand to see a negative test before allowing people to attend. Ticketmaster, which sells tickets to live events, is considering linking a purchasers ticket to their digital vaccine records. In New York, the hardhit theater district of Broadway could soon reopen with smaller audiences and requirements that everyone in attendance provide a negative COVID test. But as the need grows, scammers are already finding a way around it. The European Union said it has reported seeing more fake negative tests.