Japanese GDP shrinks . over year
2021-02-16 14:35
A customer is seen at Laox flagship store amid the coronavirus disease outbreak, at Akihabara district in Tokyo, Japan, Feb , . PhotoAgencies    TOKYOJapans pandemichit economy shrank in  for the first time in more than a decade, but the contraction was less than expected and it ended the year on a strong note thanks to a pickup in exports and huge government support. Still, analysts warned the nearterm outlook could be bumpy as fresh virus restrictions dampen domestic consumption. Borders are still closed to tourists less than six months before the oncepostponed Olympics. The worlds thirdlargest economy shrank . percent last year, its first annual contraction since  at the height of the global financial crisis. The figure was better than forecast in a Bloomberg survey of analysts thanks to a strong OctoberDecember performance, which saw the economy expand . percent from the previous quarter on an annualized basis. Government stimulus measures of about  trillion since the COVID pandemic began provided crucial support. The news helped send Tokyos Nikkei  index rallying more than  percent to break , for the first time in more than three decades. Shahana Mukherjee, an economist at Moodys Analytics, said betterthanexpected growth in the fourth quarter was driven by Japans resilient trade position with exports up and a smaller rise in private consumption. The intense domestic third COVID wave moderated Japans recovery momentum in the last months of , she said. But with exports continuing to recover and the Pfizer vaccine approval coming through, the months ahead should see a stronger revival, Mukherjee added. Like other countries, Japan was plunged into a steep recession at the start of suffering its worst second quarter on recordas virus containment measures throttled economic activity. A  consumption tax added to the weakness. A slowdown in new cases allowed business to bounce back in the second half, with domestic demand and net exports contributing to the improvement, the cabinet office said. However, infections began surging to new records in late December, prompting the government to impose a fresh virus state of emergency in much of the country including Tokyo and Osaka. While the longterm outlook is positive, there was a warning for the start of . A decline in GDP appears unavoidable in Q  due to the state of emergency declared by the government in a number of Japanese prefectures, Naoya Oshikubo, senior economist at SuMi Trust, said in a note published ahead of Mondays figure. Japans virus measures are limited, with bars and restaurants requested but not obliged to close by  pm while working from home is strongly recommended. There are no blanket stayathome orders. Agencies Via Xinhua