Japan to begin administering st COVID vaccinations on Wednesday
2021-02-15 22:26
A participant pretending to receive coronavirus disease vaccine shot makes a facial expression during a mock inoculation exercise ahead of COVID vaccination campaign at a college gym in Kawasaki, south of Tokyo on Jan , . PhotoAgencies    TOKYO  Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga said on Monday that the countrys first COVID vaccinations will begin here on Wednesday with frontline medical workers being given first priority for the jabs. Speaking at a lower house budget committee meeting, Suga said the government will make every effort to deliver safe and effective vaccines to people as quickly as possible. On Friday, the vaccine produced by US pharmaceutical giant Pfizer and Germanys BioNTech, was given approval to be used in Japan by a health ministry panel. A batch of around , doses arrived at Narita airport near Tokyo from Brussels on Friday. Japans Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare, thereafter, formally approved the countrys first vaccine on Sunday for people aged  or older. The government has arranged for around , freezers to be in place across the country, as the PfizerBioNTech vaccine needs to be stored at a temperature of minus  degrees Celsius. The Japanese government said it aims to start administering jabs to around , medical staff from Wednesday this week. Those doctors and nurses have agreed to be monitored for potential side effects, with the first jabs to be administered in Tokyo before being introduced in other prefectures. Those being inoculated will receive an initial dose and a followup jab three weeks later, the health ministry said. In March, around . million health workers will begin receiving the vaccine, followed by  million people aged  or older, possibly from April. Following the elderly, those with preexisting conditions and those working at elderly care facilities will be next in line to be vaccinated, followed by the rest of the population. Deals have been inked by the Japanese government with Pfizer, AstraZeneca Plc. and Moderna Inc. to receive enough doses to vaccinate Japans population of  million against the novel coronavirus. As for the PfizerBioNTech vaccine specifically, Pfizer has agreed to supply Japan with enough doses for  million people by the end of the year.