Canada sees steady decline of COVID cases, variants increase
2021-02-14 08:11
A passenger arrives at Torontos Pearson airport after mandatory coronavirus disease COVID testing took effect for international arrivals in Mississauga, Ontario, Canada Feb , . PhotoAgencies    OTTAWA  Canada reported a total of , COVID cases and , deaths as of Saturday afternoon, according to CTV. From routine national surveillance data, Canada is observing a steady decline in COVID activity. Currently, there are , active cases across the country, according to the Public Health Agency of Canada on Saturday. The latest nationallevel data show a continued downward trend in daily case counts, with a day average of , new cases daily Feb  said the agency. Now, much of Canada is lifting lockdown measures and reopening risky indoor settings while experts warn fastspreading coronavirus variants threaten to jeopardize recent progress and trigger a third wave of COVID. Infectious disease experts have sounded alarm bells of an approaching third wave expected to be driven by more contagious variants of the virus in Canada. Theresa Tam, Canadas chief public health officer, said in a statement on Saturday that nine provinces had reported coronavirus variants as of Friday. As of Friday, Canada reported  cases of the variant first identified in Britain,  cases of the variant first identified in South Africa, and one of the variant first found in Brazil. Although it is normal for variants to emerge as viruses continuously evolve, some variants are considered variants of concern because they spread more easily, some may cause more severe illness, or current vaccines may be less effective against them, Tam said in the statement. This is why we need to maintain the strictest vigilance in our public health measures and individual practices. This will help to prevent these variants from reaccelerating the epidemic and making it much more difficult to control, Tam added. Ontario confirmed , new COVID cases and  more deaths on Saturday. The provinces sevenday average for the number of cases recorded is now ,, down from , one week ago. Saturdays case count brings the total number of labconfirmed cases in Ontario to ,, including deaths and recoveries. The province confirmed there were  cases of the British variant, also known as B..., and three cases of the South African variant, also known as B.., one case of the Brazil variant, also known as P. as of Saturday. This past week, experts, who presented the provinces most recent modeling data, warned that the COVID variants could lead to a possible third wave of the disease. A total of , people in Ontario have received both doses of the COVID vaccine and are now fully vaccinated against the disease. Meanwhile, Quebec reported , new cases on Saturday, bringing the total number of cases to ,. The province also confirmed  additional deaths, raising fatalities to ,. To date, , doses of vaccine have been administered in the province.