Xis commitment to European ties hailed
2021-02-11 08:14
President Xi Jinping chairs the ChinaCentral and Eastern European Countries CEEC Summit and delivers a keynote speech via video link in Beijing, capital of China, Feb , . PhotoXinhua    Fighting COVID, working on green society seen as positive signal to world Chinas commitment to strengthen winwin cooperation with Central and Eastern European countries, known as the CEEC, in areas of tackling the COVID pandemic, improving infrastructure and interconnectivity, as well as purchasing green development, has been highly commended by global experts. President Xi Jinping delivered a keynote speech via video link at the Summit of China and Central and Eastern European Countries in Beijing on Tuesday, calling for the countries to draw a new blueprint for ChinaCEEC cooperation under the new circumstances. The speech is held in the spirit of a closer cooperation in many fields and sectors on the basis of reciprocity and mutual respect but also taken into account shared opportunities and inclusion, said Jochum Haakma, chairman of EUChina Business Association. Haakma said close cooperation in fighting COVID together and sharing medical assistance, vaccines and expertise as well as the call for a greener and sustainable society in the framework and spirit of the climate goals of the Paris Climate Conference goes beyond a political regional goal and gives a positive signal to the world at large. Bernard Dewit, chairman of the BelgianChinese Chamber of Commerce, said I have been stricken by his show of solidarity with EU countries and his concrete proposals of cooperation in helping CEE countries to further develop their economies. The conclusion of his speech looks to me also very important when he emphasizes that China will continue its efforts to foster a business environment based on market principles and governed by law, he added. Remarkable statistic President Xi chose the ChinaCEEC Summit to reinforce the track record of ChinaCEEC cooperation which has witnessed a staggering  percent increase in trade volumes for European countries. This statistic is remarkable given the nine years of official trade relations between CEEC and China, added Christopher Bovis, a professor of international business law at the University of Hull in the United Kingdom. Bovis pointed out that it is also worth mentioning the strategic cooperation against the backdrop of the Belt and Road Initiative in delivering infrastructure projects, such as the Port of Piraeus in Greece, the BudapestBelgrade Railway, the Smederevo Steel Plant in Serbia and the Peljesac Bridge in Croatia. Chris Rudd, deputy vice chancellor and head of the Singapore campus for Australias James Cook University, said This really is winwin and there is strong resonance with Chinas economic reemergence in several member states in the CEE bloc. Rudd added that he is struck by the mature recognition of the key role of trade corridors and the need for longterm infrastructure planning in order to secure sustainable economic relations with ones neighbors. Luigi Gambardella, president of nonprofit international association ChinaEU, said Many observers were waiting with interest to hear the content of the speech because it is the first speech after the signature of the CAI EUChina Comprehensive Agreement on Investment, that will apply to most of the CEE countries. Once approved, the CAI will further boost Belt and Road cooperative projects in these countries.