Cambodia begins COVID vaccination drive with Chinese jabs
2021-02-10 15:03
A woman receives a vaccine as Cambodia starts its coronavirus disease COVID vaccine rollout with , doses of Sinopharm vaccine donated by China in Phnom Penh, Cambodia, Feb , . PhotoAgencies    PHNOM PENH  Cambodia launched a COVID vaccination campaign on Wednesday here in four hospitals after receiving a donation of Sinopharm vaccines from China on Sunday. Hun Manet, the eldest son of Cambodian Prime Minister Samdech Techo Hun Sen, got the first dose of the jab at the Calmette Hospital in the capital Phnom Penh as the drive started at  am local time. Hun Sen said on his official Facebook page, Finally Cambodia began officially the vaccination program for its people. This is the result of fruitful cooperation between Cambodia and China, the ironclad friends. Ministry of Health secretary of state and spokeswoman Or Vandine said health authorities will initially vaccinate priority groups including frontline health workers, government officials, armed forces, and journalists, among others, at four hospitals in Phnom Penh. This vaccine is safe and highly effective, and Id like to encourage people to receive it because it will protect us, our family and the community from COVID, she told reporters after receiving the shot of the vaccine. The spokeswoman added that each individual has to be given two doses of the vaccine around  to  days apart. Id like to express my profound thanks to China for providing the humanitarian aid of COVID to Cambodia. This vaccine has greatly contributed to protecting Cambodian people and preventing the spread of COVID in our community, she added. The spokeswoman said that after getting the first dose of COVID vaccine, the recipients would be observed for  minutes in the hospital. The Southeast Asian nation has done well in containing the spread of COVID. The kingdom has so far registered a total of  confirmed COVID cases, with zero deaths and  recoveries, according to the Ministry of Health.