Turning point in history
2021-02-10 07:48
SONG CHENCHINA DAILY    The choices we make now will set humanity on a new journey The year  marks an extraordinary turning point in human history. The COVID pandemic has been intertwined with volatile uncertainties unseen in a century, transforming the whole world and reshaping the future of humanity. Since the pandemic outbreak, global governance has entered a dark moment. The multilateral system, with the United Nations at its core, has taken a hard hit from unilateralism, with free trade undermined by protectionism. The authority of the World Health Organization has been under attack. The role of the World Trade Organization has been denied. The development of humanity needs multilateralism, which is an inspiration and legacy from the end of World War II. However, given that there is a tugofwar between unilateralism and multilateralism, the choices we make now will define our future. To turn crisis into opportunity, we must put people and life first. In the face of global challenges, we must choose people over profitability, and science over politics. Humanity progresses through innovation and cooperation. No country can make itself great by creating problems for others. Those who stifle innovation and hinder the great trend of cooperation will eventually be left behind by the times. This year not only marks the beginning of a new decade, but also a starting point to meet challenges with innovative ideas and promote reforms with renewed actions. We must stand on the side of history and embark on a new journey to rebuild a world that is more resilient, united and cooperative. Global collaboration to respond to the pandemic is the top priority. Vaccines are the ultimate weapon to fight the pandemic. The most urgent issue currently is to put aside vaccine nationalism and ensure equitable access for all. China is delivering its pledge to make its vaccines a global public good. Chinese vaccines are clinically proven to be safe and effective. Some do not require ultralow temperature storage and cold chain transportation, which makes them accessible to and affordable for more people. Chinese vaccine aid has been provided to  developing countries, and will soon reach  more. At the request of the WHO, China will deliver  million doses of Chinese vaccines to COVAX for urgent use of developing countries. Chinese vaccine manufacturers are carrying out joint vaccine RD and production with foreign partners. More African and developing countries are expected to benefit from Chinese vaccines. Economic reconstruction is a key step going forward. We need to focus on both immediate relief and longterm resilience building, and deliver the goals set out in the  Agenda for Sustainable Development. Despite the impact of the epidemic, China has fulfilled its commitment to poverty alleviation under the current standards by , and successfully attained its sustainable development goal for poverty alleviation  years ahead of schedule. Chinas economy has bounced back to growth. Chinas GDP growth rate in  was . percent, making it the only major economy to register positive growth. China relieved the debt of developing countries by . billion, the biggest debt relief among the G countries. China signed the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership Agreement, with imports set to reach  trillion over the next decade. China has stepped up its efforts to build a highquality Belt and Road Initiative. The accumulated funding commitment of the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank has increased from . billion to over  billion, with the number of approved projects expanded from eight to . Chinas higher level of economic openness and higher quality growth is in itself a contribution to the world economy and offers great opportunities for the shared prosperity of all countries. Greener reconstruction is an inevitable choice. The pandemic somehow alerted us to an adjusted relationship between man and nature. It also offers us an opportunity for green recovery in the postpandemic era, in which addressing climate change and protecting biodiversity must be prioritized. All countries should take concrete actions to implement the Paris Agreement and make joint efforts to achieve a substantive outcome at the rescheduled th Conference of the Parties COP  to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change due to be held in November. China will make every effort to implement the th FiveYear Plan  and strive to peak CO emissions before  and reach carbon neutrality before . China is ready to work with all countries and make the th Conference of the Parties to the Convention on Biological Diversity COP , to be held in Yunnan province this year, a successful event that will contribute to the efforts to conserve biodiversity. Continued efforts to improve global governance are the longterm solution. The role of the UN in leading international cooperation must be reenforced. According to the latest UN survey,  percent of respondents worldwide believe that international cooperation is essential to address global challenges such as COVID, and  percent acknowledged the UNs essential role. President Xi Jinping offered a vision and set out the goal to improve global governance in his recent speech at the World Economic Forum virtual event of the Davos Agenda in January. We should take action to withstand this unprecedented test. Countries should uphold the principle of achieving shared growth through extensive consultation and collaboration to ensure that all countries enjoy equal rights and opportunities and follow the same set of rules. The global governance system should adapt to the changing dynamics, meet global challenges, and embrace the underlying trend of peace, development and winwin cooperation. This year marks the th anniversary of Chinas restoration of its legal seat in the United Nations. Over the past  years, China has achieved rapid development through reform and openingup, as the world has moved forward together with Chinas development. Standing at the new starting point, China will stay true to its core mission and continue marching forward. China will uphold the principle that there is only one system and one set of rules in the world by safeguarding the international system with the United Nations at its core, and it is the basic norms of international relations with UN Charter as its cornerstone. And China will join hands with all other countries to build a community with a shared future for mankind. The author is the ambassador and the permanent representative of China to the United Nations. The author contributed this article to China Watch, a think tank powered by China Daily. The views do not necessarily reflect those of China Daily.