Singleshot CanSino vaccine also stands out for being easier to store
2021-02-10 07:39
Small bottles labeled with a Vaccine COVID sticker and a medical syringe are seen in this illustration taken taken April , . PhotoAgencies    The COVID vaccine candidate manufactured by Chinese firm CanSino Biologics has an overall efficacy rate of . percent at preventing symptomatic cases and is . percent effective in preventing severe disease with a single injection, according to multinational interim analysis of the vaccines latestage human trials. Experts called the results encouraging because the vaccine is one of the few requiring a single shot, is easy to store and is generally safe, even for the elderly. Having a potent oneshot vaccine also means more countries can carry out a wider, more affordable rollout strategy compared with those that require two shots and deepfreezing logistics, they added. On Monday, Faisal Sultan, special assistant to the Pakistani prime minister on health, announced the interim results of CanSinos AdnCoV adenoviral vector vaccine analyzed by an independent committee of experts. In the Pakistani subset, efficacy in preventing symptomatic cases is . percent and  percent in preventing severe disease. The data included , participants and no serious safety concerns were reported, he said. The vaccine is also in phase human trials in Russia, Mexico, Argentina and Chile. One vaccine, single visit and cheaper logistics, it has all those advantages, Sultan told Bloomberg on Tuesday. The single shot is an important factor. Certainly, when you ask people to show up for a second shot three weeks later, people will not show up, forget or not care. The AdnCoV vaccine is jointly developed by researchers from CanSino Biologics and the Academy of Military Medical Sciences. It is the third vaccine candidate manufactured by Chinese firms to release phase clinical results. The two others were inactivated vaccines produced by Sinovac and Sinopharm, and both have been approved for use in numerous countries. A majority of the leading COVID vaccine candidates, including those produced by Sinovac, Sinopharm, Pfizer, Novavax, Moderna, AstraZeneca and Russias Gamaleya Center, require two injections with an interval of at least weeks. Some of these candidates also need to be kept in special freezers at a temperature of minus  C. In comparison, CanSinos vaccine is effective with a single dose and can induce neutralizing antibodies against SARSCoV, the virus that causes COVID, as well as Tcell immune responses that target infected cells, according to phase clinical trial results published in the medical journal The Lancet. The vaccine can be stored at between  to  C for months, making it easier for distribution and inoculation in developing countries. In addition, phase and  clinical trials of the AdnCoV vaccine were conducted on volunteers age  and above, including many above the age of . The vaccine was found to be well tolerated and generally safe for the elderly, the journal said. The other singledose COVID vaccine candidate in late stage clinical trials that released data is the Janssen vaccine by Johnson Johnson. Like the CanSino vaccine, the Janssen vaccine uses a genetically modified adenovirus as a vehicle to carry an antigen from SARSCoV into cells to induce an immune response. It was reported to have a  percent efficacy rate against moderate and severe cases, along with  percent effectiveness overall in preventing severe disease. Because adenoviral vector vaccines use a harmless commoncold causing pathogen as a transporter, body of people with preexisting immunity against the adenovirus may attack the vaccines vector before it can play its role, thus hampering the immune responses, The Lancet said. Zhu Tao, chief scientific officer at CanSino Biologics, said preexisting immunity against the adenovirus is not a critical issue that can make or break a vaccine as it can be overcome by administering a second booster shot. We have seen this solution works during clinical trials of our Ebola vaccine, he said. In , the National Medical Products Administration approved CanSinos adenoviral vector vaccine against Ebola for commercial use. A Shanghaibased immunologist who requested anonymity said adenoviral vector vaccines have been tested over three decades against numerous pathogens, including HIV, Ebola and tuberculosis. But it is still a relatively new technology with only a handful of vaccines currently in the market. Nevertheless, the result by CanSinos vaccine is very promising because it can theoretically inoculate double the number of people compared with a twodose regimen, he said. Countries can choose to quickly roll out this vaccine to cover and protect a wide demographic, and consider administering booster shots to certain demographics in the future. However, the expert noted that the vaccination alone is unlikely to stop the transmission of SARSCoV since new mutated strains have been shown to make the current vaccines less effective. Still, if less people are getting severely ill thanks to the vaccine, it is still a big win for our battle against COVID.