Health fears cited for MLBs delay
2021-02-09 10:05
A Cincinnati Reds Major League Baseball player is seen on a television screen inside a bar in Warren, Ohio, US, September , . Picture taken September , . PhotoAgencies    Major League Baseball will start spring training on Feb  and launch the  season on April  after the players union rejected a proposal to delay training camps until March  and the first games until April . MLB last week proposed a game schedule that would pay the players for  games while expanding the playoffs from  to  teams and implementing the designated hitter in the National League. The union immediately balked, citing language in the proposal it believed would grant commissioner Rob Manfred more expansive powers to cancel games because of COVID. The rejection means the expanded playoff format, universal designated hitter, seveninning doubleheaders and runners starting on second base in extra innings are all issues that must be revisited before the first pitch of the new season. While multiple players told ESPN they believed delaying the start of the  campaign would be good for the sport because the COVID vaccine wont be as widely distributed by April as it will be in later months, the union leadership believed the collective bargaining agreement in place for last years game schedule provided all it wanted and did not make a counteroffer. We do not make this decision lightly, the MLBPA said in a statement. Players know firsthand the efforts that were required to complete the abbreviated  season, and we appreciate that significant challenges lie ahead. We look forward to promptly finalizing enhanced health and safety protocols that will help players and clubs meet these challenges. Commissioner Manfreds office responded with the following On the advice of medical experts, we proposed a onemonth delay to the start of spring training and the regular season to better protect the health and safety of players and support staff. A delay of the season would allow for the level of COVID infection rates to decrease and additional time for the distribution of vaccinations, as well as minimizing potential disruptions to the  season that currently face all sports. The offer included starting the regular season on April  and playing a game schedule that would pay players in full as if playing  games. This was a good deal that reflected the best interests of everyone involved in the sport by merely moving the calendar of the season back one month for health and safety reasons without impacting any rights either the players or the clubs currently have. Meanwhile, former Los Angeles Angels shortstop Andrelton Simmons revealed to the Orange County Register that he was dealing with a bout of depression and thoughts of suicide when he abruptly quit the Angels in September. Now, seeing how more and more people are struggling with depression, anxiety and suicide, I felt it might be time to share a little piece of my story, Simmons told the newspaper in a series of Twitter messages. I was afraid of people judging and twisting my story. The yearold, who was in the fifth and final season of his contract with the Angels, said he struggled to focus on the game amid the coronavirus pandemic. The first time was driving through Oakland and seeing some of the shops and restaurants trying to stay open with all the homeless people camping outside, Simmons wrote. Thats when it really hit me. I was really saddened by how much I was hearing about the death toll, and seeing how smaller businesses were shutting down and I was depressed at how the effects of all the new rules and fears were gonna affect peoples livelihoods and how disconnected people were becoming. Simmons said he had been dealing with depression and suicidal thoughts since he was a kid. It was tough for me mentally to where the thought of suicide crossed my mind, he wrote. It was something I vowed a long time ago I would never consider again. I was fortunate to talk to a therapist, which helped me let go of those thoughts. At the end, when a lot of people were still going through what most would think of as tough times, the idea of finishing the season in a bubble was just too much for me to handle. Simmons, a fourtime Gold Glove winner, signed a oneyear, . million deal with the Minnesota Twins last month.