Italys coronavirus indicators keep improving despite slowdown in vaccine rollout
2021-02-09 09:40
People walk in front the Duomo Cathedral as the coronavirus disease COVID restrictions are relaxed allowing people to sit outside and enjoy a drink until  pm, in Milan, Italy, Feb , . PhotoAgencies    ROME  Italys main coronavirus indicators continued to improve on Monday, a week into the countrys latest easing of health restrictions and despite a slowdown in vaccine rollout. The latest data from the Ministry of Health showed , new coronavirus infections Monday, the second time the national oneday figure was under , in a week and a level not seen since midOctober. Based on the sevenday moving average, the number of new infections has been on an overall decline since peaking at nearly , in November. The ministry said COVID, the disease caused by the coronavirus, claimed  lives over the last  hours, a slight increase from  a day earlier but still the thirdlowest oneday count of this year. Other indicators tell a similar story. There were more than , recoveries reported Monday, nearly double the number of new cases, bringing the total number of active cases below , for the first time since Nov. . The last time recoveries failed to outnumber newly reported cases was in midNovember. The one outlier among the main indicators was the number of patients in intensive care units, which remains stubbornly high. There were , such cases on Monday, an increase of  compared to Sunday. Mondays number was down by just  compared to ten days ago and  fewer than  days ago. Virologist Fabrizio Pregliasco called the overall situation in Italy essentially stable and said that if that continues, restaurants might reopen in the evenings for the first time in months, at least in lowimpact regions. We are demanding a marathon from our fellow citizens, he said. If there are common sense and systematic compliance with the protocols already in place, then a reopening is possible. The developments come after the countrys easing of health restrictions in most regions starting Jan . A further easing for some regions went into effect Monday. One of the regions that have still not seen its health status loosened is Umbria, a landlocked region of nearly , residents in the central part of the country. Umbria was not hit particularly hard by the earlier waves of the pandemic, but now, according to the newspaper La Repubblica, a new patient is being hospitalized every hour. Il Messaggero, another leading newspaper, said that many of the new infections are related to the more contagious variants first detected in Brazil and Britain. In Rome, police have been active in enforcing quarantine rules, issuing  fines, and arresting one individual for serious breaches of health rules over the weekend. All told, more than  people were sanctioned for illegal gatherings or inadequate maskwearing. The biggest bust was of a clandestine party in the capitals affluent neighborhood of Prati, where, according to media reports,  young partygoers were fined a total of , euros ,. Italys vaccine rollout continues to lag behind its goals due to delivery shortfalls from vaccine makers. According to calculations from the Hume Foundation and the news agency ANSA, if the current pace of immunizations is not sped up, Italy will not achieve herd immunity before August . As the world is struggling to contain the pandemic, vaccination is underway in many countries with the alreadyauthorized coronavirus vaccines. Meanwhile,  candidate vaccines are still being developed worldwide   of them in clinical trials  in countries including Germany, China, Russia, Britain, and the United States, according to information released by the World Health Organization on Feb .