COVID vaccination drive reflects racial disparities in the US
2021-02-08 18:25
People hold placards during a protest over the death of George Floyd in the city of Mountain View, San Francisco Bay Area, California, the United States, May , . XinhuaDong Xudong    A recent report by the Associated Press has indicated that African Americans and Hispanic and Latino Americans in the United States are getting inoculated against COVID at levels below their respective shares of the general population. In Maryland, black people make up  percent of the population and  percent of the health care industry yet account for just  percent of the people vaccinated so far. In Philadelphia and Chicago, the racial discrimination seen in vaccination roll out is also troubling. One of the extraordinary aspects of this pandemic is the racial and ethnic disparities, top US infectious disease expert Anthony Fauci said. The pandemic once again reflects that structural racism remains deeply rooted in American society, which has brought various negative impacts to the life and job opportunities of American minorities. The New York Times also stated that this inequality is unbearable. The problems exposed by the medical industry reflect the current reality most viscerally. Longterm structural racism has prevented American minorities from accessing quality medical services, and the COVID pandemic has further exacerbated this problem. Minorities right to health, which is already poorly guaranteed, has been challenged in the extreme, causing significant tragedy and loss. Research results published in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America showed that estimated excess deaths for Black, Hispanic and Latino populations in the US due to COVID have been three to four times greater than those for Whites. Under a mediumterm scenario, life expectancy among Whites is projected to decline by . years, while the corresponding declines in Black and Latino life expectancies are projected to be . and . years, respectively. These projections imply an increase of nearly  percent in the life expectancy gap between Black and White Americans, rising from . years to over  years, as revealed in the proceedings. The facts lay bare that the perpetuation of longstanding structural racism in the US has led to inequality in many aspects of American life, including as concerns the economy, medical care, the justice system, employment, housing, political participation, and education. According to statistics from the Pew Research Center, in , nearly  percent of White households owned their own homes, which compared with  percent of Asian households and  percent of Black households. In terms of education, among the demographic of those  years and older,  percent of White people,  percent of Asians, and  percent of African Americans had a high school diploma or higher. For Americans of different identities and backgrounds, an uneven distribution of opportunities is one of the main sources of their anxiety and worry in a society where education plays an increasingly important role. This kind of ominous shadow has even become likened to a mental plague hanging over American society. Only rotten trees grow bad apples. Racism has been entrenched throughout the history of the US In American history, black people were enslaved and forced to work under cruel conditions. According to the Center for American Progress, in current US dollars, the value of the labor squeezed from slaves by American slave owners had exceeded  trillion. It was not until the s and s when civil rights movements finally emerged in the US, a turbulent time which failed to get at the root of the fundamental problem however. Over the past  years, the unemployment rate for African American workers has been roughly twice that of their White counterparts, while the incomes of African American families were  percent to  percent lower than that of White families. At present, the US still suffers from systematic discrimination against Black people, and racial contradictions have become increasingly acute. On the road to pursuing the American Dream, minorities have never once stood at the same starting line as White people. US President Biden made improving racial equality a priority for his first term. On the day he took office, he talked about the existence of a cry for racial justice some  years in the making. Recently, Biden signed a memorandum denouncing the discrimination directed at Asian Americans during the COVID pandemic. This move undoubtedly reflected the seriousness of racial tensions that have since flared up during the pandemic. From its founding up until this day, the American society has been afflicted with a grave contradiction between the creed of its founders that all men are created equal and the facts of racism, indicating that there is still a long way to go for the country to achieve unity and heal the wounds of ethnic disparities.