More nations dosing up on selfsufficiency
2021-02-06 09:00
A protest in New York on Thursday highlights concerns for the fair distribution of vaccines. PhotoAgencies    Amid global rush for vaccines, focus begins shifting to domestic production Countries around the globe are rolling out COVID vaccinations after the United Kingdom became the first to start vaccinating its citizens in December. However, concerns have been raised that rich nations are able to access a plentiful supply of vaccines while poor nations cannot. As part of the World Health Organizations COVAX initiative for equitable global access, vaccines will be available to  countries, including more than  in Europe, from the end of the month. The program, led by the WHO, the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations and Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance, released its distribution plan on Wednesday. The initiative aims to distribute around . million doses million doses of the AstraZeneca vaccine and . million doses of the PfizerBioNTech vaccineby June. The distributed vaccines will cover on average . percent of the total population of the  participating countries, which include lowand middleincome countries as well as richer nations such as New Zealand, Saudi Arabia, Canada and South Korea. The WHO initiative is committed to fair global distribution of vaccines, with its DirectorGeneral Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus having said the world was on the brink of a catastrophic moral failure as rich countries bought up early doses of the vaccines. There are  countries on the list that are low and middle income. They will receive the vaccines through donations to the initiative by highincome countries and global foundations. Chinese Foreign Affairs Ministry spokesman Wang Wenbin announced on Wednesday that China has decided to provide  million doses of COVID vaccines to emerging nations under the COVAX framework. Wang said China will promote fair distribution of vaccines and advance international cooperation in the fight against the pandemic, adding that it will work closely with the WHO. International cooperation The Serum Institute of India, which signed contracts with AstraZeneca and Novavax for the mass production of their vaccines, will supply . billion doses to COVAX. To deal with short supplies of vaccines, some countries are trying to be selfsufficient in the production of the lifesaving drugs. According to a report by Japanese public broadcaster NHK, AstraZeneca will soon start producing its vaccines in Japan by outsourcing the work to several Japanese firms in hope to speed up vaccine supplies to the country. Canada said on Tuesday that a deal has been struck with Novavax to produce its COVID vaccines in Canada, but the pharmaceutical company is not expected to be ready to roll out doses domestically until the fall at the earliest, according to Canadian television network CTV. Bloomberg reported that Turkey is preparing to produce Russias Sputnik V coronavirus vaccine, which was . percent effective in preventing the development of COVID, according to peerreviewed results from its latestage clinical trial published in international medical journal The Lancet on Tuesday.