Africas rollout gathers pace as more doses arrive
2021-02-05 10:28
Workers load South Africas first coronavirus disease COVID vaccine doses as they arrive at OR Tambo airport in Johannesburg, South Africa, Feb , . PhotoAgencies    South Africa has become one of the first African countries to receive coronavirus vaccine, with President Cyril Ramaphosa hailing the arrival of the first doses on Monday. The arrival of these vaccines contains the promise that we can turn the tide on this disease that has caused so much devastation and hardship in our country and across the world, Ramaphosa said in an address to the nation. South Africa has recorded more than . million COVID infections and over , deathsthe most in Africa on both counts. It has become the fifth African nation to roll out vaccinations, after Morocco, Egypt, the Seychelles and Guinea. Morocco has bought  million doses of a vaccine from AstraZeneca and , doses of the Chinadeveloped Sinopharm vaccine, official reports said. The North African country started vaccinations this week. Egypts program got underway on Sunday, with doctors and nurses the first to receive the Sinopharm jab. The Egyptian government said it has reserved more than  million doses from different providers. In a recent webinar convened by Ramaphosa, who is also the current chairperson of the African Union, it was revealed that the COVID African Vaccine Task Team has secured a provisional  million doses for African countries and has also received offers of an additional  million doses. Advanced procurement Ramaphosa said the African ExportImport Bank has been instrumental in working with the task team and the global COVAX facility in organizing an advanced procurement facility of  billion to enable African countries to deal with suppliers directly. The COVAX facility will provide  percent of vaccines for the continent. Choosing the pooled procurement route instead of only bilateral acquisition will enable African countries to access the lifesaving vaccines more speedily, Ramaphosa said. John Nkengasong, the director of the Africa Centres for Disease Control and Prevention, said he wants to ensure a fast rollout of the vaccines. The biggest hurdles are financing and overcoming the logistical difficulties of vaccinating at scale, he said. Chinese Ambassador to Zimbabwe Guo Shaochun said on Tuesday that China will supply the first batch of vaccine aid to  developing countries, and Zimbabwe is among them. Zimbabwe will be one of the first  countries to receive vaccine aid from China very soon, he said on Twitter. Guo posted a statement from Wang Wenbin, spokesman for the Chinese Foreign Ministry, who said that China has been acting on its commitment of making Chinadeveloped COVID vaccines a global public good. Xinhua contributed to this story.