Battered Philippines gears up for shots drive
2021-02-05 10:25
Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte gestures during his fourth State of the Nation address at the Philippine Congress in Quezon City, Metro Manila, Philippines, July , . PhotoAgencies    The Philippines is planning a mass inoculation drive by the end of this month to curb coronavirus infections and revive an economy reeling from its worst postWorld War II slump. President Rodrigo Duterte said in a televised briefing on Monday that while the economy is sinking deeper and deeper, the government is trying its very best to keep it afloat. Around  million vaccine doses are expected to arrive this month, said Carlito Galvez Jr, who heads the nations COVID task force. The vaccines are coming from the COVID Vaccines Global Access Facility, or COVAX. The Philippines secured  million doses of the Sinovacdeveloped CoronaVac vaccine. The Philippine economy contracted by . percent in , the worst performance since , official data showed. Analysts say the vaccine rollout is crucial to lift household consumption, which accounts for roughly  percent of the countrys GDP. The National Economic and Development Authority, the economic planning agency, said lockdown measures and mobility restrictions may have slashed household spending by  billion pesos . billion in . Recovery is definite but not necessarily going back to the high growth path prior to COVID, said Alvin Ang, professor of economics at the Ateneo de Manila University. The challenge is still balancing public health and the national economy. The Philippines has one of the highest number of COVID cases in Southeast Asia, with infections at more than , and the number of deaths at more than ,. Duterte said the only salvation for those who have not been infected is to follow the health protocols imposed by the government. Before the pandemic, the Philippines had been one of the worlds fastestgrowing economies. Rajiv Biswas, Asia Pacific chief economist at global business information provider IHS Markit, said vaccines are needed to contain the pandemic, boost consumer spending and buoy the broader economy. Perspectives vary The Philippines economy is forecast to show a strong economic recovery in , with GDP growth of . percent yearonyear. This economic rebound will be supported by the gradual rollout of the COVID vaccination program, Biswas said. Nicholas Antonio Mapa, senior economist for Dutch investment bank ING, has a less sanguine view. He expects the Philippine GDP to remain in contraction in the first quarter of  before posting a substantial  percent rise in the second quarter. Household spending, the main growth engine of the economy, will likely stay in low gear with the unemployment rate at . percent, with prospects for a quick turnaround in consumption confounded further by the return of inflation, Mapa said. Karl Kendrick Chua, the Philippines acting socioeconomic planning secretary, said in a Jan  briefing the reopening of businesses and wider accessibility of public transport will lead to a strong recovery before the end of the year.