Report offers checkup on health of Chinese people in
2021-02-05 09:33
A group of people practicing yoga at a park in Taizhou, Jiangsu province. Photo by Tang Dehong  For China Daily    Over  percent of respondents held a positive attitude toward the prospects of Chinas healthcare system and the potential for technologies, a health report found. China Daily app and DX Doctor, a health information sharing platform, published the health report on Friday. By conducting an online survey of , Chinese residents and analyzing data from their platforms, China Daily app and DX Doctor aim to gather a portrait of the overall health of Chinese people in a year plagued by the novel coronavirus. During the fight against the COVID pandemic, Chinas healthcare system withstood the big challenge. Several versions of guidelines to prevent and control the spread of the novel coronavirus were issued to the public the ability to conduct nucleic acid tests has grown to  million in one day online medical counseling was widely used homegrown vaccines have been approved and administered at home and abroad. Technologies also played an important part. Infrared thermometers were installed at public venues to quickly check body temperatures robots were used to disinfect the environment and guide visitors QR health codes were used nationwide to facilitate travel efficiency. According to the report, the pandemic affected Chinese peoples daily lives, from work to commuting and travel, but it also led to positive changes in lifestyle and family relations. A total of  percent of respondents said the pandemic had a negative impact on their lifestyle while  percent reported a positive influence. A total of  percent of respondents said the pandemic negatively affected family relations while  percent saw a positive influence. The survey found that physical health remained a top priority in life, with peoples health expectations high at . out of . Mental health received increasing attention. For two consecutive years, mental health ranked first among peoples health concerns, especially among young people. Most respondents thought personal factors, such as lifestyle, work and economic situation, had the greatest impact on their health situation. A total of  percent of the respondents admitted they were troubled by health issues. Unchanged from last year, the top three issues were emotional problems, poor skin conditions and being unsatisfied with ones body image. At the same time, people didnt think they had done enough to keep healthy, only awarding themselves . for their efforts. Men made more efforts than women to stay fit, and older people tended to be more active than their younger counterparts in living a healthy life. Based on customer survey data from Decathlon, running and walking were the most common exercises, followed by dancing and ball games. Online counseling saw a significantly increase in public demand during the pandemic. Most respondents said they chose online counseling due to its convenience and quick response. People in thirdtier and fourthtier cities also resorted to online counseling. China Daily app is Chinas goto source for highquality English news content including breaking news, livestreaming, videos, commentary and indepth reporting. DX Doctor was founded in  with the aim of bridging the misinformation gap between medical professionals and laymen. It has released its health report for three consecutive years.