Oxford vaccine helps to limit transmission
2021-02-04 09:28
A vial of the Oxford UniversityAstraZeneca COVID vaccine is seen at the Lochee Health Centre in Dundee, Scotland, Britain, Jan , . PhotoAgencies    Effect of single dose also lasts longer than previously thought, study finds One dose of the novel coronavirus vaccine produced by AstraZeneca and the University of Oxford provides protection from the virus for at least three months, according to new analysis that also found the jab inhibits transmission. Announcing the dual wins, Oxford University scientists said those who have received an injection are therefore less likely to spread the virus to others, a fact that had not previously been proven by research. They also said the United Kingdoms dosing strategy, in which the second dose of the vaccine is administered  weeks after the first and which had been criticized by some other nations, has now been shown to be optimum. Results from a preprint study published in the journal The Lancet revealed that the socalled Oxford vaccine shows sustained protection during the threemonth interval. The researchers said that the vaccine was  percent effective between day  and day  of receiving the first dose. The day interval is the period of time the vaccine requires to induce an immune response. The researchers also said that there was a  percent reduction in positive swabs taken from vaccinated people in the UK. Thats a big reduction of the number of individuals in the community who would be able to pass on to others, Oxford Vaccine Group Director Andrew Pollard told the BBC. UK Health Secretary Matt Hancock said the encouraging study was a sign that the vaccine works and works well. This news about the Oxford vaccine is absolutely superb, Hancock said on Twitter. This should give everyone confidence that this jab works not only to keep you safe, but also to stop you from passing on the disease to others. Several health experts had questioned the UKs approach of having a longer delay between doses than the threetofourweek interval recommended by most vaccine makers. The intent behind the strategy had been to offer a larger number of people a first dose. Critics argued there was insufficient evidence that protection would persist for such a long time. The new study, which is yet to be peerreviewed, provides valuable additional results to a smaller dataset from interim trials that the UKs Joint Committee on Vaccination and Immunization, or JCVI, had relied upon to form the week policy. There is good protection from the first dose, right up until the second dose is given, which is extremely good news, Pollard said. It also supports the policy recommendation made by the JCVI for a week primeboost interval, as they look for the optimal approach to roll out, and reassures us that people are protected from  days after a single dose of the vaccine. The UK is also currently using an additional jab, from Pfizer and BioNTech, in its vaccine campaign, though the Lancet paper only presents results on the impact of the week delay on the Oxford vaccine. Oxford University said that accompanying data regarding variants of the novel coronavirus can be expected in the coming days.