China to offer vaccine doses to COVAX
2021-02-04 07:04
Pakistans Prime Minister Imran Khan center back witnesses the first vaccination in the country with the newly arrived Chinesemade COVID vaccine being administered to a frontline health worker in Islamabad on Tuesday. Photo provided by PID    Nation to meet developing countries needs via initiative at request of WHO China said on Wednesday it will provide  million doses of COVID vaccines to the global vaccine sharing initiative COVAX to meet the urgent needs of developing countries. Foreign Ministry spokesman Wang Wenbin said at a daily news briefing that China is responding to a request from the World Health Organization as developing countries seek to make up for shortages of the vaccines. The WHO has started to review the authorization for emergency use of the Chinese vaccines, Wang said, adding that Chinese enterprises will continue to cooperate actively and that he hopes the review process will be completed as soon as possible. Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, directorgeneral of the WHO, said in January that there needs to be a collective commitment within the next  days to get vaccinations underway worldwide for health workers and others who are at high risk of contracting COVID. China attaches great importance to Tedros appeal and the difficulties facing the practical implementation of the COVAX initiative, in particular the huge vaccine supply gap in February and March, Wang said. It is another important step taken by China to ensure equitable distribution of vaccines, promote international antipandemic cooperation and uphold the concept of a shared community of health for all, he said. The WHOled COVAX initiative aims to secure at least  billion doses by the end of  and ensure equitable access for  lowand middleincome countries that cannot afford to pay for vital supplies on their own. China joined the initiative in October. We hope capable countries will swing into action, support COVAX through concrete actions, back the WHOs work, assist developing countries in obtaining vaccines in a timely manner and contribute to the international community overcoming the pandemic at an early date, Wang said. He noted that Beijing is in close communication and cooperation with the WHO to ensure vaccine accessibility and affordability in developing countries. Speaking at the opening of the rd session of the World Health Assembly via video link in May, President Xi Jinping announced that Chinas COVID vaccines would be made a global public good. Ever since then, the country has been making great efforts to fulfill its commitment. China has exported large amounts of domestically developed vaccines to countries including the United Arab Emirates, Morocco, Indonesia, Turkey, Brazil and Chile, where clinical studies of Chinese vaccines have been conducted. It also supports relevant companies in exporting vaccines to countries in urgent need that have approved Chinese vaccines and authorized their emergency use. On Monday, the first shipment of Chinadonated COVID vaccines reached Pakistan. The country formally started the drive to administer the vaccines to its frontline healthcare workers on Wednesday, Xinhua News Agency reported. According to the Foreign Ministry, China is also providing vaccine assistance to another  developing countries and will continue to provide such assistance to another  developing countries in the next phase.