French contract takes UK vaccine doses to m
2021-02-03 10:19
A medical worker prepares a dose of COVID vaccine at a vaccination center in the English town of Hartlepool on Sunday.LEE SMITHREUTERS    The United Kingdom has signed a deal with French company Valneva for another  million doses of its candidate coronavirus vaccine, a move that increases the countrys sizable stockpile of doses. The doses topup comes as a UK trial shows that a vaccine developed by US company Novavax has demonstrated high efficacy in protecting against COVID. With the nation of around  million people now holding or expecting at least  million jabs, speculation has turned to when and how London might help other nations. The Bloomberg news agency said the new order means the UK has now requested a total of  million jabs from Valneva, with many not due to be delivered until next year. London also has an option to buy an additional  million doses if it wants, which would be delivered between  and . Valneva said the order could end up costing the UK as much as . billion euros . billion if the UK takes up all the options it is entitled to because of earlier agreements. Clive Dix, the chairman of the UKs vaccines task force, said the apparent extra doses will give us future flexibility in the event that we would need to revaccinate part of the population. Early clinical tests on the vaccine, which will be produced in Scotland, have been successful. Of the Novavax vaccine, trials show it has an . percent efficacy against COVID, especially the variant first detected in the UK, according to interim study data. The fact that the more transmissible variant was circulating during the trial involving , people suggests the vaccine, called NVXCoV, is effective against it. Encouraging figure Based on analysis of samples from infected trial participants, Novavax said its vaccine was . percent effective against the original COVID strain, and . percent effective against the variant. In general, drug regulators will not authorize a vaccine with less than  percent efficacy. The efficacy shown against the emerging variants is also extremely encouraging, said Dix. The fact that the UK has ordered large quantities of vaccines from several companies means stocks have been sufficient for it to get its vaccination drive off to a good start, with around  million people in the most vulnerable groups having received their first jab so far. On Monday, the National Health Service said it had completed the process of offering an injection to everyone in Englands , care homes for elderly residents. UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson described the achievement as a crucial milestone in the nations race to vaccinate, by midFebruary, the  million people deemed to be most at risk of dying from COVID. The European Union put on a brave face on Monday, defending its vaccination program and insisting that renewed pledges of vaccine deliveries would make up for a production shortfall. Pharmaceutical giants have scrambled to ramp up production and deliveries as German Chancellor Angela Merkel held talks in Berlin with political leaders and vaccine makers, while anger grew over the EUs sluggish inoculation program. Earle Gale, Angus McNeice in London and agencies contributed to this story.