European nations tighten quarantine measures
2021-02-03 09:26
Volunteers collect COVID home test kits from residents, in Goldsworth and St Johns, amid the outbreak of coronavirus disease COVID in Woking, Britain, Feb , . PhotoAgencies    Countries across Europe are moving toward closing their borders or restricting access to travelers in a bid to suppress the spread of the novel coronavirus and its mutant variants that threaten to disrupt vaccination drives. The World Health Organization has long predicted that the winter months would test European governments determination in the fight against the pandemic. One of its spokespersons used the naval expression all hands on deck to describe the nationswide effort that would be required to navigate the storm, and there can be no doubt that Europe is now traversing choppy waters. COVID infections have surged since Christmas, especially in the United Kingdom, where the disease has been claiming the lives of more than , people per day. Europes response to the changing situation varies from nation to nation, depending on the rates of infection, but most countries now require proof of a negative COVID test upon arrival and some require a quarantine too. Due to the discovery of a new variant first identified in Kent, England, many European countries have prohibited arrivals from the UK completely. People traveling to England from socalled highrisk nations will soon have to quarantine in governmentsanctioned hotels and at their own expense, rather than at home, so selfisolation rules can be more strictly enforced. Travel to the UK is now banned from  countries on its red list associated with new coronavirus variants. These include countries in South America, nations in Southern Africa, Portugal and the United Arab Emirates. The ban on flights from the UAE shuts down the worlds busiest international airline route from Dubai to London. Britains Home Secretary Priti Patel said a holiday travel ban will also be tightened, with all travelers required to declare their reason for leaving the UK. Senior Cabinet minister Michael Gove added that some work trips would not be allowed and there needed to be powerful business reasons for travel. Most European Union member states use a traffic light map from the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control, or ECDC, as a guideline to highrisk countries. The ECDC map shows there are no longer any green zone safe countries across the EU. In some countries anyone arriving from a red zone must go into selfisolation for a certain amount of days, between  and , but may be able to testout earlier with a negative result. This is the situation in Germany, France, and Italy. Spain currently remains open to tourists, with restrictions depending on where travelers are coming from. But scientists warn that travel bans will not keep out mutant strains of the novel coronavirus and they can only buy time. According to leading scientist and UK government adviser Jeremy Farrar, nations are in a race against a virus that keeps mutating. In the future I think we will see variants that escape from the vaccines, he told BBC Radio s Today program in a recent interview. The thing to do at the moment is to vaccinate as many people as we can in the world to drive down the amount of transmission and prevent these new variants coming. Thats in our national interests, its in an equitable and ethical interest, and its in the worlds interests to do so, he said. More support for aviation The UKs aviation sector has said it urgently needs more government support if it is to survive another long period of travel restrictions. Industry body Airlines UK noted, in a letter to government on Jan , that the UK already has some of the toughest border restrictions on international arrivals anywhere in the world. The International Air Transport Association IATA stated that while it recognizes the UK government must take the steps it considers necessary to protect public health, further restrictions will plunge the aviation and travel industry deeper into crisis. According to news site FlightGlobal, the airline industry body posed a number of questions regarding the UKs hotel quarantine proposals, including around the scientific basis for the decision, the economic impact assessment, and the practicalities of introducing such measures. The IATA stated If ministers cannot answer these key questions, it damages public confidence that there is a coherent strategy for suppressing COVID and a roadmap in place for returning to normal life. A senior IATA official told the BBC last month that the worlds airlines need another  billion of government support to survive the crisis, on top of  billion already given. However, Andrew Adonis, a former UK transport secretary, struck a more upbeat tone when speaking to the travel sectors Virtual ITT Conference Forum on Jan . He paraphrased Mark Twains famous quote when he said Rumors of travels death are greatly exaggerated. He added Once the vaccine has been rolled out, behavior patterns will return, although the transitional pain will be acute.