Pfizer targets at least  bln COVID vaccine doses this year, sees  bln in  from the shots
2021-02-03 04:06
FILE PHOTO The Pfizer logo is seen at their UK commercial headquarters in Walton Oaks, Britain, February , . PhotoAgencies    Feb   Pfizer Inc said on Tuesday it expects to generate  billion, or about a quarter of its total revenue this year, from sales of its COVID vaccine codeveloped with German partner BioNTech SE. Sales from the vaccine  on track to be the drugmakers top product this year  could top  billion if the company signs more supply contracts, it said. Pfizer aims to make two billion doses of the COVID vaccine in . Pfizer Chief Executive Albert Bourla said in an interview that the company wanted to be conservative in its target and is working on numerous initiatives to exceed that output. Weve increased the batches we run per week, weve doubled the output  the yield per batch  weve dramatically improved our success rates, weve made process improvements to the assembly lines, Chief Financial Officer Frank DAmelio said in the interview. All these things are things were continuing to examine to see what else we can do to try to produce more doses faster, he added. Pfizer also said it expects there could be a longlasting need for COVID vaccines, to combat new virus variants that emerge and to boost peoples waning immune responses. The company is launching a study to determine whether a third dose of the COVID vaccine, administered to months after the initial shots, can extend and improve efficacy with more contagious variants circulating in communities around the world. The PfizerBioNTech vaccine is currently administered as two doses three weeks apart. Chief Scientific Officer Mikael Dolsten said he believes mRNA vaccines like Pfizers generate a strong enough immune response to repel the currently circulating variants, and that a booster, rather than a redesigned vaccine, is the right approach for now. Citi analyst Andrew Baum said he was optimistic that revenue contributions from the vaccine could be sustainable beyond . Pfizer expects to supply  million doses to the U.S. government by the end of May. To achieve the goal, it will have to deliver an average of around  million doses per week, more than double the rate Pfizer and BioNTech delivered to the United States through the end of January, according to Reuters calculations. The vaccine, which uses synthetic messenger RNA mRNA to prompt an immune response against the virus, was the first shot to be authorized for emergency use in the United States, marking the first regulatory nod for the new technology. mRNA vaccines and COVID could prove transformative for Pfizer, which is already one of the worlds largest drugmakers, CEO Bourla said. A potential flu vaccine based on the technology could hit the market by , executives said on a conference call. Pfizer forecast  sales between . billion and . billion. The company raised both ends of its fullyear adjusted profit forecast by  cents and now expects to earn . to . per share. Reuters