US signs deal for athome virus tests
2021-02-02 13:46
Frontline healthcare worker Joanne Grajeda administers a nasal swab test at a drivein COVID testing site amid a surge of COVID cases in El Paso on Nov ,  in El Paso, Texas. PhotoAgencies    The White House said Monday that it has signed a  million contract with an Australian company to produce an overthecounter coronavirus test that can be taken at home without a prescription and that yields immediate results. The contract will allow the company Ellume, which manufacturers the test, to quickly increase its production and create a manufacturing plant in the US, said Andy Slavitt, the White House COVID senior adviser, during a White House briefing on Monday. Ellume has been ramping up manufacturing and will ship , test kits per month to the US from February through July he said. Thats good but its obviously not where well need to be. The contract provides money for Ellume to build a manufacturing plant in the US for the athome tests. Slavitt said that could scale up production to more than  million test kits per month by the end of the year, . million of which are guaranteed to the US government, he said. Slavitt said the test can detect the coronavirus with  percent accuracy within roughly  minutes. The price of the test is about , but Slavitt said that costs will come down, only when we can get to that mass production and scale. Theres a chickenandegg problem, which we have taken a step to solve today, he said during the briefing. The test requires a smartphone, the company has said. The test is authorized to be used by people both with and without symptoms. It can also be used on children as young as  years old. Ellumes test was the first overthecounter, rapid coronavirus home test to be authorized by the Food and Drug Administration FDA. It was approved Dec . But the test was expected to be available only in limited quantities. The FDA has cleared three coronavirus tests that can be processed entirely at home, but Ellumes is the only one that doesnt require a prescription. None of the three tests are widely available. Public health authorities have been seeking rapid, easytouse tests for the coronavirus that can be performed anywhere, to enable people to quickly determine whether they have the virus and to allow for wider screening. Ellume shipped out its first batch of , tests to the US the week of Jan , the company said last week. Ellume had originally aimed to ship , tests a day starting in January. The company is looking in Maryland, Virginia, California and other states for a location for its first US production facility, according to a company spokeswoman. To use the test, a person uses a nasal swab and inserts their sample into the test kit, which searches for pieces of virus proteins, called antigens. The results are then transmitted to the persons phone via Bluetooth, where the person can choose to share the results with a healthcare provider. The result cant be accessed without downloading the app, the company says. The mobile application requires users to input their ZIP codes and dates of birth. Names and email addresses are optional. The information is sent to public health authorities. The announcement of the test comes as the US death toll has climbed past , with more than , lives lost in January, the deadliest month yet of the coronavirus in the US, according to data from Johns Hopkins University. There was some good news in the data. Deaths are running at about , per day on average, down slightly by about  from their peak in midJanuary, and cases are trending downward in all  states. Dr Philip Landrigan, an epidemiologist at Boston College, told The Associated Press that vaccines are a factor in the sharp drop in cases but are not the primary cause. Instead, he said, the crisis has become increasingly depoliticized in recent weeks as more people come to grips with the threat and how they can help slow the spread of the virus. Also at the White House briefing on Monday, Dr Rochelle Walensky, the director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention CDC, said that US has increased its ability to detect new, more contagious coronavirus variants tenfold. She said that labs were aiming to sequence , samples of the virus per week, a significant increase from the week of Jan , when she said that only  samples had been sequenced. Last week, , samples were sequenced for the virus mutations, she said. Jeffrey Zients, the White Houses COVID response coordinator, said last week that the nations sequencing effort was totally unacceptable. Agencies contributed to this story.