COVID vaccine distribution in NYC skews across racial lines report
2021-02-02 10:35
A healthcare worker prepares a syringe with the Moderna COVID Vaccine at a popup vaccination site operated by SOMOS Community Care during the COVID pandemic in Manhattan in New York, Jan , . PhotoAgencies    NEW YORK  Nearly half of New York City residents who received a COVID vaccination shot were white, more than double any minority group in the city, according to data released late Sunday by NYC health officials. Hundreds of thousands of New Yorkers have received shots since December, with whites accounting for  percent. Blacks received  percent of the doses, while  percent went to Asians and another  percent to Latinos in the city, reported the Wall Street Journal on Monday. The citys vaccination data is incomplete. As of Sunday, officials didnt have demographic information for  percent, or more than ,, of those who received the vaccine, according to the WSJ. Still, it offered the clearest picture yet of which races and ethnicities are receiving shots and show that vulnerable communities are starkly undervaccinated, said the journal. Mayor Bill de Blasio said that the data highlighted a profound problem of racial inequity and the coronavirus pandemic. Blacks and Latinos in the United States have been killed by COVID at more than twice the rate of white residents, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. The disparity is very plain. It has to be addressed forcefully, de Blasio said at his press conference on Sunday. Many states have pledged to ensure the hardesthit minority groups would have equal or priority access to the vaccine. In December, New York State Governor Andrew Cuomo said that the states major hospitals were drawing up vaccination plans, which would include partnerships with community organizations to ensure outreach to communities of color, according to the journal. As of Sunday afternoon, the coronavirus deaths added up to , and the confirmed cases , in NYC, according to The City, a project that tracks the spread of confirmed COVID infections and fatalities in New York City, based on information provided by the New York City Department of Health and Mental Hygiene, the governors office, The COVID Tracking Project and the Center for Systems Science and Engineering at Johns Hopkins University.