Denmark to reopen schools for youngest children
2021-02-02 10:12
A person dressed as a Santa Claus meets with children while sitting in a Santa Claus bubble as he opens Christmas season at Aalborg Zoo, amid the coronavirus disease COVID outbreak, in Aalborg, Denmark November , . PhotoAgencies    COPENHAGEN  Denmark took a first tentative step towards reopening amid the coronavirus crisis when Minister for Health and Senior Citizens Magnus Heunicke announced at a press conference on Monday that from Feb.  the countrys youngest students would be heading back to school. Our goal with the massive closure was to reduce the number of COVID infections and give breathing space to our hospitals. We can now state that it has succeeded. Therefore we can reopen our schools for students in first to fourth grade, Heunicke said. All other students will continue to be subject to the coronavirus restrictions, which have been in place since Dec. , . This is the precondition for us to be able to maintain control of the epidemic, he said. Danish Prime Minister Mette Frederiksen announced last Thursday the extension of the restrictions until Feb. , and said that it was important to reopen schools for the youngest children before that date. The decision is based upon the recommendation of the Statens Serum Institut SSI. Meanwhile, the number of new COVID infections continues to fall in Denmark but the new and more contagious coronavirus variant known as B is spreading fast across the country. According to the SSI, Denmark registered  new COVID infections and a further  deaths in the past  hours. To date, the country has reported , COVID cases and , deaths. As the world is struggling to contain the pandemic, vaccination is underway in many European countries with the alreadyauthorized coronavirus vaccines. Meanwhile,  candidate vaccines are still being developed worldwide   of them in clinical trials  in countries including Germany, China, Russia, Britain and the United States, according to information released by the World Health Organization on Jan. .