Snowstorm hitting New York, causing vaccination postpones
2021-02-02 04:26
A person removes snow from the sidewalk during a snow storm, amid the coronavirus disease COVID pandemic, in the Manhattan borough of New York City, New York, US, February , . PhotoAgencies    NEW YORK  New York State declared a state of emergency in New York City, Long Island and seven counties in Hudson Valley on Monday as a heavy snowstorm has been hitting the areas hard from Sunday night. Aboveground subway service as well as service on portions of the Long Island Railroad and MetroNorth could be significantly delayed or stopped on Monday afternoon, according to a statement from New York State Governor Andrew Cuomo. A number of major roadways could face travel bans if snowfall rates reach the expected two to three inches per hour, and New Yorkers are urged to avoid all unnecessary travel. New York City, Long Island and MidHudson Regions could see up to two feet of snowfall by Tuesday morning, said the statement. Meanwhile, vaccine appointments at five mass vaccination sites and six popup vaccine sites for Monday would be rescheduled for later this week, according to the New York State government. In an official release issued on Monday, Cuomo said that This storm is no joke and the main concern right now is that the expected snowfall rate of two inches per hour this afternoon creates an extremely dangerous situation on our roadways. When snow is falling that quickly, it makes it very difficult for plows to keep up with it. I want New Yorkers to hear me loud and clear  stay home and off the roads and if you must travel, get where youre going before noon, and expect to remain home for some time. Weve been through this before and we will get through it again, Cuomo said. The storm is expected to be a longduration event with snow spreading northward on Monday into the night and continuing for some places through Wednesday morning, especially parts of the North Country, Southern Tier and Central NY, according to the release. Snowfall rates were expected to increase to one to three inches per hour as the storm progresses northward. Wind gusts could reach  miles per hour or more on Long Island, especially eastern Long Island where  mph wind gusts could occur, while many places upstate could see up to  mph wind gusts, said the release. New York City also suspended its Open Restaurant Program and Open Street Program on Monday as heavy snow makes it hard to serve customers on sidewalk space. All public schools in New York City are subject to allremote learning mode on Monday, according to a local announcement. New York City, northeast New Jersey, Lower Hudson Valley, much of Nassau county and part of southwest Connecticut would have  to  inches of snowfall, according to a forecast by the National Weather Service on Sunday afternoon.