CBO says US economy set for faster  rebound, complicating stimulus talks
2021-02-02 03:52
In this file photo people wait in line to enter a Disney Store at the Citadel Outlets in Los Angeles, California on November , . PhotoAgencies    Feb   The US economy will grow . in  after contracting . in , the Congressional Budget Office said on Monday in a rosier forecast that could strengthen Republican resistance to President Joe Bidens proposed . trillion COVID aid plan. The new forecasts, based on U.S. laws and policies enacted law through Jan.   about a week before Biden took office  predict that growth will taper off after  to below  by . But they are significantly stronger than the CBOs previous economic forecasts issued in July, which predicted a  real GDP growth rebound in  after a . contraction in . CBO currently projects a stronger economy than it did in July , in large part because the downturn was not as severe as expected and because the first stage of the recovery took place sooner and was stronger than expected, CBO said. The latest forecasts include the effects of a  billion coronavirus stimulus package passed at the end of  and a faster resumption of business activity. It said the  stimulus plan would increase the U.S. budget deficit by  billion in fiscal , which ends Sept. , and by  billion in fiscal . The economic forecasts will be used in an update of CBO budget projections for , which will be released later in February and set a baseline for measuring the fiscal costs of Bidens spending proposals. Biden was due to meet with  moderate Republican senators later on Monday to discuss their desire for a smaller stimulus, even as Democrats prepare to move forward without Republican support. CBO said it expected the average U.S. unemployment rate to fall to . in  from . in   a major improvement from July forecasts of . in  and . in . But it said the number of people employed would not recover to prepandemic levels until . Over the course of the coming year, vaccination is expected to greatly reduce the number of new cases of COVID, the disease caused by the coronavirus. As a result, the extent of social distancing is expected to decline, CBO said in its economic forecast report. After this year, CBO said it expected U.S. real gross domestic product growth to slow to . in  and . in   a pace similar to the relatively strong growth years of  and , respectively. Real GDP will average . for  and  and . for the  period, according to the CBO forecasts. But it said inflation as measured by the Consumer Price Index excluding food and energy costs will rise from . in  to . in , and average . for the years , well above the Federal Reserves nominal  inflation target. This could raise concerns that a further massive stimulus, along with Bidens plans for major infrastructure investments could run the economy too hot and stoke inflation. Reuters