A year of pandemic leaves a legacy of disparity
2021-02-01 10:34
A woman receives a dose of the Chinese Sinopharm vaccine as country begins mass vaccination for the coronavirus disease COVID, in Belgrade, Serbia, January , . PhotoAgencies    Editors note Freddie Reidy is a freelance writer based in London. He studied history and history of art at the University of Kent, Canterbury, specializing in Russian history and international politics. The article reflects the authors opinions, and not necessarily the views of CGTN. On the th January , Tedros Adhanom made a statement in Geneva. The World Health Organization DirectorGeneral declared that COVID had become a public health emergency of international consequence. One year on from that landmark event, while the WHO team are searching Wuhan for answers to better understand the virus, the international community is searching for a greater understanding of how COVID is changing the geopolitical sphere. Earlier this week, the world recorded  million cases of the virus. The reproduction rate has surged with  million cases recorded in  months, with that figure doubling in just  months. The consequent loss of life has shocked the world. The virus though, has proved a stern test for governments around the globe. The disparity in virus response, infection and death toll has been incredibly varied with some countries such as Vietnam faring far better than the US, a country with a vastly higher GDP. Indeed, the Lowry Institute ranked Vietnam second in its response, behind New Zealand, with the US languishing in th out of the  nations ranked. A retreat from multinational engagement led by Former President Trump also led to limited coordinated global action. It is not just the US though, in the EU, boarders were closed unilaterally, and restrictions placed on the free movement of PPE around the bloc. Today there is a threat of export bans of vaccinations from the EU because of deficiencies in Brussels vaccination procurement process. Economically, the IMF predicted that by  the Chinese and US economies will only be . percent smaller than prepandemic levels. Given the deglobalisation that the pandemic caused, the suppression of many industries and breakdowns in supply chains, this is a rosier picture than many had feared. However, the acute difference between the worlds two largest economies is that where the Chinese recovery has been facilitated by successful containment and prevention measures, permitting life to largely return to normal, the US recovery has been fuelled by massive asset purchases and fiscal stimulus, in other words, debt. There is also another form of debt. The west has long projected an image of strength and resilience abroad, but in this instance, serious deficiencies have been exposed. This goes beyond misplaced jokes of the Trumpera regarding the injection of bleach, but to the heart of seemingly strong and stable nations like Germany, where in some regions,  percent of people dying in care homes are dying of COVID, alone. On the international stage, the economic aftershocks alone are predicted by the UN to drive  million into extreme poverty. The WHOs COVAX initiative is moving too slowly, an issue which could become a disaster, if cases spike. With G members such as the UK offering  million to the project, the US is only just joining the program. China though has been able to offer and ship considerable supplies of the Sinovac inoculation, while other nations are scrambling to establish their own supply chains. In a postCOVID world, it surely will not go unnoticed those nations able to manage such disasters while supporting the global community and those who simply retreated. Even in G countries like Italy, the EU was left red faced as PPE exports from Germany were banned as supplies were flown to Italy from China. Chinas geopolitical rise has been several decades in the making. But while China successfully transformed itself into an economic and technological superpower, no one expected it to become a soft power superpower, according to Ian Bremner President of EuroAsia Group, writing for the IMF. While the West has been caught repairing the roof while the rain pours, China and East Asia have been sowing the seeds of tomorrows harvest. Whether it be high speed rail projects in China, a drive for digitized system of government in Japan or the continued growth of South East Asian economies facilitated by strong leadership and containment throughout the pandemic. Tomorrows world economy is being built. Relationships being reevaluated and the oldworld order being questioned. It therefore falls on the West to learn the lessons of the pandemic, understand the limitations of isolationism and demonstrate its worth or else face being left behind.