US COVID cases, hospitalizations drop while deaths still increase
2021-02-01 09:21
Dr. Dan Ponticiello, , and Dr. Gabriel Gomez, , intubate a coronavirus disease COVID patient in the COVID ICU at Providence Mission Hospital in Mission Viejo, California, US, January , . PhotoAgencies    WASHINGTON  Amid a slow and uneven rollout of vaccines and increasing concern about new coronavirus variants, key COVID indicators show ease of the pandemic across the country, according to a weekly report of The COVID Tracking Project. For the second week in a row, new cases and hospitalizations dropped nationally,  percent for cases and  percent for hospitalizations. However, cases and hospitalizations remain much higher than at any point before the fall and winter surge, according to the tracking project. A total of , new cases and , deaths were reported across the country on Friday, according to the data updated by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention CDC Saturday. Currently the country averages over , daily cases and over , daily deaths, CDC data show. There were a total of , COVID hospitalizations as of Saturday, the first time below , since Dec.  last year, according to the tracking project. Tests have also declined for about  percent, which may mean that more cases are being missed. COVID deaths rose  percent this week, with states reporting a total of , lives lost to COVID, according to the tracking project. Deaths lag behind cases. Even with cases falling across the country, there may be another week or more of very high death numbers to come, according to the project. Nationwide, new cases among white and African Americans are down more than  percent compared to the previous week, and among Latino people more than  percent, the second week in a row with fewer new cases for all three groups. In California, the most populous state in the United States, COVID deaths surge at record pace as cases decline. An average of  people died every day in the last week, and on Saturday the state reached the grim milestone of , deaths overall, according to data compiled by Johns Hopkins University. The vaccine rollout in the United States has drawn great public attention since it started on Dec.  last year. Health experts and officials have blamed states for slow vaccine rollout. About . million doses have been administered as of Jan. , according to CDC data. The United States has recorded more than . million COVID cases with over , related deaths as of Sunday noon, according to the realtime count kept by Johns Hopkins University.