Turkey receives . mln more Chinas Sinovac COVID vaccines
2021-01-30 10:50
Workers unload a shipment containing boxes of Chinas Sinovac coronavirus disease COVID vaccine at Esenboga Airport in Ankara, Turkey, December , . PhotoAgencies    CAIRO  Turkey on Friday received the remaining part of the second shipment of the COVID vaccine produced by the Chinese biopharmaceutical company Sinovac. Meanwhile, Irans total infections rose to ,,. A Turkish Airlines plane landed at Istanbul Airport early in the morning, carrying . million vaccines. On Monday, Turkey received . million doses as the first part of the second planned consignment of a total of  million. The mass vaccination program in the country started on Jan.  after the delivery of the first batch of  million doses from China at the end of December . Turkey reported , new COVID cases, including  symptomatic patients, pushing its total confirmed cases up to ,,. The death toll from the virus in Turkey rose by  to ,, while the total recoveries climbed to ,,, according to the Turkish Health Ministry. According to the Health Ministrys data, nearly . million Turkish citizens have been vaccinated so far, and the program is going on as planned. Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan recently announced that his country would get  million vaccines from China as part of the procurement plan in the first phase. Irans Health Ministry reported , daily COVID cases, raising the total nationwide infections to ,,. The pandemic has so far claimed , lives in Iran, up by  in the past  hours, said Sima Sadat Lari, the spokeswoman for Iranian Ministry of Health and Medical Education, during her daily briefing. Of the newly infected,  were hospitalized, said Lari. A total of ,, people have recovered from the disease and been discharged from hospitals, while , remain in intensive care units, she added. The Iraqi Ministry of Health reported  new COVID cases and warned of a return of tight restrictions to prevent a possible increase in infections. A statement by the ministry said that there was a slight increase in infections during the past two weeks, and this may be the beginning of a new wave of the pandemic that may be worse than the previous one. We warn against a return to the increase in infections and the accompanying increase in deaths, which may force health authorities to take more restrictive measures, such as partial curfew and closing crowded facilities, the statement said. A separate statement by the ministry reported  new COVID cases, bringing the total nationwide number of cases to ,. The ministry also reported  new deaths, raising the death toll from the infectious virus to ,. Israels Ministry of Health reported , new COVID cases, bringing the tally in the country to ,. The death toll from the COVID in Israel reached , after  new fatalities were added, while the number of patients in serious condition increased from , to ,, out of , hospitalized patients. The total recoveries rose to ,, with , newly recovered cases, while the active cases decreased to ,. The number of people vaccinated against the COVID in Israel has surpassed . million, or . percent of its total population, since the vaccination campaign began on Dec. , , the ministry said. The Qatari health ministry announced  new COVID infections, raising the total number of confirmed cases in the Gulf state to ,. It said  more recovered from the virus, bringing the overall recoveries to ,, while the fatalities remained  for the th day running, according to a ministry statement. Morocco on Friday reported  new COVID cases, taking the total number of infections in the country to ,. The death toll rose to , with  new fatalities during the last  hours, while  people are in intensive care units. Lebanon recorded , new COVID cases bringing the total number of infections to ,, the Health Ministry reported. The death toll from the virus went up by  to ,. Lebanese authorities called on citizens to register their names on the COVID vaccines platform launched by the government earlier this week to gain access to the vaccine.