Three more countries added to UK travel red list amid coronavirus variant concerns
2021-01-29 10:06
People queue at terminal  of Heathrow Airport, as the spread of the coronavirus disease COVID continues, London, Britain Jan , , in this image obtained from social media. PhotoAgencies    LONDON  The British government on Thursday announced its decision to ban travel from the United Arab Emirates, Burundi and Rwanda as it takes further action to prevent the spread of the COVID variant. From  GMT on Friday, nonBritish or Irish passengers who have been in or transited through those countries in the last  days will no longer be granted access to Britain. From tomorrow Friday  January at  pm, were extending our travel ban with the United Arab Emirates, Burundi and Rwanda all added to the UKs red list, said British Transport Secretary Grant Shapps on Twitter. This means people who have been in or transited through these countries will be denied entry, except British, Irish and third country nationals with residence rights who must selfisolate for ten days at HOME, said Shapps. Shapps added that passengers must still have proof of a negative test and completed Passenger Locator Form before arrival, or could otherwise face a fine of  pounds about . US dollars for each. According to Sky News, these passengers allowed to enter Britain will not have the option to reduce their isolation period with a negative COVID test. There will also be a flight ban on direct passenger flights from the UAE. Previously, Britain banned all travel from  countries where there is a risk of known variants. Those countries include South Africa, Portugal and South American nations. Another , people in Britain have tested positive for COVID, bringing the total number of coronavirus cases in the country to ,,, according to official figures released Thursday. The country also reported another , coronavirusrelated deaths. The total number of coronavirusrelated deaths in Britain now stands at ,, the data showed. These figures only include the deaths of people who died within  days of their first positive test. England is currently under the third national lockdown since the outbreak of the pandemic in the country. Similar restriction measures are also in place in Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland. To bring life back to normal, countries such as Britain, China, Germany, Russia and the United States have been racing against time to roll out coronavirus vaccines.