Cementing BRICS together
2021-10-22 07:03
MA XUEJINGCHINA DAILY    The onus lies on China and India to keep the group of leading developing countries together The first two decades of the st century have witnessed tectonic transformations. Modern technology has resulted in an exponential growth in mutual awareness and empowerment of increasingly interdependent global citizens. The Westphalian state system of the last  years is having to increasingly reckon with the unfolding specter of nonstate actors such as transnational organizations both governmental and nongovernmental, multinational corporations and terrorist networks. Moving beyond their historical preoccupation with enhancing the destructive capabilities of their armed forces, states now need to ensure the productivity and prosperity that constitute critical components of national power. National security is inclusive of development. Power is being replaced by influence. The conventional understanding of powersocalled hard poweris being supplemented by soft power, smart power and sharp power all undergirded by human resources, technologies and financial leverage. This has changed the global hierarchy, producing new clusters of power in international relations. For example, while the economic rise of the then West Germany and Japan in the sin the midst of the Cold Wardid not make them great powers, the economic rise of China since the scoinciding with the collapse of the Soviet Unionhas given Beijing enormous systemshaping leverages. This explains how emerging economies have come to be as celebrated as a new category of influencers in international decisionmaking processes and structures. Early to appreciate these structural changes, Jim ONeill, former chief economist at Goldman Sachs, published two papers One in November  titled The World Needs Better Economic BRICs and another in  titled Dreaming with BRICs The Path to . These papers outlined how the emerging economies of Brazil, Russia, India and China promised continued high growth rates, better perdollar returns for investors and projected their expanding share in global governance. For the first  years of the st century, BRIC growth trajectories held true to these projections. This resulted in their coming together after their  Yekaterinburg summit. The fact that this coincided with the onset of global economic slowdown in  and inclusion of South Africa in  to make it BRICS made their continued economic rise even more noticeable. However, this also witnessed their individual growth trajectories drifting away from prophesied patterns. China stood apart by consistently increasing its lead, while the others, especially Russia and Brazil, have been held back. More recently, the COVID pandemic has further expanded Chinas lead over the remaining BRICS members. Chinas GDP crossed  trillion yuan . trillion in  and is now bigger than that of Japan, Germany, the United Kingdom and France combined. It is twoandhalf times bigger than that of the rest of the BRICS. But BRICS have so far held together and their combined GDP of . trillion is edging past US GDP of . trillion. The question is Can BRICS hold together any longer or is it losing shine to other forums such as the Quadrilateral Security Framework of the United States, Japan, Australia and India, which has also become increasingly noticeable. The onus for keeping BRICS alive and together lies primarily with China and Indiathe two largest BRICS economies. This makes strong ChinaIndia relations a prerequisite for the future of BRICS. What holds promise is that the reverse is equally true The success of BRICS carries direct positive spinoffs for their relationship. This gives hope for the future of BRICS. China and India remain economically most engaged in an otherwise disjoined BRICS. Brazil and South Africa are geographically distant, with very different priorities while China, India and Russia have their own divergences and differences. This is why they have evolved a unique strategy for each BRICS summit, preceding each with over  pentagonal preparatory meetings among their academics, think tanks, journalists, business and sports persons, advisors, officials and senior ministers. These interactions aim at creating ground level constituencies for an organic evolution of strong foundations for the BRICS forum. With the pandemic hopefully receding into the background, most economies are today expecting to enter a new phase of Vor Ushaped economic recovery. This period has seen China and India set new records in vaccinating their people, as well as producing and supplying vaccines, medicines, materials and equipment to fight against the virus and provide humanitarian aid around the world. It is also marked by Chinese active pharmaceutical ingredients supporting India as the Pharmacy of the World. This stability in ChinaIndia relations promises BRICS coming together to devise innovative strategies to stay on course. The author is a professor and chairman at the Centre for International Politics, Organization and Disarmament at the Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi. The author contributed this article to China Watch, a think tank powered by China Daily. The views do not necessarily reflect those of China Daily. Contact the editor at editorchinawatch.cn