President Promote cooperation with Bolivia
2021-01-29 07:21
Musiciansperforminstruments in the city of El Alto, Bolivia, on Oct , . PhotoAgencies    China and Bolivia should make plans to promote practical cooperation and push forward the building of the Belt and Road, President Xi Jinping said on Thursday. Xi made the remark in a phone conversation with Luis Arce, president of Bolivia. The nations bilateral relations have progressed steadily since the establishment of diplomatic ties  years ago, especially during the terms of former president Evo Morales, when the two countries increased highlevel exchanges, expanded economic and trade cooperation and had good coordination on multilateral affairs, Xi said. Since the outbreak of COVID, China has offered material and technological aid to Bolivia through various channels to help the South American nation fight the disease, Xi said, adding that China would like to enhance vaccine cooperation with Bolivia. Hailing Bolivia as a good friend and partner for China, Xi said that China supports Bolivia in developing on a path that fits its own national situation to bring more happiness to the Bolivian people. China would like to strengthen policy communication and coordination with Bolivia, exchange experiences on governance and deepen mutual political trust to support each other, Xi said. Xi welcomed Bolivia to make full use of such platforms as the China International Import Expo to promote the countrys highquality products. China supports companies of both nations to expand cooperation in such fields as agriculture, mining, infrastructure construction and telecommunications, Xi said. The two countries should join hands to safeguard the legitimate rights of developing nations under multilateral frameworks such as the United Nations, Xi said. Calling the BoliviaChina relationship unbreakable, Arce said Bolivia cherishes its brotherly friendship with China and hopes to consolidate their bilateral relations. Arce expressed gratitude for Chinas support in the fight against COVID, saying that Bolivia hopes to continue to get help from China. Bolivia would like to increase the alignment of development strategies with China, deepen cooperation in all areas, jointly build the Belt and Road and promote the building of a community with a shared future for mankind, he said.