UN chief reiterates call for equitable access to COVID vaccines
2021-01-28 09:16
UN SecretaryGeneral Antonio Guterres. PhotoAgencies    UNITED NATIONS  United Nations SecretaryGeneral Antonio Guterres on Wednesday reiterated his call for equitable access to COVID vaccines. I want to utilize this vital platform today to once again urge all countries, economies, and manufacturers to work with  and through  the COVAX facility to realize the commitments of equitable access, especially for the most vulnerable, the UN chief said in his prerecorded video message to the Highlevel Webinar on the African COVID Vaccine Financing and Deployment Strategy. We must ensure that vaccines are seen as a global public good  peoples vaccines  accessible and affordable to all, said the secretarygeneral. We must work together to prioritize those most at risk in all countries and close the financing gap. The top UN official commended the African Unions efforts through the COVID African Vaccine Acquisition Task Force to secure an additional  million vaccine doses for African countries, complementing the cooperation with COVAX. We applaud the African ExportImport Bank initiative to avail financing for countries to access the new vaccines and the recent efforts by ECOWAS Economic Community of West African States to meeting your ambition of reaching at least  percent of the population as quickly as possible, he said. Vaccine equity is in every countrys selfinterest. It is also the fastest way to reopen the global economy and start a sustainable recovery, said the UN chief. He expressed his regret that inequities are growing in COVID vaccine access and use. We cannot have a world divided between vaccine haves and havenots, Guterres stressed. The secretarygeneral pointed out that while we all know that COVID vaccines bring a muchneeded source of hope, we must not neglect existing interventions and services. We need to continue strengthening essential health services and systems and routine immunization programs, he said.