Decoupling from China would only serve to alienate US
2021-01-28 09:02
Photo taken on Sept ,  shows the national flags of China R and the United States on the Constitution Avenue in Washington, capital of the United States. PhotoXinhua    As China roars ahead, driving global recovery, it is time for the United States, the worlds largest economy, to review its ties and policies for the common good. Facts speak loudly. Chinas gross domestic product grew . percent last year, overcoming the COVID storm, which caused severe disruption, and standing as the only major economy in the world to register growth. Other major economies, such as the US, the European Union and the United Kingdom, suffered severe contractions. Analysts attribute Chinas return to growth to its ability to successfully control the pandemic and avoid the repeated major shutdowns that have plagued the world. Chinas economy is undoubtedly now the engine of global growth, giving hope to markets and investors worldwide, especially those looking for certainty or a safe haven. It will be instrumental throughout this year in guiding other countries to recovery and spearheading a global return to prosperity. However, it comes at a time when some countries are advocating the idea of decouplingdisengaging from the Chinese economy. The administration of former US president Donald Trump slapped numerous measures on Chinese companies and targeted Chinas exports. These moves were a bad idea, adding to the detriment of the US as a whole. The world economy is globalized, and prosperity is contingent upon interdependence and mutual openness. As the latest US data shows, Trumps trade war against China had cost more than , jobs. Cutting ties with Beijing will not make the US become richer or grow faster. As China positions itself for further growth this year, the new US administration of President Joe Biden should aim to rethink the legacy of Trumps selfdefeating and counterproductive policies. The Trump administration advocated a misleading train of thought that China prospered at the US expense. This pushed a series of arguments that decoupling with Beijing in trade, financial and technological spheres would make the US wealthier and bring jobs home, as well as quash Chinas rise. This, of course, was completely false. The global economy is not a zerosum game. The economic fortunes of countries are interconnected, especially when things such as supply chains and consumer markets span multiple countries. When one major economy is hurt, others are hurt, too. But when one drives growth, others experience the ripple effects. This year is set to see the global economy rebound. The proliferation of vaccines and the unwinding of lockdowns and travel restrictions will see life return to normal and businesses recover lost ground. But the cornerstone is China, which boasts the worlds largest consumer market and industrial base and has proved resilient over the past year. For investors and consumers worldwide, China is a safe bet, with  to  percent GDP growth forecast in the coming  months, which will subsequently have a ripple effect across countries seeking to escape massive slumps. Chinas recoverycoming in a cyclical, global formmeans that imports from neighbors such as Japan and South Korea will boom. Trumps decoupling logic did not stifle China as much as it damaged US interests. It was assumed by advisers of the Trump administration that a push for decoupling could divide the world into two economic blocs and alienate China, but given the size and global scope of its economy, this is just impossible. Not surprisingly, the idea found little enthusiasm. Hence, two major economic agreements involving Chinathe EUChina Comprehensive Investment Agreement and the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnershipwere signed last year. Such moves only serve to alienate the US and shift the balance of economic power away from it. The US needs to engage in the global economy to stay relevant, not disengage. Chinas economic data should remind the Biden administration that the US has nothing to gain from its current path, and ought to moderate its approach toward Beijing in the view of facilitating its own recovery. Trumps spree of lastminute attacks against China did not seem to represent any strategic logic as much as they appeared to have been a bitter, lastminute outburst in pursuit of a confrontational Cold War vision. Regardless, China will continue to drive global economic growth. It must be understood that opennessnot confrontationcan bring about a global recovery and return to normality. The author is a British political and international relations analyst.