China walks the talk in pursuit of multilateralism
2021-01-28 08:11
Containers are transported at a port in Qingdao, East Chinas Shandong province, on Jan , . PhotoIC    In his special address at the World Economic Forum virtual event of the Davos Agenda, Chinese President Xi Jinping called for global action, global response and global cooperation to fix the worlds problems. Xis remarks on Monday resonate with all those across the world committed to upholding multilateralism and jointly building a community with a shared future for mankind. At a time when the deadly coronavirus is still raging in many parts of the world and humanity is encountering a raft of global challenges and crises rarely seen in history, no one can survive without joining forces and working together with others. Thus, an efficient way to jointly ride out the critical moment is to uphold multilateralism, in which all countries need to assume their due responsibilities and take concrete actions, instead of only making empty promises. China has walked the talk and devoted itself to the global fight against the onceinacentury pandemic. Under immense pressure of epidemic prevention and control at home, it has offered urgentlyneeded supplies to others within its capacity. Actions speak louder than words. So far, China has provided assistance to over  countries and  international organizations, and sent  medical expert teams to countries in need. It has also been actively engaged in global cooperation on COVID vaccines and working hard to promote these lifesaving tools to be more accessible and affordable. It is especially important to scale up cooperation on the RD, production and distribution of vaccines and make them public goods that are truly accessible and affordable to people in all countries, Xi said. Besides its efforts and actions in the antiCOVID fight, China has made remarkable contributions to global causes aimed at alleviating poverty, tackling climate change and resuscitating the global economy. Because of the coronavirus and resulting economic recession, an additional population of about  million people could be pushed into extreme poverty, while the gap between rich and poor countries is very likely to grow. China, the first country to bring the coronavirus outbreak under control, has made historic achievements in eradicating absolute poverty despite the impact of the pandemic, contributing to over  percent of the global drive in this field. China has also continuously advanced SouthSouth cooperation and made tangible contributions to poverty eradication and debt relief in the developing world. Meanwhile, China has taken concrete actions to promote sustainable development, and stepped up its efforts in building a cleaner and better world. Notably, the country has announced its goal of striving to peak carbon dioxide emissions before  and achieve carbon neutrality before . Though meeting these targets will require tremendous hard work from China, the country, as Xi said, will step forward, take action, and get the job done when the interests of the entire worlds population are at stake. Also, China has never stopped working to bolster economic globalization, by following through on its fundamental policy of openingup, which has created more cooperation opportunities for other countries and accelerated global recovery and growth. For instance, despite the recession, Chinas foreign trade with countries along the Belt and Road totaled . trillion yuan about . trillion U.S. dollars, up  percent year on year, official data showed. Charles Onunaiju, director of the Abujabased Center for China Studies, said with the Forum on ChinaAfrica Cooperation and the Belt and Road Initiative, China has in recent years become an increasingly open, inclusive and confident player on the global stage. In this globalized era, stronger multilateralism is the way forward to tackle tough global challenges. In this context, China, in both words and deeds, has boosted confidence in upholding multilateralism and injected impetus into a joint response to global crises. In the future, China will continue to join forces with the international community to build an open, inclusive, clean and beautiful world that enjoys lasting peace, universal security and common prosperity.