Moderna aims to strengthen virus vaccine
2021-01-26 12:30
Boxes containing the Moderna COVID vaccine are prepared to be shipped at the McKesson distribution center in Olive Branch, Mississippi, US on Dec , . PhotoAgencies    Modernas COVID vaccine weakens new variants of the coronavirus that have emerged in the UK and South Africa, the company announced Monday. But the vaccine provokes less of response against the South African variant, and so the company said it is developing an alternative form of the vaccine that could be used as a booster shot. A Pfizer study released last week found that its vaccine probably protects against the British variant. More than two dozen countries have reported cases of the variants of the coronavirus found in South Africa and Brazil. On Monday, the US reported the first known case in the country of the variant found in Brazil. Health officials in Minnesota said the case involved a Minnesota resident with recent travel history to Brazil, according to The Washington Post. President Joe Biden on Monday reinstated COVID travel restrictions on most nonUS travelers from Brazil, Ireland, the UK and  other European countries that allow travel across open borders. He also added South Africa. The new requirements go into effect on Tuesday. White House press secretary Jen Psaki said South Africa was added because of concerns the variant has spread beyond that nation. Dr Anthony Fauci, the US top infectious disease expert, called Bidens decision to reinstate the travel restrictions and add South Africa prudent. As Moderna made its announcement, Merck  Co, one of the worlds leading vaccine makers, said it was stopping the development of both of its COVID vaccine candidates. The Kenilworth, New Jerseybased company said the shots generated a disappointing immune response to effectively protect people against the virus. Merck said it would now focus on advancing two experimental COVID drugs. The company said it expects test results for the pair of drugs in the coming weeks, and it could ask regulators to authorize use if the results are positive. Moderna said that results from studies show that its vaccine produced immunesystem agents known as neutralizing antibodies against all key emerging variants tested, including B... and B.., first identified in the UK and South Africa, respectively. While the studies showed no significant impact on triggering an immune response to the UK variant, there were sharply decreased antibody levels against the South African variant, Moderna said. In the event that this virus continues to mutate in this direction, and a year from now is still circulating in some way, we think its prudent that we have tools like a booster vaccine to address that, Stephen Hoge, Modernas president, told The Wall Street Journal. The booster candidate, mRNA., will advance into preclinical studies and a Phase  trial in the US. Moderna took  days to develop the original vaccine, and Tak Zaks, Modernas chief medical officer, told The New York Times he believes the company could make the booster shot hopefully a little faster this time, but not much. The study results havent yet been published or peerreviewed, but have been submitted to bioRxiv, which posts preliminary studies online. Moderna said its vaccine will be protective against the South African strain in the short term, but what is unknowable right now is what will happen in six months,  months, especially to the elderly because, as you know, they have a weaker immune system, Stphane Bancel, CEO of Moderna, said in an interview with CNBC on Monday. Because of that unknown ... we decided to take into the clinic, out of an abundance of caution, a new vaccine, he said. Meanwhile, the US reported a  percent drop in new coronavirus cases last week, while the number of people hospitalized in the US due to COVID also fell. The country reported more than , new cases for Monday, the eighth consecutive day the daily total was below ,, according to Johns Hopkins University data. The new cases are now averaging about , a day, after peaking at around ,. Fauci said the improvements appear to be a natural plateau after the holiday surge and not the effect of people who have been vaccinated. In California, a hot spot where hospitals have been overwhelmed by the number of COVID patients, new cases fell  percent in the past week. California lifted regional stayathome orders statewide on Monday, allowing restaurants to reopen for outdoor dining, and businesses like gyms and hair salons to reopen with some restrictions. Health officials cautioned that the COVID pandemic is far from over.