Turkey receives more Chinese COVID vaccines
2021-01-26 10:09
Serife Akay receives a shot of the Sinovacs CoronaVac COVID vaccine at a nursing home in Ankara, Turkey, on Jan , . PhotoAgencies    CAIRO  Turkey received on Monday . million more doses of COVID vaccines produced by the Chinese company Sinovac. Meanwhile, Palestinian Prime Minister Mohammed Ishtaye said that Palestine is studying the option of closing borders to limit the spread of the new coronavirus strain. A Turkish Airlines cargo plane loaded with the vaccines landed at Istanbul Airport early in the morning from Chinas capital Beijing. After the completion of the customs clearance formalities at the airport, the vaccines were transferred to several warehouses in Istanbul for the necessary security tests, a health ministry official told Xinhua. The official said the tests will last  days, and then the vaccines will be distributed to  provinces of the country to be used in the vaccination program. The latest shipment was part of the second planned consignment of  million doses, Turkish Health Minister Fahrettin Koca announced on Sunday. Turkey launched the mass vaccine campaign on Jan  after receiving the first batch of  million doses of COVID vaccines from China at the end of December . Nurettin Yiyit, chief physician of the Feriha Oz Emergency Hospital in Istanbul, said if we use our maximum capacity, we are in a position to vaccinate people in our country in a short period of time, as long as one month. The physician also pointed out that the Turkish healthcare professionals always express their confidence in inactive vaccines like the Sinovacs shots. There are no serious side effects reported so far, he noted, adding this factor increases the trust of the citizens in the vaccination. According to the health ministrys data, more than . million Turkish citizens have been vaccinated so far, and the program is going on as planned. Also on Monday, Palestinian Prime Minister Mohammed Ishtaye said that Palestine is studying the option of closing its border crossings to limit the spread of the new coronavirus strain. Ishtaye told the weekly meeting of the Palestinian Authority cabinet held in Ramallah that Palestine is studying with Jordan and Israel the choice of closing all its border crossings to prevent the spread of the new COVID strain. Palestine has recently reported  cases infected with the new strain. Wearing face masks, washing hands, and abiding by social distancing are the only available weapons in our hands until now to combat the spread of the virus before we receive the vaccines soon, Ishtaye said in a press statement. The Palestinian government in the West Bank, and Hamas movement, which rules the Gaza Strip, have been imposing lockdowns and precautionary measures since last March to prevent the spread of coronavirus. The wide commitment to the lockdown measures had led to positive results, and the occupancy rate decreased significantly in the hospitals designated for coronavirus in the Palestinian territories, Ishtaye added. Meanwhile, Mai alKaila, the Palestinian Health Minister, told a news briefing that Palestine recorded five more deaths,  new COVID cases, and  recoveries in the West Bank, the Gaza Strip, and East Jerusalem. Irans health ministry reported , new COVID cases on Monday, raising the total nationwide number to ,,. The pandemic has so far claimed , lives in Iran, up by  in the past  hours. The Iraqi Health Ministry reported  new COVID cases, bringing the total nationwide number of cases to ,. The ministry reported in a statement seven new deaths, raising the death toll from the infectious virus to ,. It also said that , cases recovered during the day, bringing the total recoveries to ,. Israels Ministry of Health reported , new COVID cases on Monday, bringing the total tally in the country to ,. The death toll from the COVID reached , after  new fatalities were added, while the number of patients in serious condition decreased from , to ,, out of , hospitalized patients. The total recoveries rose to ,, with , newly recovered cases. According to the ministry, the number of people vaccinated against the COVID in Israel has surpassed . million, or . percent of its total population, since the vaccination campaign began on Dec , . Lebanon registered on Monday , new COVID infections, bringing the tally to ,, the health ministry reported. Death toll from the virus went up by  to , in the country. Firas Abiad, director of Rafic Hariri University Hospital, warned on Monday against easing lockdown measures, which would lead to losing what has been achieved over the past weeks. Moroccos total COVID infections rose to , as  new cases were registered during the past  hours. The death toll stood at , as  COVID patients died in the last  hours. The total number of recoveries from COVID increased to , after , new ones were added. The first batch of coronavirus vaccines developed by Chinas Sinopharm company will arrive in Morocco on Jan . Kuwaits COVID cases increased by  to , on the same day, while the death toll rose by two to . The Kuwaiti Health Ministry also announced the recovery of  more patients, taking the total recoveries to ,. The Omani health ministry announced  new COVID infections, raising the total number of confirmed cases in the sultanate to ,. Meanwhile,  people recovered during the past  hours, taking the overall recoveries to ,, while one death was reported, pushing the tally up to ,.