Lockdown or not  France weighs up new rules to curb COVID
2021-01-26 10:03
A view shows the deserted Iena Bridge near the Eiffel Tower during a nationwide curfew, from  pm to  am, due to restrictions against the spread of the coronavirus disease COVID, in Paris, France, Jan , . PhotoAgencies    PARIS  After many European countries went into new lockdown to cope with an exponential rise in COVID, eyes are now on France where calls are growing to introduce a new confinement, but questions linger on when the country will take such a move and how the lockdown will be hard or soft? French government, for now, sticks to a package of measures it has already imposed, including a  pm to  am curfew and tough borders control, although it admitted that the situation is worrying. But to epidemiologists, stricter rules, notably a nationwide confinement, are needed in light of the more infectious virus variant first detected in Britain. Speaking on the sidelines of a visit to the regional health agency of IledeFrance, French Prime Minister Jean Castex warned earlier in the day that the epidemic indicators were worrying, pledging to amplify the strategy to combat the coronavirus. Decisions will have to be taken this week, he told reporters without elaborating. Asked whether the government would order people to stay at home once again, French Minister of State for European Affairs Clement Beaune told Radio Classique that nothing yet has been decided. Depending on the impact of the curfew on the health situation, additional measures will be taken or not. There are scenarios on the table but no decision yet, he said earlier on Monday. If the nightly ban on peoples movement falls short to limit the virus circulation, a new lockdown would be ordered, according to Health Minister Olivier Veran. We need the curfew to show results, he told Le Parisian newspaper on Sunday. In a bestcase scenario, we will manage to reduce the epidemic pressure. If not, we will not wait for the month of March before acting, he added. On Jan , a nighttime ban on peoples movement, in force since midDecember, was brought forward by two hours in the French territory to reduce social mixing and halt a surge in COVID infections. Catering and event businesses remain closed and public gatherings are still banned. However, the average number of new infections has increased from , to more than , currently. Some , patients are put on ventilator, occupying nearly  percent of the countrys , resuscitation beds. On top of this, the more contagious variant accounts for up to  percent of cases in certain French regions, notably in Paris and its surrounding areas. In its latest report, the French National Institute of Health and Medical Research Inserm expected the COVID new strain VOC would become dominant at home between late February and midMarch, depending on the epidemic evolution. To JeanFrancois Delfraissy, head of the scientific council that advises the government on the epidemic, the virus new strains have completely changed the pandemic situation. If we do not tighten regulations, we will find ourselves in an extremely difficult situation from midMarch...In a difficult situation, the quicker you take a decision, the more effective it is, the more it can be of limited duration, he said. We probably need to go towards a confinement. Whether that needs to be a very strict confinement like the first one in March or a softer form like in November, that is a political decision, the French immunologist told BFMTV television. France was in a national lockdown from March  to May  to contain the first wave of the epidemic. Two weeks into the lockdown, daily infections reached the peak at , on March . But the figure dropped to a little above , in the first half of April and then went below , in May. However, the number crept back up after summer holidays, and reached a record , on Nov , plunging the eurozones second largest economy into a second confinement at the end of October. The lessstricter lockdown helped reduce the number of infections to an average of , cases in early December . To Djillali Annane, head of intensive care unit at the RaymondPoincare hospital in Paris suburbs, it was necessary to impose a new confinement to reduce cases to below , per day, otherwise testing and isolation strategy will not be effective. If we now strictly lock down for a few weeks, and we seize this moment to further accelerate the vaccination...we can then probably open many economic and cultural activities in the spring, Annane said. In any new lockdown, businesses should be open to help already struggling companies, according to Geoffroy Roux de Bezieux, head of the MEDEF French business group. If it will be a new confinement, it must be as short as possible, because the French economy is in great difficulty. What is required is to let all businesses open, he told RMC radio. An Elabe survey released on Jan  found that  percent of people were expecting a new order to stay at home, with a large majority of them saying they would respect the rule.