California lifts regional stayathome order for all regions
2021-01-26 09:54
People wear masks as they walk along a side walk after California lifted its regional stayathome orders across the state during the outbreak of the coronavirus disease COVID, in California, US, Jan , . PhotoAgencies    LOS ANGELES  California lifted all regional stayathome orders in the most populous state in the United States, public health officials announced on Monday. Although three of Californias five designated regions, including county San Joaquin Valley, county Bay Area and county Southern California, were still under the order, state officials said fourweek intensive care unit ICU capacity projections for these regions are above  percent, the threshold that allows regions to exit the order. Southern Californias ICU capacity is still at zero to date while the San Joaquin Valley is up to . percent capacity, showed data released by the state health authorities. The California Department of Public Health tweeted Monday that week ICU projections ending Feb  in Southern California, San Joaquin Valley, Bay Area, Greater Sacramento and Northern California will rise to . percent, . percent,  percent, . percent and . percent, respectively. At the start of last December, California Governor Gavin Newsom announced plans for the regional stayathome order to contain the pandemic based on hospital capacity, which is designed to be triggered when fewer than  percent of beds are available in ICU for a region. Southern California and San Joaquin Valley regions had been the first part of the state with a population of around  million to enter the stayathome order since Dec  after the ICU capacity in the two regions dropped below  percent. The county Greater Sacramento region exited the order on Jan . The rural Northern California region which includes  counties has never entered the order. Newsom said in a news conference on Monday that the state has seen some flattening of the curve but is still not out of the woods. We are in a position projected four weeks forward with a significant decline in the case rates, positivity rates, we are anticipating still more decline in hospitalizations and more declines in ICUs, the governor said, noting thats why were lifting that stayathome order effective immediately today. Officials said that the lift of regional stayathome orders will allow all counties statewide to return to the rules and framework of the states Blueprint for a Safer Economy and colorcoded tiers that indicate which activities and businesses are open based on local case rates and test positivity. The change will allow businesses such as outdoor dining and hair salons to resume operations in some counties in the state. But the majority of the counties are still in the strictest, or purple tier. California is slowly starting to emerge from the most dangerous surge of this pandemic yet, which is the light at the end of the tunnel weve been hoping for, said California Health and Human Services Secretary Mark Ghaly in a press release from the California Department of Public Health. Seven weeks ago, our hospitals and frontline medical workers were stretched to their limits, but Californians heard the urgent message to stay home when possible and our surge after the December holidays did not overwhelm the health care system to the degree we had feared. Officials noted that While there are positive signs that the virus is spreading at a slower rate across the state, the COVID pandemic is far from over. They urged Californians to continue to follow public health guidance and get the vaccine when its their turn. Californians heard the urgent message to stay home as much as possible and accepted that challenge to slow the surge and save lives, said Dr. Tomas Aragon, director of the California Department of Public Health and the State Health Officer. Together, we changed our activities knowing our shortterm sacrifices would lead to longerterm gains. COVID is still here and still deadly, so our work is not over, but its important to recognize our collective actions saved lives and we are turning a critical corner. The California Department of Public Health reported , new COVID infections and  more deaths on Sunday, pushing its cumulative cases up to ,, with , related deaths. The Golden State became the first state in the country to register more than  million COVID cases since the start of the pandemic earlier this month.