mln COVID cases worldwide expected this week WHO chief
2021-01-26 09:15
Photo taken in Brussels, Belgium on Aug ,  shows World Health Organization WHO DirectorGeneral Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus attending an online press conference held in Geneva, Switzerland. PhotoXinhua    GENEVA  The number of COVID cases worldwide is expected to reach  million within this week, said the DirectorGeneral of the World Health Organization WHO Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus. A year ago today, fewer than , cases of COVID had been reported to WHO, including just  cases outside China. This week, we expect to reach  million reported cases, Tedros said at a WHO press briefing on Monday. Numbers can make us numb to what they represent every death is someones parent, someones partner, someones child, someones friend, he added, and called for vaccination of health workers and older people to be underway in all countries within the first  days of . He also quoted two latest reports to show that without equitable access to COVID vaccines, the world would have to face not only a catastrophic moral failure, but also an economic failure. According to a new report from the International Labor Organization, which analyzes the impact of the pandemic on the global labor market, some . percent of global working hours were lost in , resulting in a decline in global labor income equivalent to . trillion US dollars. The report projects that most countries will recover in the second half of , depending on vaccination rollout, and recommends international support for the vaccine rollout in low and middleincome countries and to promote economic and employment recovery. The second report, commissioned by the International Chamber of Commerce Research Foundation, finds that vaccine nationalism could cost the global economy up to . trillion dollars, almost half of which, about . trillion, would be incurred in the wealthiest economies. In contrast, the financing gap for the Access to COVID Tools Accelerator, a WHOled initiative, is  billion dollars this year, according to Tedros, who added that the ACT Accelerator, if fully funded, would return up to  dollars for every dollar invested. Vaccine nationalism might serve shortterm political goals. But its in every nations own medium and longterm economic interest to support vaccine equity, he said.