President envisions success of  Games
2021-01-26 06:56
Technicians in Beijing prepare the playing surface at the Wukesong Ice Sports Center, the ice hockey training venue for the  Winter Olympics, on Wednesday. WEI XIAOHAOCHINA DAILY    China will complete the preparatory work for the Beijing  Olympic and Paralympic Winter Games as scheduled to ensure the events are a full success, President Xi Jinping pledged on Monday. Xi made the remark in a telephone conversation with International Olympic Committee President Thomas Bach. China has taken the lead in controlling the COVID pandemic at home and its economy has begun to recover, creating favorable conditions for holding the Games, Xi said. He said the nation has been steadily moving forward with the preparatory work for the Games amid the difficulties resulting from the pandemic by implementing strict epidemic control measures. Construction of the venues for the Games and other infrastructure facilities has made marked progress at the current stage, and other related work is also going full steam ahead, Xi said, adding that Beijing will make a unique contribution to the Olympics as the only city in the world to host both summer and winter Olympic Games. He commended the IOCs full efforts in responding to the pandemic as well as in upholding the unity and stability of the Olympic Games, saying that China will always support the committees work. China stands ready to work with the IOC and other countries to make efforts to hold the Tokyo Olympics as well as the Beijing  Olympic and Paralympic Winter Games in a safe and smooth manner, he said. Bach congratulated China for its outstanding achievements in fighting the pandemic as well as ensuring economic recovery under the leadership of Xi, saying that the country will become an important engine for world economic growth. He said the IOC supports China in hosting the Winter Olympics in  with a green, inclusive, open and clean approach. The IOC stays committed to upholding the Olympic spirit and is opposed to politicizing sporting activities, Bach said. Also on Monday night, Xi held a telephone conversation with Prime Minister of Dominica Roosevelt Skerrit. While hailing the sound development of bilateral ties over the past  years, Xi said China is willing to provide antipandemic assistance to developing countries, including Dominica, and will strive to make the vaccines for COVID accessible and affordable to people of all countries. Skerrit called China a trustworthy and genuine friend, and said Dominica supports the oneChina principle and Chinas peaceful reunification.