I will never forget my  years in the UK Chinese envoy
2021-01-26 06:00
Liu Xiaoming, Chinese ambassador to the United Kingdom.    As  brings fresh opportunities and new hopes, I will be heading home upon completing my yeartour of office as the eleventh ambassador of New China to the UK. I am the longestserving both in the history of ChinaUK relations and of all Chinese ambassadors of all time. Looking back at the nearly , days I have spent here, I find myself filled with a myriad of feelings, not least because this is the last tour in my diplomatic career of  years. This posting has given me much honour and many memories to cherish. And I feel grateful to my British friends who have given me invaluable support as I have discharged my duties here in the UK. In these  years, I have been to all corners of the UK, engaging with people from all walks of life, exploring ideas and promoting cooperation. There are so many things I shall never forget the competitions in the Olympic arena, the chimes of Big Ben, the New Years Eve fireworks on the Thames, the degree ceremonies at the University of Nottingham and the University of Huddersfield, the smiles on the faces of children meeting giant pandas Sweetie and Sunshine. Nor shall I forget the deep affection of my friends in the UK. In these  years, I witnessed and took part in mutual visits by Chinese and British leaders. I take particular pride in my humble part in the successful state visit by President Xi Jinping to the UK in , which ushered in the ChinaUK Golden Era. This visit left an indelible mark on the history of ChinaUK relations by highlighting the strategic, practical, inclusive and global significance of this relationship. I also had the honour of receiving Premier Wen Jiabao and Premier Li Keqiang in the UK, travelling in China with Prime Minister Cameron, Prime Minister May and the Duke of Cambridge, and attending meetings of the ChinaUK dialogues. These visits and dialogues enhanced communication, deepened trust, defined what relationship we wanted and advanced cooperation. In these  years, ChinaUK trade, economic cooperation, and cultural and peopletopeople exchanges yielded fruitful results from  to , trade in goods surged from . billion to . billion Chinese investment in the UK and British exports to China rose by nearly  times the number of Chinese students in the UK and visits between the people of our countries doubled, with the former growing from just over , to , and the latter from  million to over  million. China and the UK are major countries with global influence. These  years have seen our cooperation increase in width and depth. There is no better example than our joint response in the face of the challenge of a century  the Covid pandemic. China and the UK have come to each others aid, shared experience on prevention and control, worked together on research and development of vaccines and medicines, and joined hands to advance international cooperation. The friendship between the peoples of China and the UK has deepened. The beautiful voices of the children from the Confucius Classroom choir at Millburn Primary School in Northern Ireland singing Let the World be Full of Love is a memory I will cherish. Another highlight of my tour of  years was the purchase of the former Royal Mint Court as the new embassy premises, more than  years after Chinas first diplomatic mission abroad moved into  Portland Place in . This project of the century, on the bank of the foreverflowing River Thames, will witness the growth of ChinaUK relations in the new century. These  years have not always been smooth sailing. Given our differences in history, culture, social system and development stage, it is natural that China and the UK do not always see eye to eye. But it is important that differences are handled appropriately. A review of the history and experience of ChinaUK exchanges since the establishment of an ambassadorial relationship reveals the most important lesson when international law and the basic norms governing statetostate relations are observed, the relationship will move forward otherwise, it will suffer setbacks or even regress. I hope that China and the UK will keep in mind this lesson from history, respect each other, build a relationship that transcends differences in social system and ideology, and engage in mutuallybeneficial cooperation. This is in the best interest of the peoples of both countries and beyond. My ambassadorial mission may be drawing to a close, but ChinaUK friendship is a cause that goes on. As a British military song goes, Old soldiers never die, they simply fade away. I will continue to follow and support the development of ChinaUK relations, and I believe that with the care of the people of all walks of life from both countries, this relationship will withstand the test of the cold winter and embrace a warm spring at an early date. Liu Xiaoming is the Chinese ambassador to the UK. The article was originally published in Daily Telegraph on  January .