Jab mandate puts Novaks Aussie defense in doubt
2021-10-21 09:36
Serbias Novak Djokovic reacts during his final match against Russias Daniil Medvedev during Australian Open mens singles final atMelbourne Park, Melbourne, Australia, Feb , . PhotoAgencies    All players who want a visa to compete in the Australian Open will need to be fully vaccinated for COVID, the countrys immigration minister said on Wednesday, putting Novak Djokovics title defense and Grand Slam record bid in doubt. Djokovic, who is level with Roger Federer and Rafa Nadal on  Grand Slam titles, has declined to reveal his vaccination status, and said he is unsure if he will defend his Australian Open crown. Clarifying Australias visa requirements, minister for immigration Alex Hawke said foreign players would need to have had two vaccination shots to play the Grand Slam at Melbourne Park in January. Youll need to be double vaccinated to visit Australia. Thats a universal application, not just to tennis players. I mean that every visitor to Australia will need to be double vaccinated, Hawke told Australian Broadcasting Corporation radio. I dont have a message to Novak. I have a message to everybody that wishes to visit Australia. Hell need to be double vaccinated, Hawke said. The rule could exclude scores of players from the tournament, though vaccination rates are rising. More than  percent of players on the professional mens ATP tour are vaccinated and at least  percent on the womens WTA circuit, according to recent media reports. Both tours have urged players to get vaccinated but some have voiced reservations. Russian mens US Open champion Daniil Medvedev and German world No  Alex Zverev have expressed skepticism about the shot, although their vaccination status remains unknown. Greek world No  Stefanos Tsitsipas said in August he would only get vaccinated if it became mandatory, though later said he planned to have shots before the end of the year. Australias health minister, Greg Hunt, said the countrys rules were about protecting Australians. They apply to everyone without fear or favor. It doesnt matter whether you are number one in the world or you are anything else, he told a media conference on Wednesday. Australia has shut its international borders to noncitizens and nonpermanent residents for  months, though there have been some highprofile exceptions. International travel is expected to begin for Australian citizens within weeks, with tourism expected to resume in early . Authorities in Victoria state, which hosts the Australian Open, said they would make no special deals with unvaccinated athletes to allow them to compete there even if they had secured visas to enter the country. Melbourne, Australias second largest city, has been locked down since August due to an outbreak of the highly infectious Delta variant but will begin to open up on Friday, when  percent of the adult population in Victoria is expected to be fully vaccinated. Reuters