Australia approves first COVID vaccine for use
2021-01-25 11:18
A paramedic wearing a protective face mask and shield assists people waiting in line at a coronavirus disease COVID testing clinic at Mona Vale Hospital in the wake of a new outbreak in the Northern Beaches area of Sydney on Dec , . PhotoAgencies    CANBERRA  Australias medical regulator has provisionally approved the PfizerBioNTech COVID vaccine for use in the country. The Therapeutic Goods Administration TGA, the countrys medical regulator, announced on Monday morning that the Pfizer vaccine met safety, efficacy and quality standards and has been approved for people aged  and older. It is the first vaccine to be approved for use in Australia. The decision was welcomed by Prime Minister Scott Morrison on Monday when he attended a press conference in Canberra. Our priority has always been to keep Australians safe and protect lives and livelihoods, he said. Todays approval is another big step forward for our community, particularly in the protection of our most vulnerable people. Australians will receive two doses of the Pfizer vaccine at least  days apart. The government is now planning to begin vaccinations in late February  slightly later than the midFebruary start date it had previously announced as a result of shipment and production delays, with healthcare workers and the elderly to be given priority access. In Australia the vaccine will be rolled out in five phases over the coming months and, over time, will involve more than , vaccination administration sites. Greg Hunt, the minister for health, said that the TGA had placed safety above all else during the approval process. This approval and the upcoming rollout of the vaccine will play an important part in our ability to manage the pandemic in , he said. The Australian government has purchased  million doses of the Pfizer vaccine, enough to inoculate  million people against COVID, and more than  million doses of that developed by University of Oxford and AstraZeneca, which must pass TGAs assessment and approval processes. Mondays announcement came about one year since Australia confirmed its first case of COVID. According to the latest figures updated on Sunday evening from the Department of Health, Australia as of Sunday afternoon had , confirmed cases,  of which remain active, and  deaths, most of which were in aged care facilities in Victoria during the states devastating second wave of infections. Despite Australias relative success in preventing the spread of the virus Chief Medical Officer CMO Paul Kelly said that Australians would have to learn to live with coronavirus. We will control it more this year than we did last year, he told the Special Broadcasting Service SBS in an recent interview. But were going to have to learn to live with this virus. I dont think its going to be completely eradicated anytime soon, he said.