Bucks show rivals should fear the deer again
2021-10-21 09:03
Giannis Antetokounmpo drives to the basket during the Milwaukee Bucks NBA opener at home to the Brooklyn Nets on Tuesday. The defending champion Bucks won . USA TODAY SPORTS    MILWAUKEE  Giannis Antetokounmpo and the Milwaukee Bucks didnt let the celebration of the franchises first NBA championship in half a century distract them as they opened their title defense. In his first game since scoring  points in a titleclinching Game  NBA Finals victory over the Phoenix Suns, Antetokounmpo had  points,  rebounds and seven assists to lead the Bucks to a  victory over the Brooklyn Nets on Tuesday night. Were part of history, Antetokounmpo said. Im excited. But now its over with. Weve got to focus on building good habits, keep moving forward and keep playing good basketball and hopefully we can repeat this again this year, next year and all the years that were going to be here down the road. Khris Middleton and Pat Connaughton each added  points to help the Bucks withstand the loss of Jrue Holiday, who sat out the second half with a bruised right heel after scoring  points. Bucks coach Mike Budenholzer said MRI results on Holiday were encouraging. Kevin Durant led the Nets with  points and  rebounds. Patty Mills scored  points and shot  of  from point range. James Harden added  points. We werent very good, Brooklyn coach Steve Nash said. If youre not playing at a high level against the champs, youre not going to win. The Nets were missing star guard Kyrie Irving, who isnt with the team due to his refusal to get a COVID vaccine. A New York mandate requires professional athletes on local teams to be vaccinated to practice or play in public venues. Rather than using Irving exclusively in road games, the Nets decided he wouldnt play or practice with them at all. After receiving their rings, raising a banner and watching a highlight video of their first NBA championship since , the Bucks defeated the team that nearly eliminated them in the second round of the playoffs. Antetokounmpo acknowledged that he teared up a little bit during the ceremony. When they were playing those videos, you cannot help yourself but get emotional, Antetokounmpo said. Looking back to the journey, where we started from and where we are right now. Milwaukee rallied from a  deficit and won Game  at Brooklyn in overtime after Durants foot barely crept across the point arc in the final seconds of regulation, turning a potential serieswinning pointer into a gametying point basket. The Bucks went on a  run in the first quarter to extend a  advantage to . They got the lead back up to  again in the second quarter and were ahead  at halftime. The lead never dropped below seven the rest of the way. We were climbing uphill all game, Durant said. Fancy rings Milwaukees championship rings feature the popular fan slogan Fear The Deer. The rings have  diamonds on the top to represent the Bucks total wins under current ownership. There are  emeraldshape diamonds on each side, symbolizing their  playoff wins last season and their  division titles in franchise history. Agencies Via Xinhua