British PM says new variant may carry higher risk of death
2021-01-23 03:16
FILE PHOTO British Prime Minister Boris Johnson takes questions in parliament in London, Britain January ,  in this still image taken from a video. PhotoAgencies    LONDON  British Prime Minister Boris Johnson said on Friday the new English variant of COVID may be associated with a higher level of mortality although he said evidence showed that both vaccines being used in the country are effective against it. Johnson said that the impact of the new variant, which is already known to be more transmissable, was putting the health service under intense pressure. Weve been informed today that in addition to spreading more quickly, it also now appears that there is some evidence that the new variant  the variant that was first discovered in London and the southeast of England  may be associated with a higher degree of mortality, he told a news briefing. Johnson said however that all the current evidence showed both vaccines remained effective against old and new variants. Chief Scientific Adviser Patrick Vallance said the evidence about mortality levels was not yet strong, and came from a series of different bits of information, stressing there was great uncertainty around the data. He said that once people reached hospital, there was no greater risk, but there were signs that people who had the UK variant were at more risk overall. Theres no real evidence of an increase in mortality for those in hospital. However, when data are looked at in terms of those whove been tested positive... there is evidence that theres an increased risk for those who have the new variant, compared to the old virus, he said. He said that for a man in his sixties, the average risk was that  in , people who got infected would be expected to die, but that this rose to roughly  or  people in , with the new variant. I want to stress that theres a lot of uncertainty around these numbers and we need more work to get a precise handle on it, he said. But it obviously is a concern that this has an increase in mortality as well as an increase in transmissibility. CAUTION The warning about the higher risk of death from the new variant, which was identified in England late last year, came as a fresh blow after the country had earlier been buoyed by news the number of new COVID infections was estimated to be shrinking by as much as  a day. Data published earlier on Friday showed that . million people had been given their first dose of a vaccine, with , receiving it in the past  hours, a record high so far. England and Scotland announced new restrictions on Jan.  to stem a surge in the disease fuelled by the highly transmissible new variant of the coronavirus, which has led to record numbers of daily deaths and infections this month. The latest estimates from the health ministry suggest that the number of new infections was shrinking by between  and  a day. Last week, it was thought cases were growing by much as , and the turnaround gave hope that the spread of the virus was being curbed, although the ministry urged caution. But the Office for National Statistics estimated that the prevalence overall remained high, with about one in  people having the virus. Britain has recorded more than . million infections and nearly , deaths  the worlds fifthhighest toll  while the economy has been hammered. Figures on Friday showed public debt at its highest level as a proportion of GDP since , and retailers had their worst year on record. Reuters