Californias runaway cases strain hospitals
2021-01-22 10:12
Patients are held in the hallway as St Mary Medical Center resorts to using tents outside to handle the overflow at its  bed hospital during the outbreak of the coronavirus disease COVID in Apple Valley, California, US, Jan , . PhotoAgencies    Worsthit US state tops m infections, and Britain logs record deaths for a day As the coronavirus deepens its grip on the world, California has become the first state in the United States to record more than  million infections and Britain has suffered another record for singleday deaths. The California Department of Public Health on Wednesday confirmed , new COVID infections in an update, pushing its cumulative cases to ,,. The state is the most populous US state with around  million residents. Since the start of the pandemic, it took about  months for California to reach the threshold of  million confirmed cases on Nov ,, and a further six weeks to reach the  million mark on Dec . The state went on to hit the  million level in four weeks. On Wednesday the state also reported its secondhighest number of COVID deaths, at , behind the record of  reported on Jan . Hospitals throughout the state remain overwhelmed with patients seeking treatment and about  percent of the state is under stayathome orders due in part to limited capacity in intensive care units, according to a report from CNN. Californias rollout of vaccinations has been frustratingly slow since the country started its mass vaccination in late December, but the state authority said recently that the state is making steady progress in the vaccination campaign. Today we are reporting ,, doses administered, so this exceeds our  million doses goal, California Health and Human Services Secretary Mark Ghaly said on Tuesday in an update. We still have data coming in. Its very much like testing was, where even if a test was administered on a certain day, it took a few days for the data system to catch up and count it as a test, said Ghaly, adding that the state is still tallying up the latest information. According to the latest data from the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, as of Wednesday, California had administered around ,,  shots of the more than . million doses received from the federal government. This works out to , doses per , residents, one of the slowest rates in the US