California steps up rollout of vaccines
2021-01-21 12:07
Dr Richard Dang, assistant professor USC School of Pharmacy administers COVID vaccine to Ashley Van Dyke L as massvaccination of healthcare workers takes place at Dodger Stadium in Los Angeles, California, US, Jan , . PhotoAgencies    Despite earlier reports of slow vaccine rollouts, California officials said that the state is making steady progress in its mass campaign. Today we are reporting ,, doses administered, so this exceeds our  million doses goal, said California Health and Human Services Secretary Dr Mark Ghalyon Tuesday in an update. We still have data coming in. Its very much like testing was, where even if a test was administered on a certain day, it took a few days for the data system to catch up and count it as a test, said Ghaly, adding that the state is still tallying up the latest information from Friday. In the nations most populous state, ,, people have contracted the virus and , have died. Despite the high caseload number, the states rollout of vaccinations has so far been frustratingly slow. According to the latest data from the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention CDC, as of Wednesday, California has administered ,,  shots of the more than . million doses received from the federal government, which means , doses per , residents, one of the slowest rates in the US. The CDC estimated that ,,  Californians have received one or more doses, and , of them have gotten two or more doses. There have been ,, doses distributed across the US, and ,, doses have been administered, the CDC reported. California officials assessment painted a rosier picture. California Governor Gavin Newsom pledged to inoculate  million more people against COVID in a day sprint. When Newsom made the announcement on Jan , the state already had administered nearly a halfmillion doses. California had initially hoped to vaccinate  million people by the end of , but it fell short of meeting that goal. Ill tell you that because of these data delays, that we are confident that even more than the . million individuals that we captured the data about, we believe that the number is an underestimate of the true number of Californians who have been vaccinated, which is really the ultimate goal and the best news, Ghaly said. He said that just more than .  million vaccines have been shipped to California. Officials still are trying to figure out how many doses each health department across the state has already received. I know how frustrating it must seem now to folks in LA County. Were not done with our health care workers. And we actually dont have enough vaccine right now to be able to get done more quickly with our healthcare workers, Los Angeles County Public Health Director Barbara Ferrer said. Logistics challenges associated with managing a vaccination site, as well as finding enough clinicians to perform the injections in a strained healthcare system, have all been cited as causes for the slow vaccine rollout. Healthcare workers in Los Angeles County, the states epicenter of the COVID pandemic, had received more than , vaccine doses of vaccine, including more than , first doses and over , second doses as of Jan , according to the Los Angeles Times. Officials estimated that roughly , healthcare workers still needed to be vaccinated. Los Angeles County is now offering vaccine to people only phase A. Those eligible include healthcare workers who have the potential for direct and indirect exposure to patients or infectious materials, as well as residents of nursing homes. County public health officials expected that all eligible healthcare workers will receive their first dose in the next two weeks. They will be able to move on to the next phase of vaccinations in early February. Those eligible in the next phase include people age  and older, those who work in education, child care, emergency services, food and agriculture, as well as homeless or incarcerated individuals.