Stage set for inauguration of Joe Biden
2021-01-20 12:03
US National Guard troops on patrol in downtown Washington on Jan , , one day before Joe Biden will be sworn in as the th president of the United States. Photo by Zhao HuanxinChina Daily    The stage is now surrounded by tall fences and patrolled by extra police officers. Two weeks ago, hundreds of people stormed up the steps of that stage behind where Joe Biden will be sworn in as the th president of the United States and broke into the Capitol. When Biden takes the oath of office on Wednesday while three former presidents  but not Bidens predecessor  sit nearby, he will face an increasingly polarized, pessimistic and pained nation, according to the latest national NBC News poll. More than  in  voters believe the country is on the wrong track, another  in  think the next four years will remain politically divided, and a majority say they are mainly worried and pessimistic about the nations future, the TV network reported on the eve of the inauguration. Outgoing President Donald Trump, in a farewell speech Tuesday, touted his legacy, and wished luck to the next administration without mentioning Bidens name. Biden flew into Washington on Tuesday afternoon after an emotional sendoff in Delaware, where he told supporters, theres always light after the dark times. His entrance to the capital and Trumps final full day as president coincided with the news that the number of deaths from COVID in the US surged past ,, the worst public health crisis in decades. Biden and VicePresidentelect Kamala Harris attended a ceremony at the Lincoln Memorial on Tuesday, grieving for the victims of the pandemic and vowing to begin to heal the country. His biggest test after he is sworn in will be continuing to be presidential  above the partisan bickering, according to William Banks, distinguished professor emeritus at the Syracuse University College of Law in New York. Biden also will seek common ground to reach compromise on new policies to expedite his agenda in Congress on climate, energy, immigration and pandemic relief. Banks said the unprecedented level of security in Washington is justified, because the risk of violence remains high. The pandemic, coupled with the steppedup security in Washington, unseen since the Sept , , attacks, will reduce the traditionally joyous celebration witnessed by thousands of spectators to a gathering of a few. Tens of thousands of armed National Guard troops and other law enforcement officers have turned the US capital into a fortress, where its iconic monuments are closed, along with the National Mall. A window displayed on a bus stop near the State Department shows the photos of the Jan  protesters, seeking tips from the public to help identify those suspected of assault on federal officers at the US Capitol. Five people, including a police officer, died in the assault. Cal Jillson, a political scientist and historian at Southern Methodist University in Dallas, also said Bidens inaugural address likely will focus on national unity, but he will also highlight the importance of more effectively addressing the coronavirus and speeding up the economic recovery. The International Monetary Fund has predicted the US economy to contract by . percent in . The number of US workers applying for unemployment claims last week posted the biggest weekly gain since the pandemic hit last March, according to US Labor Department figures. Jillson said most presidential inaugurations are national celebrations, even for many of those whose candidate didnt win the election. This inauguration takes place in a more divided nation. President Biden will have to lower the temperature of our national politics while slowly pulling the nation together, he told China Daily. Biden wants Congress to act quickly on a massive stimulus package to revive the economy and has a target of seeing  million shots of coronavirus vaccine injected within his first  days in office. However, Jillson noted that Bidens biggest challenge will be addressing the polarization in the public and the Congress. Simple competence in distributing and administering the coronavirus vaccine would go a long way toward meeting that challenge, he said. Stanley Renshon, a political scientist at City University of New York, said he expected Biden to emphasize overcoming divisions, bringing Americans together and taking immediate steps to put the country on the right path. His biggest test will be governing a deeply divided county with a veneer of moderation while attempting to cloak a very liberal Democratic policy agenda that is being pushed decisively leftward. That is not a recipe for success, Renshon said. Biden also should signal to the world that the US will recalibrate after four years of Trump, according to Edward Frantz, a presidential historian at the University of Indianapolis. How do you talk about returning to new normal while also not seeming arrogant about the United States position in the world  especially after whats transpired over the last four years of the Trump administration and also with what foreign observers watched in horror as the riots transpired, Frantz was quoted by The Associated Press on Monday. Francis Fukuyama, a famed political scientist, noted that where the US goes after Bidens inauguration is anyones guess. He said the major uncertainty is what will happen within the Republican Party. More than half of voters say they believe there was no widespread voter fraud in the  presidential election, but up to  percent Republicans say that they believe there was widespread voter fraud, according to a Quinnipiac University national poll released on Jan . Biden winning the White House with a bare Democratic majority in Congress wont be enough for the United States to recover its international standing Trumpism must be repudiated and delegitimized root and branch, much as McCarthyism was in the s, Fukuyama wrote for Foreign Affairs on Monday. As to foreign policy, Bidens biggest test ultimately will be at home, according to the Bloomberg Editorial Board. The new president must persuade Americans of something many have forgotten  that engaging with the world will add to, not subtract from, their countrys security and prosperity, it said in an oped article last week.