Another new COVID variant identified in several large outbreaks in California
2021-01-19 14:23
COVID massvaccination of healthcare workers takes place at Dodger Stadium in Los Angeles, California, US, Jan , . PhotoAgencies    LOS ANGELES  The California Department of Public Health CDPH revealed that another new COVID variant, which is different from B... first found in Britain, was increasingly detected in multiple counties throughout the state with experts warning that it may be resistant to vaccine. According to a document released by the states healthcare authority on Sunday, the variant strain known as LR, which was first identified in Denmark in March , showed up in California as early as May and had been circulating in the state, especially in Santa Clara County. The LR variant has been identified more frequently since November, the document said, adding that it is too soon to know how prevalent the variant is statewide, nationally or globally. At genomic sequencing labs, the new variant went from being found in . percent of samples to about  percent within less than a month, according to Charles Chiu, a virologist and professor of laboratory medicine from University of California San Francisco. The CDPH said it was common to identify variants of viruses and it was working with the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention CDC, local public health departments and laboratory sequencing partners to learn more about the variant, including how it spreads. Santa Clara County Health Officer Dr. Sara Cody admitted that the variant was identified in several large outbreaks in the county, noting that the fact is a red flag showing COVID virus continued to mutate and adapt so that we cannot let down our guard. Chiu, who noted LR contributed to an increasing proportion of COVID cases, was also quoted as saying that the variant affected the spike protein of COVID virus, so theres a chance the currentlydeveloped vaccines would be less effective against it. The vaccines being administered in the United States currently were designed to give people immunity by inhibiting the viruss spike protein. An article published on Cell.com in September by a group of Chinese and Canadian researchers said LR has decreased sensitivity to neutralizing mAbs monoclonal antibodies, which are used in the currentlyapproved vaccines to inhibit connections between the spike proteins of the virus and infected cells. The data so far is very preliminary but it basically does raise the concern that there may be some impact on the vaccine, said Chiu. I think thats the most uncomfortable saying  certainly much more work needs to be done in the laboratory. As of Monday, California has ,, confirmed cases of COVID, resulting in , deaths. The number of COVIDrelated deaths increased by . percent or  cases in the past  hours.