Virus slowly reveals its deadly path
2021-01-19 10:38
A load of Sinovacs coronavirus disease COVID vaccine is unloaded from a Brazilian Air Force airplane after the regulator Anvisa approved its emergency use, at Brasilia Air Base in Brasilia, Brazil, Jan , . PhotoAgencies    Evidence placing COVID in Europe, Brazil and US in late  fuels research A report from Brazil last week pointed to the spread of the coronavirus in that country as early as December . For many researchers, the revelation is another piece of the jigsaw puzzle that they are trying to put together on COVID when it was flying under the radar around the world. The presence of antibodies specific for SARSCoVthe virus that caused a pandemic that has killed more than  million people worldwidewas found in serum samples dating to the last month of , the health department in the southeast Brazilian state of Espirito Santo reported last Tuesday. Studies in Europe had earlier reported on what appeared to be evidence pointing to the spread of the virus in the subsequently hardhit region in late . And in the United States, there are suspicions the virus was circulating there as early as November . In Espirito Santo, the antibodies to SARSCoV were detected in  people. Sixteen of the samples suggested the presence of the virus in the state before Brazil announced the first confirmed case on Feb ,. One of the cases was collected on Dec , . The health department said that , serum samples had been collected between December  and June  from patients suspected of infection with dengue and chikungunyaboth mosquitoborn diseases. Espirito Santos health department said it takes about  days for a patient to reach detectable levels of SARSCoV antibodies after an infection, so the infections could have occurred between late November and early December . The Brazilian health ministry has instructed the state to conduct indepth epidemiological investigations for further confirmation. The findings in Brazil are the latest among studies worldwide that have added to growing evidence that COVID silently circulated outside China earlier than previously thought. Researchers from the University of Milan have recently found that a woman in the northern Italian city was infected with COVID in November , according to media reports. Through two different techniques on skin tissue, the researchers identified in a biopsy of a yearold woman the presence of RNA gene sequences of SARSCoV dating back to November , according to Italian regional daily newspaper LUnione Sarda. There are, in this pandemic, cases in which the only sign of COVID infection is that of a skin pathology, said Raffaele Gianotti, who coordinated the research. I wondered if we could find evidence of SARSCoV in the skin of patients with only skin diseases before the officially recognized epidemic phase began, said Gianotti, adding we found the fingerprints of COVID in the skin tissue. Based on global data, this is the oldest evidence of the presence of the SARSCoV virus in a human being, said the report. In late April , Michael Melham, the mayor of Belleville in the US state of New Jersey, said that he had tested positive for COVID antibodies and believed he had contracted the virus in November . In France, scientists found a man was infected with COVID in December , roughly a month before the first cases were officially recorded in Europe. Citing a doctor at Avicenne and JeanVerdier hospitals near Paris, the BBC reported in May  that the patient must have been infected between  and  December in , as coronavirus symptoms take between five and  days to appear. Waste water samples In Spain, researchers at the University of Barcelona detected the presence of the virus genome in waste water samples collected on March ,, the university said in a statement in June last year. On Nov  last year, a study by the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, or CDC, found that COVID was likely in the United States as early as midDecember . According to the study published online in the journal Clinical Infectious Diseases, CDC researchers tested blood samples from , routine blood donations collected by the American Red Cross from Dec , to Jan , , for antibodies specific to the novel coronavirus. COVID infections may have been present in the US in December , about a month earlier than the countrys first official case on Jan ,, the CDC scientists wrote. These findings are yet another illustration of how complicated it is to solve the scientific puzzle of virus source tracing. Regarding these studies, the World Health Organization said it will take every detection in France, in Spain, in Italy very seriously, and we will examine each and every one of them. We will not stop from knowing the truth on the origin of the virus, but based on science, without politicizing it or trying to create tension in the process, WHO DirectorGeneral Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said in late November last year. Xinhua