Vaccine rollout likened to race against death
2021-01-19 09:36
A general view from inside the crypt of Blackburn Cathedral, as ten further mass vaccination centres opened in England with more than a million overs invited to receive their COVID vaccine, Blackburn, Britain on Jan , . PhotoAgencies    Hospitals, medical workers are under extreme pressure, warns NHS chief Britains vaccine deployment minister, Nadhim Zahawi, says the country faces a race against death to ensure those most at risk receive the COVID vaccine. Initially, people aged  and older and medical personnel were the priority for being given their first dose by the National Health Service, which is known as the NHS, but in areas where most of these groups have already received the first shot, the priority list will now include those aged  and older and the clinically extremely vulnerable, such as cancer patients. Speaking on Times Radio, Zahawi said the second dose of vaccines are absolutely going to go ahead and that people who had already received their first dose will have to have that second dose within that week period ... That is absolutely going to happen. This comes  hours after Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab had said the government could not guarantee everyone would receive their second dose within the week target time. The pair do, however, seem to be more in agreement about when the current lockdown restrictions might possibly start being relaxed. The situation will be reviewed in midFebruary and Raab has said restrictions could start to change in early spring, but on a gradual basis, rather than with a big bang.Zahawi has also suggested that, should the vaccine program work as envisaged, relaxation might begin in early March. There will be a point at which we can begin to gradually lift the nonpharmaceutical interventions, he said, explaining that if the target for highpriority vaccinations was met, and allowing time for the vaccines to take effect, youre talking about the first, second week of March. From Monday, vaccination invitations will be sent to more than . million more vulnerable people, as an additional  mass vaccination sites nationwide come into operation. Prime Minister Boris Johnson said the vaccination program was being delivered at a rate of  jabs a minute, and the importance of the program has been underlined by stark comments from NHS Chief Executive Simon Stevens. The facts are very clear and Im not going to sugarcoat them. Hospitals are under extreme pressure and staff are under extreme pressure, he told the BBC, saying the second wave of infections had put the NHS under greater strain than any other event in its year history. Since Christmas Day, weve seen another , increase in the inpatients in hospitals across England. Thats the equivalent of filling  hospitals full of coronavirus patients and, staggeringly, every  seconds across England another patient is being admitted to hospital with coronavirus, he said. Its sort of become glib to talk about this as the worst pandemic in a century but that is clearly correct. Meanwhile, supermarkets face a crackdown on the enforcement of social distancing rules, and a possible oneadult rule for shopping visits, amid fears people may be disregarding advice and using them as an excuse for a family outing, causing overcrowding. Gary McFarlane, a director of the professional association representing environmental health officers, told the Daily Telegraph There is evidence to suggest that family units are making trips to the supermarket which is not really in the spirit of the regulations. There is nothing to say you cant do itbut is it wise? The answer is clearly no. A representative of the Local Government Association said local authorities had been doing their bit to make sure rules were observed, and it was hoped that supermarkets might now take the initiative. Supermarkets have been highlighted as areas of concern as one of the few types of business still able to be open, said the spokesperson. Some supermarkets have started to enforce their rules more effectively through the use of security guidance, and, hopefully, more will follow suit to help reduce transmission risk in these highfootfall areas. Councils will continue to work with local partners, including the police, to ensure they keep people safe and take action, if necessary and appropriate, against any breaches to help reduce infection rates. A study by mathematicians at Cardiff University has calculated that the movement of university students returning home around Christmas could have resulted in as many as . new infections. Variables used in the calculation included virus prevalence, household occupancy and the likelihood of secondary transmission. With the potential movement of over  million UK students for the Christmas vacation, even a modest one percent infection level meaning  in , students are infected, perhaps many of them without symptoms at the time of travel would equate to , new secondary household cases across the country, said study leader Paul Harper.