Iran buys . mln COVID vaccines from COVAX Lebanon signs deal to buy  mln Pfizer vaccines
2021-01-18 09:41
Women walk at a bazaar in Tehran amid the coronavirus disease COVID outbreak, Dec , . PhotoAgencies    CAIRO  Iran said on Sunday that it has purchased . million doses of COVID vaccines from COVAX Meanwhile, Lebanon signed a deal with Pfizer and BioNTech to buy over  million doses of COVID vaccines. Alireza Raisi, the spokesman for the Iranian National Headquarters for Combating the Coronavirus, said that we have paid  million US dollars to buy . million doses of the COVAX vaccine for . million people. The vaccines from the COVAX, which is coled by Gavi, the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations and the World Health Organization, are expected to arrive in two months, Raisi said. Irans total number of COVID cases climbed by , to ,,, while its death toll from the deadly pandemic rose by  to ,, said Sima Sadat Lari, the spokeswoman for Iranian Ministry of Health and Medical Education. A total of ,, people in Iran have recovered from the disease, while , remained in intensive care units, she said. In Lebanon, the office of Caretaker Health Minister Hamad Hassan announced on Sunday that the minister has signed the final contract with Pfizer and BioNTech to secure the purchase of over  million vaccines which are expected to arrive gradually starting in February. Lebanon registered on Sunday , new COVID infections, bringing its total number of cases to ,, the Lebanese Health Ministry reported. The the coronavirus death toll in Lebanon increased by  to ,. Turkey, the hardesthit country in the Middle East, reported , new COVID cases and  more deaths from the infectious virus, bringing its tally of infections to ,, and its death toll to ,. The total recoveries from the disease in Turkey surged by , to ,,. The Iraqi Ministry of Health reported  new COVID cases, bringing the total nationwide infections to ,. It also confirmed nine more deaths, taking its death toll to ,, while its total recoveries soared by , to ,. Iraqi Minister of Health Hassan alTamimi told the official Iraqi News Agency INA that the pandemic is under control in Iraq as the recovery rate has reached  percent and the death rate is kept at about  percent. He denied the media reports about the discovery of a new coronavirus strain in Iraq. Israels Ministry of Health reported , new COVID cases on Sunday, bringing the total number of cases in the country to ,. The death toll from COVID in Israel reached , with  new fatalities, while the total recoveries surged by , to ,. The active cases in Israel rose to a record high of ,. The ministry also reported that the number of people vaccinated against the COVID in Israel has reached . million. Moroccos COVID tally rose to , on Sunday as  new cases were registered during the past  hours. The Moroccan Ministry of Health said that the coronavirus death toll in the kingdom rose by  to ,, while the tally of recoveries increased to , after  new ones were added. Saudi Arabia reported  new COVID cases and five more deaths, raising its tally of infections to , and its death toll to ,. The total recoveries from the virus in the kingdom increased by  to ,. Jordans total COVID cases surged to , with the addition of  new infections, while its death toll rose by eight to ,. The total recoveries in the kingdom increased by , to ,. In the United Arab Emirates UAE, the total COVID cases climbed by , to ,, while its death toll soared to  with five more fatalities. The total recoveries in the UAE increased by , to ,. Kuwait reported  new COVID cases, raising the tally of infections to ,, while the death toll remained at . The Kuwaiti Health Ministry also announced the recovery of  more patients, taking the total recoveries to ,. Egypt reported  new cases and  more deaths on Saturday night, raising its tally of infections to , and its death toll to ,. The total recoveries in Egypt rose by  to ,. Palestine announced  new COVID cases on Sunday, the th consecutive day when the daily count is below ,, taking its tally of infections to ,. The coronavirus death toll in the Palestinian territories climbed by  to ,, while the tally of recoveries increased by  to ,, the Palestinian Health Ministry said. The Qatari health ministry announced  new COVID infections, raising the total number of confirmed cases in the Gulf state to ,. Qatars overall recoveries rose by  to ,, while its total COVID fatalities remained unchanged at  for the th consecutive day. Oman will shut down its land borders for one week starting Monday to curb the spread of the coronavirus, under a decision made by the Gulf states coronavirus emergency committee. Omans total infections hit , on Sunday, after  new cases were recorded. Its death toll rose by three to ,, while its total recoveries surged by  to ,. Libya reported , new COVID cases and  more fatalities, pushing its total caseload to ,, and its death toll to ,. The total recoveries in Libya increased to , with the addition of , new ones.