US COVID vaccine rollout data in longterm facilities raises public concern
2021-01-18 09:20
People wait in line to receive the COVID vaccine at a mass vaccination site in a parking lot for Disneyland Resort on Jan ,  in Anaheim, California. PhotoAgencies    WASHINGTON  About a month after COVID vaccine rollout began in the United States, it is still impossible for the public and the media to track the rollout of vaccines in nursing homes, assisted living facilities, and other longtermcare facilities LTCF in most states, said a latest report of The COVID Tracking Project. In most states, the details of vaccine rollouts across the countrys LTCF remain closely guarded, according to the report. The vaccine rollout in the United States has drawn great public attention since it started on Dec  last year. Health experts and officials have blamed states for slow vaccine rollout. The country planned to inject  million Americans by the end of . However, only about . million total doses have been administered as of Jan , according to the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention CDC. In the meantime, the lack of vaccine distribution data in LTCF raises public concern. For the last month, the public has had minimal visibility into the roll out of COVID vaccines to longtermcare facilities, said The COVID Tracking Project in the report. Last week, South Carolina published the names of nursing homes and other LTCF where residents and staff have been vaccinated. States and the CDC should follow suit, said the report. This is the first facilitylevel vaccination data weve seen from a US state, and its a crucial step in transparency around vaccine distribution to these most vulnerable populations, said the report. US LTCF population has been hit hard by the virus since the beginning of the pandemic. According to the tracking project, less than  percent of US residents live in LTCF, but deaths among LTCF staff and residents make up at least  percent of the nations total COVID deaths. As of Jan , more than , COVID deaths were reported among LTCF residents and staff, according to the tracking project. In early December, the CDC recommended a phased distribution list for early COVID vaccines, with healthcare personnel and LTCF residents in Phase a of the vaccination program, and then Phase b which includes those aged  years and older and frontline essential workers. Phase c includes persons aged  to  years and aged  to  with highrisk medical conditions, and essential workers not recommended for vaccination in Phase b. The United States started to administer the first doses of COVID vaccines to LTCF population on Dec .