Wang China stands behind ASEAN
2021-01-16 08:43
State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi. PhotoXinhua    China resolutely supports the centrality of the member Association of Southeast Asian Nations in regional cooperation, and it called on countries to stay vigilant against any attempt to diminish the groups central role in the region, said State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi. Wang made the remark during an official visit to Brunei that ended on Friday. Brunei holds the rotating chairmanship of ASEAN this year. Upgrading collaboration between China and ASEAN and preserving stability in the South China Sea have been high on the agenda during Wangs visit. In Thursday talks with senior Brunei officials, Wang said both China and Brunei should uphold the central role of ASEAN in regional cooperation and maintain an open and inclusive regional architecture. Both sides should guide all parties to stay focused on development and on East Asia, and to extend the good momentum of East Asian cooperation, he added. Support should be given to anything that is conducive to maintaining the centrality of ASEAN, and parties should remain vigilant against any attempt to undermine the central role of ASEAN, Wang said. The Brunei side said the country, as the current ASEAN chair, is ready to prioritize cooperation with China, bring ASEANChina relations to a new level and further advance free trade in the region. This year marks the th anniversary of the establishment of dialogue partnership ties between China and ASEAN. In a separate meeting with Lim Jock Hoi, secretarygeneral of ASEAN, in Bandar Seri Begawan on Thursday, Wang said ASEANs relationship with China is the most dynamic and fruitful of its ties with various dialogue partners, and has become an important pillar of regional peace, stability, development and prosperity. Wang called on taking this opportunity to hold a series of commemorative activities and build a closer ChinaASEAN community with a shared future. China is willing to improve public health cooperation with ASEAN and carry out vaccine cooperation with more ASEAN countries, he said. Also, China is willing to join hands with ASEAN to jointly promote sustainable development and strengthen cooperation in areas including digital economy and peopletopeople exchanges, Wang added. Lim said he appreciated China for its strong support for ASEAN in the fight against the COVID pandemic. ASEAN is committed to maintaining a free, open and rulesbased free trade system, and supports member countries to carry out indepth cooperation with China to speed up regional economic recovery, Lim added.