US may OK mixandmatch vaccine boosters
2021-10-20 10:22
Johnson  Johnsons coronavirus disease COVID vaccines are seen at Northwell Healths South Shore University Hospital in Bay Shore, New York, March , . PhotoAgencies    The US Food and Drug Administration FDA this week may approve giving people COVID vaccine booster shots that are different from their first doses, according to numerous media reports. The FDA is planning to make the announcement Wednesday as part of its authorization of boosters for the Moderna and Johnson  Johnson vaccines, according to The New York Times. People familiar with the agencys plans say it wont recommend one vaccine over another, and it may say that it is best to use the same vaccine as a booster, according to the Times. But vaccine providers can decide to offer different brands at their discretion, the Times said. The decision would meet requests of state health officials who have been seeking to increase the flexibility in giving the vaccines. An advisory committee of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention CDC will discuss the booster issue on Thursday, and the agency will then issue its own recommendations. By this weekend, tens of millions of Americans could be eligible for additional injections. Last week, a panel of experts advising the FDA recommended booster shots of the JJ vaccine, a day after voting in favor of the Moderna booster. The same committee received the results of a mixandmatch study that showed recipients of the JJ vaccine would receive enhanced protection from a second dose of the Moderna or Pfizer vaccine, which relies on a different technology. The FDA last month authorized booster shots of the PfizerBioNTech vaccine for at least six months after the second dose. According to an analysis published by the CDC on Tuesday, the PfizerBioNTech vaccine, the only one approved in the US for those  and under, was  percent effective at keeping people age  to  out of the hospital. This evaluation demonstrated that two doses of PfizerBioNTech vaccine are highly effective at preventing COVID hospitalization among persons aged  years, the agencys scientists wrote. The agency studied  young people who were hospitalized at  pediatric hospitals across  states from June through September. While roughly  percent of them had at least one underlying condition that increased their potential for severe symptoms, researchers found that  percent of those who ended up in the hospital werent vaccinated. Washington State football coach Nick Rolovich was dismissed Monday after he declined to get vaccinated against COVID despite a statewide mandate issued in August by Democratic Governor Jay Inslee. Nick is not eligible to be employed at Washington State University, through noncompliance, Athletic Director Pat Chun said Monday night. The university also fired four assistant coaches for not complying with the mandate. Rolovich was the states highestpaid employee at . million per year, The Washington Post reported. He hadnt obtained approval for an exemption by Mondays state deadline. Rolovich had requested a religious exemption to comply with the mandate and didnt elaborate on his religious reasons for not being vaccinated, USA Today reported. The Seattle Times reported that after Saturday nights  victory over Stanford, Rolovich said I dont think this is in my hands. Ive been settled for a long time on it.  If thats not what Chun wants, then I guess Ive got to move on. But I like being here, I like being the coach here. I love these kids.