S. Korea continues to face economic uncertainty over COVID govt report
2021-01-15 15:19
An employee puts a meal on an artificial intelligence serving robot during a demonstration at a restaurant in Seoul, South Korea, September , . PhotoAgencies    SEOUL  South Korea continued to face economic uncertainty over the COVID resurgence here, a government report said Friday. The Ministry of Economy and Finance said in its monthly economic assessment report, called Green Book, that the economy was recently faced with a continued uncertainty from the weakened domestic demand and employment, caused by the COVID resurgence and the tightened socialdistancing rules. The ministry noted that expectations also spread for recovery amid the vaccination campaigns and policy measures to boost economy in major economies despite the continued COVID spread and shutdowns in major countries. The South Korean government decided to maintain its fivetier socialdistancing scheme at the secondhighest level for six weeks through Jan.  to contain the virus spread. In the latest tally, the country reported  more cases of COVID for the past  hours, raising the total number of infections to ,. The daily caseload stayed below  for five straight days, but it hovered above  since Nov. . Under the tightened quarantine measures, highrisk facilities were forced to stop business, while restaurants, coffee shops and cafes were allowed to open with restrictions. Revenue by department stores tumbled . percent in December from a year earlier, after skidding . percent in November. Sale by discount outlets added . percent in December after declining . percent in the prior month. The sale of passenger cars reduced . percent in December after growing . percent in the previous month. Online shopping jumped . percent in December from a year ago as people refrained from outside activity, such as offline shopping, amid the fear of the virus infection. The number of those employed dropped , in December from a year earlier. The employment rate for those aged  slipped . percentage points to . percent last month. Export advanced . percent in December on a yearly basis thanks to strong demand for tech products.