Russia poised for mass vaccinations
2021-01-15 10:58
Russias President Vladimir Putin attends a meeting with government members via a video conference call at the NovoOgaryovo state residence outside Moscow, Russia, January , . PhotoAgencies    Russian President Vladimir Putin ordered the mass vaccination of all Russians against coronavirus from Monday amid reports of a slowerthanexpected initial vaccine rollout. We need to move from largescale to mass vaccination, Putin said at a cabinet meeting on Wednesday, the Kommersant business daily said, calling Russias domestically developed Sputnik V vaccine the best in the world. Putin said he learned from Prime Minister Mikhail Mishustin last week that Russia has exceeded its coronavirus vaccine production volumes, allowing health officials to ramp up vaccinations. He said that the relevant infrastructure should be prepared for the mass inoculations. The Russian vaccine does not require any extreme or unusual transportation conditions like temperature of minus  C or minus  C. It works in a much simpler way, Putin said. He also ordered a probe into how the Russian coronavirus vaccine will work in a situation where there are many strains. Putin pointed out that some countries were experiencing an upsurge in infection rates for no apparent reasons either due to new strains or failure to observe the required discipline during the holidays. Weve got to know this. I know that we have these strains and our specialists, our scientists are working on this. We are to have a clear idea of how the vaccine works, Putin said. Russia began the largescale rollout of its domestically produced Sputnik V vaccine on Dec , with the initial list of eligible recipients expanded from medics and teachers to other professionals over the weeks. Authorities said over a million Russians have so far been inoculated with the original twodose version of Sputnik V, named after the Sovietera satellite that triggered the space race in a nod to the projects geopolitical importance for Moscow. Kirill Dmitriev, the head of the Russian Direct Investment Fund responsible for marketing Sputnik V abroad, said Russia will conduct a clinical trial of a onedose SputnikLight version of its coronavirus vaccine. The proposal was supported by Putin, who said the single dose will provide less protection than the two doses but will still reach  percent. Russia reported on Thursday , new cases, bringing the total number to more than . million. The Russian capital has decided to extend until Jan  coronavirus restrictions, including selfisolation for those  and older and remote work for  percent of employees, Moscow Mayor Sergei Sobyanin announced in his blog on Thursday. Sobyanin said the citys colleges, sports schools, and supplementary educational facilities will remain on remote learning or on holiday breaks. Russia could approve nonRussian vaccines against COVID, including the shot developed by Pfizer and BioNTech, Tass cited the head of state healthcare regulator Roszdravnadzor as saying on Thursday. Agencies contributed to this story.