US weekly jobless claims soar to nearly  million amid COVID spikes
2021-01-15 10:27
FILE PHOTO People line up outside a Kentucky Career Center hoping to find assistance with their unemployment claim in Frankfort, Kentucky, US June , .PhotoAgencies    WASHINGTON  Initial jobless claims in the United States soared to , last week, indicating severe disruption to the labor market recovery by COVID spikes, the Labor Department reported Thursday. In the week ending Jan. , the number of Americans filing for unemployment benefits jumped by , from the previous weeks downwardly revised level of ,, according to a report released by the departments Bureau of Labor Statistics BLS. The start of the year usually sees a surge in filings unadjusted claims reached . million and the timing of holidays makes seasonal adjustment particularly hard this time of year, but that cannot fully explain away the rise, Sarah House, senior economist at Wells Fargo Securities, wrote in an analysis. The worsening state of the pandemic is bearing down on the labor market, House said. The latest BLS report also showed that the number of people continuing to collect regular state unemployment benefits in the week ending Jan.  increased by , to . million. Meanwhile, the total number of people claiming benefits in all programs  state and federal combined  for the week ending Dec.  decreased by ,, but remained elevated at . million, as the country struggles to grapple with the fallout of the surging COVID infections. Ten months into the pandemic, job instability remains tremendous, House said. New filings relative to the number of jobs in the economy remains higher than at the peak of the Great Recession. With the jobs recovery stalling, the extra  dollars in weekly benefits provided by the recently approved billiondollar COVID relief bill could not come soon enough for many families, she noted. As COVID shutdowns rippled through the workforce last spring, initial jobless claims spiked by  million to reach a record . million in the week ending March , , and then doubled to reach a record . million in the week ending March . After that, the figures have been largely declining  though still at historically high levels  but the trend was reversed several times amid a resurgence in COVID cases, signaling a stalled recovery in the labor market. In the week ending Aug. , the number of Americans filing for unemployment benefits dropped by , to ,, the first time it has dipped below  million since midMarch. Yet just in the following week, the figure rose back above the  million mark to reach .. million. In the week ending Oct. , the figure fell below , for the first time since late March, and has been largely declining in following weeks, but the trend was reversed in the weeks ending Nov.  and Nov. , and then in the weeks ending Dec.  and Dec.  amid recent COVID spikes. According to the monthly employment report released by the Labor Department last week, U.S. employers slashed , jobs in December, marking the first monthly decline in employment since April . The unemployment rate, which has been trending down over the past seven months, remained unchanged at . percent in December, the report showed. If we adjust the . percent headline unemployment rate for the decline in labor participation since February and the Bureau of Labor Statistics estimate of misclassification, the unemployment rate would be  percent, similar to the peak following the Global Financial Crisis, Federal Reserve board governor Lael Brainard said at a virtual event Wednesday. Amid widespread COVID shutdowns in March and April last year,  million Americans lost their jobs. The latest employment report showed that the number of unemployed in December remained unchanged at . million. Brainard noted that the damage from COVID is concentrated among already challenged groups. For example, Federal Reserve staff analysis indicates that unemployment is likely above  percent for workers in the bottom wage quartile, while it has fallen below  percent for the top wage quartile. Labor force participation for primeage workers has declined, particularly for parents of schoolaged children, where the declines have been greater for women than for men, and greater for Black and Hispanic mothers than for White mothers, said the Fed official. According to the Feds latest Beige Book, a majority of Federal Reserve districts reported that employment rose, although the pace was slow, and the recovery remained incomplete. A growing number of districts reported a drop in employment levels relative to the previous reporting period, according to the report, which contains economic reports from  Federal Reserve districts, each monitored by a regional Federal Reserve Bank. Although the prospect of COVID vaccines has bolstered business optimism for  growth, this has been tempered by concern over the recent virus resurgence and the implications for nearterm business conditions, the report said.