Jab saga injects NBA battle with intrigue
2021-10-20 09:20
The Milwaukee Bucks celebrate with the championship trophy after defeating the Phoenix Suns in last seasons NBA Finals on July . The Bucks tip off their title defense against the Brooklyn Nets, who will be without the unvaccinated Kyrie Irving. AP    Giannis Antetokounmpo chases another title, the Brooklyn Nets move on without Kyrie Irving and LeBron James unveils his new supporting cast when the  NBA season begins on Tuesday. The NBAs th anniversary campaign tips off with the Brooklyn Nets at Milwaukee as NBA Finals Most Valuable Player Antetokounmpo and the rest of the Bucks raise the clubs first championship banner since . The Greek superstar, a twotime NBA MVP, averaged . points, . rebounds, . assists, . blocked shots and . steals a game last year in the playoffs as the Bucks ended a halfcentury title drought. Milwaukee will try to become the first NBA champion from the Eastern Conference to repeat since James led Miami to titles in  and  as the league aims for its first full game campaign since  after consecutive seasons shortened due to COVID. The Nets have been part of the NBA offseasons biggest drama with the loss of Irving for refusing to have a COVID vaccination. City regulations in New York, Los Angeles and San Francisco forbid attending large indoor public gatherings without being vaccinated, meaning Irving could not play in Nets home games and would miss most of Brooklyns regularseason contests. I chose to be unvaccinated and that was my choice and I ask yall just to respect that choice, Irving said. Im going to stay in shape, be ready to play, be ready to rock out with my teammates and just be part of this whole thing. As a result, the Nets decided the star guard will not be part of the team at all rather than be available on a parttime basis. Brooklyn still offers formidable talent with twotime NBA champion and  NBA MVP Kevin Durant up front and  MVP and threetime scoring champion James Harden in the Nets backcourt. Patty Mills, an NBA champion with San Antonio in , signed with the Nets in August after sparking the Australia Boomers to a bronze medal at the Tokyo Olympics. The yearold guard from Canberra could see more minutes with Irving absent. When you lose a talent as great as Kyrie, we have to be tighter, we have to be more connected, we have to have guys play bigger roles and be more responsible with the details, Nets coach Steve Nash said. No one is going to come in and imitate Kyrie. So how can we make up for his loss as best as possible? Through all the collective work we do... coming together and really building a team. James urges patience The NBA seasons opening night also features James and the revamped Los Angeles Lakers playing host to the Golden State Warriors. Stephen Curry, Draymond Green, Andrew Wiggins and the rest of the Warriors hope to welcome back guard Klay Thompson from an Achilles tendon injury in December or January. The Lakers have surrounded James and Anthony Davis with a new collection of talent, including Russell Westbrook, Dwight Howard, Rajon Rondo, Trevor Ariza, Malik Monk, Kendrick Nunn and Carmelo Anthony. The hope is to try and recapture the magic that produced a championship in the COVID bubble last year. The Lakers lost to Phoenix in the first round of last seasons playoffs. Its going to take a minute for us to become the team we know were capable of being, James said. Its all about being patient with the process, understanding that were going to have frustrating moments. Nothing is worth having if its not worth working for. James, a fourtime NBA MVP, is chasing his fifth NBA crown. He will turn  in December but remains a skilled scorer and passing threat. Nothing he does surprises me, Lakers coach Frank Vogel said. Simmons uncertainty The Philadelphia ers, last seasons Eastern Conference top seeds, lost to Atlanta in the second round of the playoffs and have had to contend with Australian guard Ben Simmons sitting out preseason workouts until Sunday. The next step is getting him integrated with the team, said ers coach Doc Rivers, who declared Simmons is in decent shape but not game shape. With Simmons back in the fold alongside star big man Joel Embiid, Philadelphia again figures to be a team to beat in the East. The ers open Wednesday at New Orleans with the host Pelicans troubled by their own missing star in Zion Williamson, out with a broken right foot suffered in the offseason. Williamson averaged . points, . rebounds and . assists a game last season for the Pelicans, who plan to give the big man more tests in two weeks to determine his status. Utah and Phoenix, the only teams to win  games last season, improved in the offseason. The Jazz added swingman Rudy Gay and center Hassan Whiteside while the Suns, who lost to Milwaukee in the NBA Finals, kept star guard Chris Paul and added forward JaVale McGee to go alongside Bahamas big man Deandre Ayton. The NBA Finals are set to return to their typical June slot. AFP