Powells death of COVID complications triggers vaccine effectiveness debate in US
2021-10-20 09:15
Former US Secretary of State Colin Powell attends the Russia Forum  in Moscow, Russia, April , . PhotoXinhua    WASHINGTON  Former US Secretary of State Colin Powell died at  of COVID complications on Monday, triggering heated debate over the effectiveness of vaccines in the United States. General Colin L. Powell, former US Secretary of State and Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, passed away this morning due to complications from COVID, the Powell family wrote in a Facebook post on Monday, noting Powell had been fully vaccinated. He was suffering from serious underlying conditions. Powells passing added fuel to those who oppose vaccines in the country, but health experts stressed Powells death was an exception to the vaccines protection, not proof they do not work. While Powell was fully vaccinated, he also had multiple myeloma, a cancer that suppresses the bodys immune response, said Gwen Nichols, chief medical officer at the US Leukemia  Lymphoma Society. Multiple myeloma is not curable, so while he may or may not have been on active treatment, his disease, and his age, made him more vulnerable to breakthrough infection, complications and death, she explained. Powell battled other heightened risks of severe COVID. Besides multiple myeloma, Powell reportedly had surgery for prostate cancer when he was US secretary of state and, more recently, Parkinsons disease. Neurologic conditions are among those cited by the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention CDC as potentially increasing the risk of severe COVID in patients. Im afraid people will say the vaccine didnt help him, said Robert Murphy, executive director of the Institute for Global Health at Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine. But the mortality rate for vaccinated people is  times less than unvaccinated. People still die from the disease, especially if you are  and have underlying health risks. He is one of the unfortunate ones, but he was very high risk, Murphy was quoted by USA Today as saying. Experts stressed that Powells passing does not demonstrate the futility of vaccines, but instead underscores the importance of everyone getting vaccinated to protect societys most vulnerable. A new CDC study published on Tuesday shows that among hospitalized US patients aged  to  years, vaccine effectiveness of two doses of PfizerBioNTech vaccine against COVID hospitalization during June to September was  percent. Unvaccinated people have an  times higher risk of dying from COVID than fully vaccinated people, according to another CDC study published recently. In addition, the study shows that unvaccinated people have a six times higher chance of testing positive for COVID than fully vaccinated people do. Former Secretary of State Colin Powells death from COVID complications signifies the latest wakeup call in the United Statess extended battle against the virus, demonstrating the continued risk the pandemic poses to American lives, said a report of The Hill.