CE Free vaccination wont be mandatory in Hong Kong
2021-01-13 18:31
Chief Executive of Hong Kong Carrie Lam Cheng Yuestngor meets the press ahead of an Executive Council meeting at Central Government Offices on Jan , . Photo by PARKER ZHENGCHINA DAILY    HONG KONG  Hong Kongs Chief Executive Carrie Lam Cheng Yuetngor stressed that the citys planned free coronavirus vaccination program would not be mandatory, and that cash incentives would not be provided for people who get inoculated. Speaking to reporters before a meeting of the Executive Council on Tuesday, Lam said the fourth wave of COVID infections in the city remained worrying, because clusters kept cropping up at hospitals, care homes and construction sites, and involved first aiders, ferry sailors and bus drivers. Over the past week, the local outbreak declined very slowly, and there were resurgences in the number of new cases, Lam said, adding that people should not have gatherings involving nonfamily members. Speaking on a radio program on Tuesday, Joseph Tsang Kayyan, a local specialist in infectious diseases, said the recent fluctuations in daily caseloads represented transmissions that had occured during the late December holidays. He expected the number of local cases to stay in the double digits in January. Although he believes virus curbs have been elevated to the toughest level, Tsang appealed to residents to be more careful when celebrating the Lunar New Year next month. Hong Kong recorded , , , , ,  and  daily COVID cases, respectively, in the past seven days. Lam also made it clear that a rollout of the vaccination program may not directly lead to a relaxation of social distancing rules. During the previous two waves, the government only started easing those measures when daily local cases could be counted in a single digit, Lam said. Meanwhile, government advisers said Hong Kong is in no hurry to roll out COVID vaccinations, preferring instead to see what happens in other, harderhit places. We have the luxury of a bit of time to observe how the program is being rolled out elsewhere, especially on the safety side, Lam Chingchoi, a medical doctor and member of the Chief Executives advisory Executive Council, said in an interview on Monday. Our experts are not in a hurry to be the first to be doing a vaccination program. Were finding a balance between not having the vaccine late, and having adequate supplies, and we have the luxury to know that the vaccine weve purchased is safe. Unlike the US and the UK, which have administered millions of vaccinations since December, the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region has yet to authorize a vaccine and doesnt plan to begin inoculations until February. Officials already declined to receive a January shipment of Sinovac vaccines because regulatory approval was pending, according to Lam. The city has purchased enough doses  a mix of the Pfizer Inc.BioNTech SE, Sinovac Biotech Ltd and AstraZeneca Plc vaccines  to cover its . million residents, and plans to offer people a choice of which vaccine theyll take. The HKSAR has reported just , coronavirus cases since the pandemic began, making it one of the most COVIDresilient places in the world. But the city is now struggling to contain a fourth wave that has resurrected tight social distancing requirements and frustrated local businesses  especially restaurants  and parents of schoolage children. Authorities have reported between  and  daily cases over the last week. The city has also seen  deaths from COVID  still roughly half of the total death toll inflicted on Hong Kong from severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS, which killed nearly  people in the early s. The HKSAR government didnt immediately respond Tuesday to further inquiries about the vaccination program. The cautious approach could result in wider public acceptance of the vaccines once they become available, according to David Hui, a professor of respiratory medicine at the Chinese University of Hong Kong and a member of the governments COVID advisory panel. Its good that we have data from North America and also the UK  which have already commenced the vaccination program  to show us more information about the unknown side effects, such as severe allergic reaction, so we can have better preparation, Hui said.