Disagreement on Bidens vaccine plan
2021-01-13 11:59
PhotoVCG    The US has failed to meet the federal governments vaccination goal, so Presidentelect Joe Biden says that when he is in office, he will release nearly every available dose of the two vaccines being used. That move is a break with the Trump administrations strategy of holding back half of US vaccine production to ensure second doses are available. Both Pfizer and BioNTech and Moderna vaccines require two doses, administered at specific intervals, and vaccine manufacturing hasnt ramped up as rapidly as many experts had hoped. Some health experts disagree with Bidens plan, including Dr Anthony Fauci, who advises both the Trump administration and the incoming Biden administration on the federal COVID response. I would not be in favor of that, Fauci, head of the National Institutes of Health told CNN on Jan . Were going to keep doing what were doing. The Food and Drug Administration  whose advice Biden has pledged to follow  has also spoken out against changing the dosing schedule, calling such a move premature and not rooted solidly in the available evidence. But other health experts said its the right thing to do because it is imperative to get as many people vaccinated as quickly as possible as long as the second doses arent delayed. The Biden team said it was confident that the supply would be enough, and that Biden would invoke the Defense Production Act if necessary to bolster the supply of second doses. There is no reason that states need to complete, say, vaccinating all healthcare providers before opening up vaccinations to older Americans or other especially vulnerable populations, Alex Azar, the US Health and Human Services secretary told reporters on Jan . It would be much better to move quickly and end up vaccinating some lowerpriority people than to let vaccines sit around while states try to micromanage this process. Faster administration would save lives right now, which means we cannot let the perfect be the enemy of the good, he said. Dr Scott Gottlieb, a former FDA commissioner, said the current vaccination plan isnt working. We need to hit the reset and adopt a new strategy in trying to get that out to patients, he told CBS News on Sunday. Meanwhile, some states arent following the recommendation by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention CDC for rolling out the vaccines. It recommended that healthcare workers and residents of nursing homes and longterm care facilities be in Phase a, the first priority group. They were to be followed by people above age  in Phase b. But Florida, Louisiana, Texas and New York are among states that have decided to broaden vaccination eligibility for older people and certain essential workers, even though many healthcare workers havent yet received a shot. New York is the latest state to do so. On Tuesday, Governor Andrew M. Cuomo announced expanding the eligibility age to  and over. That followed a move on Friday to include  million more people, including those  and older, first responders, teachers and school workers, publicfacing grocery store workers, transit workers and people living and working in homeless shelters. Those expanded vaccinations started on Monday. Biden has vowed to get at least  million COVID vaccine shots into the arms of the American people during his first  days in office. Four weeks after the first American was vaccinated against the coronavirus, as of Monday, . million doses have been given, according to data collected by the CDC. And that number is far short of the federal governments goal of giving at least  million people shots before the end of December. As of Jan , more than . million doses were distributed to states, territories and federal agencies, according to the CDC, but only , people have completed the twodose vaccination regimen. As of Tuesday, the US had more than . million confirmed coronavirus cases and over , COVID deaths, according to the Johns Hopkins University Coronavirus Resource Center. California by far had the most new positive cases, nearly ,. Travelers flying into the United States from international destinations will be required to show proof of a negative coronavirus test before boarding their flights the CDC announced Tuesday. The agency said it hopes the new policy, which will go into effect Jan , will help slow the spread of the virus.