Arizona becomes US hot spot for COVID
2021-01-13 11:57
Arizona has become Americas newest hot spot for weekly coronavirus cases with nearly  deaths and , new infections on Tuesday alone.The states sevenday average for cases was the highest in the nation Sunday, according to data from the COVID tracker at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention CDC.Over the past seven days, the rate of new positive coronavirus cases was . cases per , people, figures from the CDC showed. In comparison, the US average for new cases was . per ,.Dr Joe Gerald, a researcher at the University of Arizona, warned in a modeling report released on Jan  that things could soon get worst.The virus is mowing through Arizona like a sharpened scythe. ... Barring intervention, daily cases and fatalities will double or perhaps quadruple before the outbreak collapses under the weight of natural, not vaccineinduced immunity later this spring.Since the pandemic began last year, Arizona has had , coronavirus cases and , deaths, according to the states health department.In his  State of the State SOTS address Monday, Governor Doug Ducey ruled out introducing further measures to reduce the virus spread.In many ways, an extremely tough year brought out the best in us, but often our best wasnt enough, he said in a virtual speech from his office.After acknowledging the , lives lost to the pandemic in his state, he defended his measured, steady and responsible approach to tackling COVID, adding, The critics can say what they want, but the path Ive outlined is the right path for Arizona.Ducey then urged schools to get back to inperson learning as soon as possible. We will not be funding empty seats or allowing schools to remain in a perpetual state of closure children still need to learn even in a pandemic, he said.Kathy Hoffman, state superintendent of public instruction for Arizonas education department, criticized Ducey.She said his speech ignored the reality of the worsening spread of COVID and its severe impact on our schools, students and teachers. The harsh reality is that students and teachers cannot safely return to inperson learning while Arizona sits as one of the worst COVID hot spots in the world.Phoenixs Democratic Mayor Kate Gallego has repeatedly said Duceys handling of the pandemic hasnt worked. She also criticized his unwillingness to work with city leaders.Disappointing to hear no new COVID mitigation policies during the governors SOTS, she said on Twitter. The numbers in Arizona speak for themselves. Our current actions are not working, and we are losing too many lives. We need state leadership now.The deluge of coronavirus cases in Arizona has placed a huge strain on hospitals. There were at least , inpatients with COVID in hospitals on Monday. The number of COVID patients in state intensive care unit ICU beds was ,.More than  percent of Arizonas ICU beds and inpatient beds are currently occupied. And at least  percent of all ICU beds are being used for coronavirus patients. Meanwhile,  percent of nonICU beds are being used for coronavirus patients, azcentral.com reported.Arizona began to roll out its vaccination program on Dec . Those in Phase a, first in line to get vaccinated, include residents of longterm care homes first responders and healthcare workers.