Germany may have breached vaccine rules
2021-01-12 09:52
Health professional Tatjana Lang prepares syringes with doses of the PfizerBioNTech COVID vaccine at the Bavarian Red Cross vaccination center, in Pfaffenhofen an der Ilm, Germany January , .PhotoAgencies    Independent deal goes against the mass purchase strategy of the European Union The European Commission has refused to be drawn on reports that Germany may have breached a blocwide vaccine purchasing strategy agreement by separately ordering an extra  million doses of the PfizerBioNTech vaccine in September. The European Union is coordinating the vaccine buying strategy for the blocs  member states, and on Friday it secured an extra  million doses of the PfizerBioNTech vaccine. Germanys share of the EU order amounts to  million doses and so far, . million doses have been delivered, and a further . million are expected to have followed by the end of the month. Following the recent EU approval of the Moderna vaccine, member states expect to start rolling that out too. But according to a report by Politico, Germany would receive  million more doses of the BioNTechPfizer vaccine outside the EUs joint vaccination program. Vaccination against COVID started on Dec  across the EU, and supplies are currently being shipped to all member states at the same time and under the same conditions. But German politicians and media have called the EUs deal a vaccination disaster, claiming it has not secured enough doses, Politico reported. It was German scientists who developed the first effective COVID vaccine. Hanno Kautz, spokesperson for the German health ministry, confirmed that Germany will receive around  million vaccine doses from BioNTech from EU contracts, and  million from bilateral contracts or agreements... in total,  million this year. This is something we have done independently of the EU treaties. This raised the question of whether Germany had violated the EUs vaccination strategy banning countries from conducting parallel negotiations. Commission President Ursula von der Leyen confirmed on Friday that member states had agreed that countries cannot sign separate deals. Von der Leyen has always billed the vaccination strategy as a beacon of EU solidarity. She said Its legally binding. We have all agreed, legally binding, that there will be no parallel negotiations, no parallel contracts  Were all working together. However, earlier last week, a Commission official said that Germanys deal with BioNTechPfizer did not violate the terms of the strategy in spirit as the countrys doses would come after orders from the Commission had been filled. Politico noted that Kautz backed this up on Friday when he said the deal is compatible with the EU agreements. He added No other EU member will receive vaccines from BioNTech, for example, at a later date... just because Germany has a guarantee for additional vaccines. Critics from Germanys scientific community have expressed concern that the nation has put European interests above its own by insisting on a joint EU procurement process, according to BBC News. The BBC report noted that Germanys health minister, Jens Spahn, has blamed the shortage of doses on the inability of the manufacturers of the PfizerBioNTech vaccine to meet global demand. A tougher lockdown came into force across all of Germanys  federal states on Monday. Euronews reported that more than  percent of the beds in the countrys intensive care units are now occupied.