Vaccines free, safe and effective China Daily editorial
2021-01-11 19:55
A medical worker prepares for the COVID vaccination at a temporary vaccination site in Haidian district of Beijing, Jan , . PhotoXinhua    The official announcement over the weekend that COVID vaccines will be provided to the general public free of charge should have come as no surprise, given that the government has vowed repeatedly to make them a public good once they become available. The central leadership views the move as vital for building a strong line of defense against the novel coronavirus, and part of Chinas contribution to the global pandemic fight. Yet due to the lack of publicity, as well as the failure of some local government officials to carry out the policy properly by charging recipients for the vaccines before they were asked to rectify the practice, there has been some confusion among the public about the vaccination program that the government is carrying out. Since vaccines remain the most effective way to protect people from the disease, it is important to make sure that people throughout the country are willing to be inoculated, by ensuring they are well informed of the nocost policy and the fact that the vaccines being provided by the government have proved both safe and effective. China has already administered more than  million COVID vaccine doses, more than  million of them after midDecember, with only two people in a million suffering an adverse reaction. The promise that people wont have to pay a single cent for vaccination against the virus was not an easy one for the country to make, as there are huge costs incurred in every step of the process  from manufacturing and storage to transport and inoculation. Sinopharm, which was the first of the countrys vaccine producers to have a COVID vaccine approved, has reportedly said that its twoshot vaccine costs nearly , yuan . With all the costs to be covered by the medical insurance fund and government budget as part of a wholeofnation fight against the epidemic, the governments freeofcharge vaccine policy not only reflects the governance principle of putting people first but also underscores its determination to keep the virus at bay at all costs. Yet to do that, as well as vaccinate people for free, it is equally consequential that a good inoculation scheme  covering such areas as medical workers training, vaccine recipient screening, adverse reaction monitoring, and emergency treatment  is drafted and put in place so that everyone has confidence in the vaccines and can benefit from the policy. The experience accumulated so far should light the way for the vaccination campaign to speed up across the nation in the coming months.