Xinhua Commentary Responsible China contributes to global development
2021-01-11 10:03
A photo shows a night view of the CBD area in downtown Beijing. ZHOU JINFOR CHINA DAILYBLOOMBERGBLOOMBERG VIA GETTY IMAGES    BEIJING, Jan.  Xinhua  China has seen considerable growth in its economic, technological and composite national strength. The rise of a responsible country like China does not threaten others or pose danger to the world. Instead, it has contributed more to global prosperity and the common wellbeing of humanity. A white paper issued Sunday by Chinas State Council Information Office testifies to that. The mission of Chinas international development cooperation in the new era is to promote a global community of shared future. China has expanded the scale of its international development cooperation. In terms of foreign assistance, it allocated . billion yuan about . billion U.S. dollars in the forms of grants, interestfree loans, and concessional loans from  to . And the cooperation has been carried out in various forms from complete projects to goods and materials, technical cooperation, SouthSouth Cooperation Assistance Fund, medical teams and outbound volunteers. The least developed countries in Asia and Africa are among the major beneficiaries. China has also been helping other developing countries realize the UN  Agenda for Sustainable Development goals, from reducing poverty, enhancing food security, improving health care, to promoting gender equality and ecoenvironmental protection. And it is not just the government. Chinese medical teams and volunteers spread out across the world to help people in need Chinese technicians and agricultural professionals taught their counterparts in developing countries viable new technologies and skills to increase income. Last year, in the face of the ravaging COVID pandemic, China launched the most intensive and largestscale emergency humanitarian assistance mission since  and did all it could to aid and assist more than  countries and international organizations. China has also pledged to make COVID vaccines available as a global public good once they have been developed and applied in the country. The white paper reaffirmed Chinas commitment to doing all we can to support developing countries in the fight against COVID. All these speak volumes about Chinas will and the actions it takes as a responsible country. At present, China has entered a new development phase and is embarking on a journey to fully build itself into a modern socialist country. But it will always consider its own growth in the context of the common development of all humanity. No matter how strong it grows, China will remain a builder of world peace, a contributor to global prosperity and a defender of international order, contributing even more to the common wellbeing of humanity.