In New York, a clash over how vaccines should be distributed
2021-01-08 13:19
PhotoAgencies    New Yorks two famously feuding politicians are in disagreement again  over the distribution of the coronavirus vaccine. On Thursday, New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio demanded that Governor Andrew Cuomo expand the number of people who can be vaccinated for COVID today. The mayor explained why he announced on Wednesday that , NYPD officers and a number of corrections officers would be able to receive vaccines. But shortly after the mayors statements, the governor disagreed. We were ready to go and do a huge vaccination effort at the Department of Correction and the NYPD, but we were told by the state that they would not allow that, de Blasio said Thursday. De Blasio said Albanys criteria include first responders who perform CPR, use basic life support equipment and treat people in shock. What do patrol officers do? Of course, they have to be ready to be able to perform CPR at a moments notice, the mayor said. Of course they have to be able to use lifesaving equipment and deal with any kind of emergency of any type. What is gray here? At the crux of the dispute is that if enough people prioritized to receive the vaccine first decide not to get it, then should it go to the next prioritized group? Phase A, which includes frontline hospital workers and people in nursing homes, is underway. But de Blasio has argued that phase B, which includes people  and older and first responders, should begin now because about  percent of the A category in the city not registered to receive the vaccine. The state has NOT conveyed when or how B will begin. There are not clear guidelines about remaining doses or recipients from A, mayoral spokesman Bill Neidhardt said. Were at the front line, de Blasio said. Like in war, the generals are at back at the headquarters.  At the frontline, heres what were seeing  a lot of people arent ready to take the vaccine, there are some people adamantly opposed to taking the vaccine in those categories within A. If Ive got an essential worker or a first responder who is ready right now and we have really efficient ways to reach them because theyre part of the government  we can organize within our agencies very efficiently  theres no reason to hold that back, the mayor said. If you had a world where everyone said, I  percent want the vaccine ... then the governors theory would make a lot of sense.