Eventful year gives new leaders baptism of fire
2021-01-08 09:34
Ursula von der Leyen, speaking on Nov , had to respond to the coronavirus soon after taking over at the European Commission. XINHUA    European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen struck an optimistic note as  drew to a close. It was the first year, or  months to be exact, since she took office on Dec , . A former German defense minister, von der Leyen was ambitious, rolling out a Green Deal after  days in office. She pledged to make the European Union the first climateneutral continent by  and vowed to advance the EUs competitiveness, digitalization, rule of law, and building a geopolitical commission. COVID, which hit many EU member states hard since spring, made pandemic response the top job on her plate for most of that year. Today, we start turning the page on a difficult year, she wrote in a tweet on Dec  as COVID vaccines were dispatched to  EU member states for the next day launch of a vaccination program for the EUs  million people. The European Commission has tried hard to coordinate the pandemic response of its member states and has secured contracts for more than  billion doses of COVID vaccines. But it had failed to rally member states to work together when the pandemic was rapidly spreading in the spring. Some states unilaterally shut their borders and others imposed restrictions on protective medical equipment exports. Michele Geraci, a former undersecretary of state of Italys Ministry of Economic Development, said unfortunately the EU faced a pandemic that no one was expecting. As a European and true supporter of the development of Europe and a prosperous and peaceful continent, I am disappointed at the slow speed of response, the divisions within the EU and the resulting lack of any meaningful action to help fight the health and economic crisis, he said. After prolonged and tough negotiations, von der Leyen and United Kingdom Prime Minister Boris Johnson announced on Christmas Eve they had reached an agreement on future trade relations between the EU and the UK, narrowly avoiding a nodeal Brexit scenario that both sides were keen to avoid. EU ambassadors voiced no objection on Dec  to the ,page deal, which is still to be approved by the European Parliament. Besides a pledge on carbon neutrality by , EU leaders agreed in a summit on Dec  to set an ambitious target to cut greenhouse gas emissions by  percent instead of the previous goal of  percent by  from  levels. During the summit, EU leaders also sealed a deal for the blocs historic . trillion . trillion budgetandrecovery package, including over  trillion euros in its  longterm budget and  billion euros in a recovery fund known as Next Generation EU to fight COVID. Now we can start with the implementation and build back our economies, European Council President Charles Michel tweeted after the deal was reached. Our landmark recovery package will drive forward our green digital transitions, he said. Hungary and Poland had threatened to veto the deal, which links the fund to a countrys ruleoflaw situation. They later agreed to a compromise brokered by Germany, which held the presidency of the Council of the European Union in the second half of . The deal stipulated the measures will not be used until countries have a chance to challenge its legality at EUs top court. The European Commissions Autumn Economic Forecast in November forecast growth of . percent in  for the member eurozone. For , it expects the economy to shrink by . percent. For the member EU, the economy is forecast to contract by . percent in  before growing . percent in . Migration system The European Commission also made proposals in September to revamp its migration system, which has divided its members in the past. The proposal seeks to build confidence and strike a new balance between responsibility and solidarity, the commission said. EU leaders were among the first to congratulate Joe Biden on winning the  US presidential election after their apparent displeasure with many policies of Donald Trumps administration. After a rocky four years, it is time for a fresh start, EU foreign policy chief Josep Borrell said in December. But he noted it does not mean we will always agree or that we have identical interests with the United States. EU leaders repeatedly talked about strategic autonomy. The EU has pushed to preserve the Iran nuclear deal. Full and effective implementation by all remains crucial, Borrell wrote in a tweet in late December after meeting with foreign ministers from China, Russia, Germany, France, the UK, and Iran. Ding Chun, director of the Center for European Studies at Fudan University, said the new EU leadership has presented a pragmatic and cando attitude. Shada Islam, head of the New Horizon Project, a Brusselsbased global strategy and advisory firm, originally gave the new EU leadership a grade of B for its management of an EU which is divided over values and overall future direction, but then upgraded it to A after the conclusion of a ChinaEU investment treaty on Dec . All in all, VDL managed to steer the EU ship through very choppy waters. She deserves to be congratulated for that, she said of von der Leyen.