Youth worldwide recognize Chinas contributions
2021-10-19 21:45
Staff transport the Sinopharm vaccines donated by China at the Rafic Hariri International Airport in Beirut, Lebanon, April , . PhotoXinhua    International youth demonstrated a widespread favorable attitude toward China and highly recognized the countrys accomplishments in fighting the COVID pandemic, according to a study published on Tuesday. The report, titled China and the World in the Eyes of International Youth, was released during a parallel panel themed Shared Future and Youth Actions at the th World Forum on China Studies that kicked off in Shanghai on Monday. The reports data is collected from , interviews across  countries, covering younger generations ranging from age  to , said Sun Ming, vicepresident of the Academy of Contemporary China and World Studies. The study seeks to objectively present international youths understanding of important topics, such as the relationship between China and the world. The percentage of youth who hold a positive attitude toward China and Chinas domestic governance is higher in developing countries than in developed nations, said the report. International youths rating of Chinas domestic governance is overall positive. Those who have been to China or have more understanding of China gave more positive ratings on average, the report said. International youth demonstrated high desire to visit China, specifically due to attractions of the countrys nature sceneries, culture, and local lifestyle. The report showed that the percentage of youth who want to study in China is higher in developing countries than in developed nations, noting a widespread recognition among international youth in Chinas participation and performance in global governance, as well as many believing China to be a contributor to global development. International youth also expressed widespread recognition of Chinas accomplishments in fighting against the COVID pandemic, with those in developing countries having more positive opinions. In addition, international youth universally recognized the positive significance of building a community with a shared future for mankind and over  percent recognizing the personal, national, and global positive significance of learning and exchange between civilizations, said the report. Themed The Communist Party of China, China and the World, the th World Forum on China Studies was attended by more than  scholars and opinion leaders from various fields around the world. Participants discussed the history of the CPC and its political, economic, social, cultural and international significance to China and the world. The forum consisted of a plenary session, five parallel panels, and five sideline events. Renowned international scholars and experts gave speeches on topics such as Chinas path to modernization, global governance, the countrys th FiveYear Plan, and global economic recovery. The parallel panels were hosted by top Chinese think tanks, including the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences, the Shanghai Institutes for International Studies, and the China Center for International Economic Exchanges, and the Shanghai Academy of Social Sciences.