Tokyo Olympics a silver lining in pandemic clouds
2021-01-07 07:28
LI MINCHINA DAILY    That Tokyo will host the postponed Olympic Games from July  to Aug , , and the Paralympic Games from Aug  to Sept  is encouraging news for not only Japan but also China because Beijing is scheduled to hold the  Winter Olympic Games. The Olympics symbolizes resilience and promotes global solidarity, so the news of a country eventually hosting the Summer Games will naturally be uplifting for a neighbor scheduled to host the Winter Games in the following year. In fact, during his visit to Japan in late November, State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi and Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga pledged that the two countries will support each other in hosting the Tokyo  Summer Olympics and the Beijing  Winter Olympics. After the Tokyo  Olympics was deferred to  due to the COVID pandemic, the International Olympic Committee, the Japanese government, the Tokyo metropolitan government and the Tokyo organizing committee met in late March and agreed to hold the Games in JulyAugust. Indeed, the IOC and the Tokyo organizing committee were eager to tell the world as soon as possible that the Tokyo Games will be held in . Yet the pandemic still poses a threat to normal public life across the world, especially because a new variant of the novel coronavirus first detected in the United Kingdom has already spread to other countries including Germany, South Africa, Norway and the Republic of Korea and some other countries. True, vaccines have been developed and could prove effective in the global fight against the pandemic, but given the mutating capability of the virus, the future is anything but predictable. The idea to postpone the Tokyo Games last year came from Shinzo Abe, then Japanese prime minister. Since Abes grandfather Nobusuke Kishi, who played a key role in Japan winning the bid to host the  Olympic Games, which paid rich dividends to the Japanese economy, Abe too wanted to use the Olympics to invigorate the Japanese economy and leave a lasting economic legacy. And since Abes term was originally scheduled to last up to September he was forced to quit office last year due to health reasons, it was decided to defer the Games by one year. But domestic polls and economic barometers indicate there is little possibility of the  Olympics miracle being repeated today. According to available data, the Tokyo organizing committees budget adds up to . billion, with all but . billion being public money. The Tokyo Olympics is expected to generate . billion in revenue, and the real benefits were likely to come from the estimated  million tourists expected to visit Japan from around the world during the Olympics. But the pandemic has put paid to those hopes. The pandemic has upset the costbenefit ratio of the Tokyo Olympics. Worse, the extra cost of implementing prevention and control measures has increased the burden of the Tokyo organizing committee. Although the decision of the IOC and the Tokyo organizing committee to host the Olympics on a subdued scale is likely to save  million, the additional expenditure caused by the delay and the pandemic prevention and control measures will be far more than that. Besides, whether the reduction in the number of events at the Games would lower the bar for broadcasters and sponsors is not yet known. And the increasing pressure of mounting costs and declining profits has created an additional problem for the Games organizers. Perhaps the biggest challenge facing the IOC and the Tokyo organizing committee is how to hold the Olympics in the best spirit and atmosphere. The key Olympic partners will hold discussions with the Japanese government, Tokyo metropolitan government and the Tokyo organizing committee until the very end of this year to hammer down the costs. Based on the overall budget announced in December , the organizing committee will account for  billion yen . billion while Tokyo metropolitan government will shoulder . billion yen and the Japanese government  billion yen. In spite of the predicament and dilemma, IOC President Thomas Bach and Japanese Prime Minister Suga have sent a strong positive message saying the hosting of the Olympic Games is like the proverbial light at the end of the tunnel. Thats why they have been making strenuous efforts to hold the Games despite the financial pressures. As close neighbors, China and Japan are scheduled to host two Olympic Games in successive years, and the success of the Tokyo Summer Games will shed a positive light on the Beijing Winter Games, apart from boosting peopletopeople exchanges, propelling economic growth and strengthening the fight against the pandemic. The author is an expert in Olympic studies.The views dont necessarily represent those of China Daily. If you have a specific expertise and would like to contribute to China Daily, please contact us at opinionchinadaily.com.cn, and commentchinadaily.com.cn.