Distribution of homegrown jab starts in the UK
2021-01-05 17:28
Brian Pinker, , receives the Oxford UniversityAstraZeneca COVID vaccine from nurse Sam Foster at the Churchill Hospital in Oxford, Britain, Jan , . PhotoAgencies    Downing Street also urged to elevate lockdown and put off school reopening The United Kingdom started vaccinating people on Monday with its homegrown novel coronavirus inoculation developed by the BritishSwedish pharmaceutical giant AstraZeneca and the University of Oxford. Health Secretary Matt Hancock described the rollout as a pivotal moment in the fight against the virus and the COVID disease it causes. He said the vaccine offers hope lockdowns can eventually be eased. Its going to be a tough few weeks ahead, but this is the way out, he said on the BBCs morning news program Breakfast. Hancock said the UK has , doses of the vaccine in hand and is expecting another huge consignment this week. The UK is also using a vaccine developed by Pfizer and BioNTech and has administered more than  million doses since Dec . London has ordered around  million doses of the two vaccines. Stephen Powis, the National Health Services medical director, told the BBC The NHSs biggest vaccination program in history is off to a strong start, thanks to the tremendous efforts of NHS staff, who have already delivered more than  million jabs. Prime Minister Boris Johnson has said he expects millions of people to be injected each week, after logistical issues are ironed out. But he said that will not be enough to avoid an imminent strengthening of lockdowns in England, in the face of a mutation of the virus that is spreading very quickly. Hancock agreed, saying on Radio s Today program that the old tier system is no longer strong enough to contain the virus. After more than , new COVID cases were recorded on Sunday, the Labour Party, Britains official opposition, urged Johnson to immediately impose a full national lockdown. The devolved governments of Northern Ireland, Wales, and Scotland have taken similar steps. And teaching unions called on Johnson to abandon thoughts of compelling children to return to school. Secondary schools and colleges were ordered to remain closed until at least Jan  following the Christmas vacation but the government wanted many primary schools outside London and the Southeast to reopen on Jan  as planned. ITV News said on Monday that many primary schools did not open their doors as ordered but emailed parents to say a shortage of teachers had forced their closure. One unnamed primary school teacher told the broadcaster I fear for my coworkers, my family, and my own health. We feel vulnerable, scared and anxious. The UKs largest teachers union, the National Education Union, said schools should be allowed to switch to remote learning for the next two weeks and it urged teachers to work from home on safety grounds. A joint letter from the nations main education unions said forcing teachers back into the classroom would expose them to serious risk of illhealth and risks increasing the infection rate. The Financial Times noted that the UK has also now deployed more than , members of the armed forces to help in the fight against the pandemic, which makes it Britains largest homeland peacetime operation. Many of those helping out are involved in either the rollout of the two vaccines or the virustesting of students. While the pandemic has kept members of the armed forces, teachers, and medical workers extremely busy, the full extent of its idling of the nations enterprises became clear with the publication of analysis by the industry magazine Retail Week that shows , retail jobs were lost in , along with , stores. The Centre for Retail Research said the job losses were  percent higher than those of the year before. And the economic fallout from the virus is likely to also hit the corporate sector, with several top law firms saying they may cut their floorspace requirements by as much as  percent in the face of changes in working practices that are expected to be permanent. Matt Doughty, chief operating officer at law firm DWF, told the Financial Times Survey results are suggesting people want to work at home three days a week. He said companies simply do not need the space they did, although he said long leases mean many will have to wait before downsizing.