Xi calls for closer partnership with Argentina
2021-01-05 07:00
Chinese and Argentine national flags flutter on lampposts on the Tiananmen Square in Beijing, China, Feb , . PhotoIC    President Xi Jinping and his Argentine counterpart, Alberto Fernandez, have vowed to jointly guide the comprehensive strategic partnership between the two countries to further develop bilateral ties while advancing the building of a community with a shared future for mankind. In a recent exchange of letters, the two presidents also pledged to strengthen teamwork in fighting the COVID pandemic and promote highquality Belt and Road cooperation, according to a statement released on Monday. In his letter to Fernandez, Xi mentioned his phone conversations and multiple exchanges of letters with the Argentine president as well as the important consensus they reached on deepening bilateral relations and strengthening cooperation in areas such as battling COVID. The pandemic is a severe test for the whole world, Xi said, adding that the two nations have stood together and helped each other in the joint fight against the disease, and their traditional friendship has been further strengthened in the process. He said that China stands ready to strengthen cooperation with Argentina in the research, development and use of COVID vaccines, and will continue to provide as much support and assistance as possible to the South American country. Fernandez highly commended the development of bilateral ties and Chinas achievements in epidemic control, and thanked China for its support for Argentina in the fight against the virus. In the face of the pandemic, countries should be united, respect and support each other, and stay committed to building a community with a shared future for mankind, Fernandez said. He said China meeting its poverty reduction target as scheduled as well as its remarkable achievements in science and technology will benefit the Chinese people and the entire world. Both Argentina and China uphold multilateralism, support dialogue among nations and remain committed to strengthening regional dialogue for harmonious development, Fernandez said. Adding that the Belt and Road Initiative is conducive to strengthening countries connectivity and enhancing mutual understanding, the Argentine president said his country is willing to strengthen cooperation with China in the field of vaccine development and promote the ArgentinaChina comprehensive strategic partnership for greater progress.