Nations act as cases rise in Europe
2021-11-20 09:29
Empty tables and chairs are seen outside a beer hall in central Berlin on Thursday. PhotoAgencies    Countries across Europe are seeing a sharp rise in COVID cases, particularly among unvaccinated people, with many nations including Austria, Belgium and the Netherlands introducing measures in an effort to avoid new fullscale lockdowns. The head of Germanys infectious disease agency has warned that the nation faces a serious emergency unless steps are taken to counter the soaring number of infections. Germanys Robert Koch Institute said on Thursday that , newly confirmed cases had been reported in a single day, a record, agencies reported. We are currently heading toward a serious emergency, The Associated Press quoted Lothar Wieler, the director of the Robert Koch Institute, as saying. If we dont act now we are going to have a really bad Christmas. He also criticized Germanys politicians for not heeding warnings about the spread of the virus. Its a very clear message, but after  months I just cant bear it any longer that its simply not recognized what I and many other colleagues are saying. The news agency reported that Wieler also said Germany needs to raise its vaccination rates from  percent to above  percent, adding that some regions of the country have even lower rates. Hospitals across the nation were struggling with capacity for COVID patients and those with other illnesses, he said. He also called for the closure of clubs and bars, and an end to large events. On Wednesday, Chancellor Angela Merkel said the nation was in the grip of a fourth wave of infections as the number of daily cases increased sharply. The current pandemic situation in Germany is dramatic. I cant say it any other way. The fourth wave is hitting our country with full force, she said. Partial measures Governments across Europe are responding to the surge in cases with partial measures, Euronews reported. Nations are attempting to tackle the rise in cases with various measures, ranging from introducing lockdowns for the unvaccinated to limiting access to services, or pushing for an increase in vaccination rates, it said. Sweden will introduce a COVID vaccination pass from Dec , and the social affairs minister, Lena Hallengren, urged people to get vaccinated. Vaccination rates vary from country to country across the continent, the broadcaster said. In Slovakia, the rate is among the lowest in the European Union at  percent, while the rate in the Czech Republic is  percent, and in Austria it is  percent. Austria and the Netherlands have both registered a record high number of daily infections this past week. Austria introduced a lockdown for an estimated  million unvaccinated people on Monday, and the Netherlands has already brought in a partial lockdown. Belgium has reintroduced compulsory work from home measures, and Czech authorities will ban from public events people who cannot prove they have been vaccinated or have recovered from COVID. The BBC noted that France reported more than , new cases on Wednesday, although a government spokesperson was quoted as saying there are no plans for measures beyond the current COVID passport as its vaccination and health pass meant it was coping better than previously.