Mainland sees  more cases of COVID
2021-01-02 08:08
A staff member displays samples of the COVID inactivated vaccine at Sinovac Biotech Ltd, in Beijing, March , . PhotoXinhua    The Chinese mainland reported  newly confirmed COVID cases on Thursdaynine of them locally transmitted and  importedthe National Health Commission said in a daily report published on its website on Friday. Five of the locally transmitted cases were reported in Beijing and four in Liaoning province, it said. Two of the cases in Liaoning were in Shenyang, the provincial capital, and two in the port city of Dalian, the Liaoning Provincial Health Commission said on Friday. Dalian also reported three asymptomatic cases, all locally transmitted. Shenyang classified another five areas in the city as mediumrisk COVID zones on Friday, the provincial health commission said. The mainland now has  mediumrisk COVID areas, with five in Beijing,  in Shenyang,  in Dalian and two in Heihe, Heilongjiang province. There are no places classified as highrisk. Shenyang has imposed lockdown measures on its mediumrisk areas, banning all their residents from leaving the city. People living in other parts of the city have been urged to avoid traveling elsewhere unless absolutely necessary. Those who do need to leave the city must have a negative result from a nucleic acid test conducted within the past  hours, according to a regulation released by Shenyangs COVID epidemic prevention and control headquarters that came into force on Friday. Chengdu, Sichuan province, which reported  cases in an outbreak from Dec  to , has lowered the risk level in all its formerly mediumrisk areas to low because no additional positive results were reported for  days, the citys health commission said in a notice published on its WeChat account on Thursday. The outbreak in Chengdu was traced to imported cases from Nepal, the notice said. Some people from Nepal who arrived in Chengdu were put under quarantine for medical observation in a village in Chengdus Pidu district on Nov . Five of them tested positive for coronavirus infection in nucleic acid tests on Nov  and Nov . Staff members working at the quarantine place failed to put trash in designated places, the notice said. The first patient was probably infected by touching the trash and spread the coronavirus to the other patients.