US COVID cases hit grim milestone of m on New Years Day
2021-01-02 02:39
PhotoAgencies    WASHINGTON  The confirmed COVID cases in the United States topped  million on Friday as the discovery of a highly contagious new virus strain in the country increases pressure to speed up the vaccination process. The United States reported over . million cases and more than , related deaths Friday afternoon, according to a tally from Johns Hopkins University. The country, which makes up about  percent of the worlds population, now accounts for nearly onequarter of over . million cases,  percent of . million deaths reported worldwide, showed the universitys data. PANDEMIC CONTINUES TO WORSEN It took  days for the United States to reach its first  million cases, but only  more days to double it, reported CNN on Friday. U.S. experts and media outlets have attributed the U.S. failure to contain the virus to, among others, an absence of a national strategy, politicized policies as well as misinformation and conspiracy theories. The actual pace of infections probably was different... A U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention CDC modeling study suggests as many as  million people in the United States might have been infected from February through September alone, said the report. The grim numbers could climb further nationwide in the coming weeks due to a surge of gatherings and travels over the holidays despite warnings against doing so amid the worsening pandemic, according to public heath experts. An ensemble forecast published Wednesday by the CDC now projects there will be , to , coronavirus deaths in the country by Jan. . The current pandemic situation in the United States is still quite serious, especially in the state of California which accounts for about  percent of the countrys new cases, said Zhang Zuofeng, professor of epidemiology and associate dean for research with the school of public health at University of California, Los Angeles, in an interview with Xinhua on Friday. Medical resources in California are nearly exhausted, and the ICU is already full. Currently, the entire City of Los Angeles only has about  ICU beds approximately, Zhang said. A significant increase in morbidity and mortality may be seen after the holidays as datareporting were delayed during Christmas and New Year holidays, he said. People have sort of virus fatigue and they are easier to get infected when relaxed during gatherings and travels. Stanley Perlman, professor of microbiology and immunology at the University of Iowa, told Xinhua on Friday that he also feared cases would increase after the holidays, with a gradual slowdown in February and March. Anthony Fauci, the nations top infectious disease expert, predicted on Thursday that normal life would not resume for most Americans until as late as next fall. If we do it correctly, hopefully, as we get into the end of the summer, the beginning of the fall of , we can start to approach some degree of normality, Fauci said in an interview on MSNBC. PRESSURE MOUNTING FOR VACCINATION SPEEDUP The million mark came a day after cases of the new COVID strain, which was first reported in the United Kingdom, were reported in states of Colorado, California and Florida. The new strain is apparently more transmissible, although this is not well proven. So far it is not more virulent. Of course, more cases are expected to result in more deaths, said Perlman. The discovery of the new virus strain in the United States is putting more pressure on state governments to speed up the ongoing vaccination process with a slower and messier start. Life will hardly get back to normal until the U.S. efficiently, quickly and effectively implement vaccination programs that have lagged behind schedule, as well as a rather strict adherence to personal mitigation measures such as hand washing, mask wearing and social distancing, Fauci told MSNBC. The federal government said it had received . million doses of the PfizerBioNTech or Moderna COVID vaccine as of Dec. , . But only . million people have been inoculated a series of two shots of either vaccine, according to CDC data. While the data is likely lagging behind actual numbers of vaccinations, federal officials have acknowledged the country failed to accomplish the Donald Trump administrations yearend goal of getting  million shots into arms, said a report posted on politico.com on Friday. The rollout of vaccines has been slower than expected, partly because of manufacturing and distribution issues and partly because both mRNA vaccines require a cold chain, said Perlman. Both PfizerBioNTech and Moderna vaccines need nonstop sterile refrigeration to stay potent and safe. The vaccination process will be accelerated once those sorts of logistical problems were resolved. The life will get back to normal if about  percent to  percent of the population are vaccinated by around June, said Zhang. The incoming Joe BidenKamala Harris administration, which will take office on Jan. , has slammed President Trumps handling of the pandemic and pledged to get the virus under control with national testing and vaccination plans and robust economic relief.