Former US State Secretary Powell dies of COVID complications
2021-10-18 20:25
Former US secretary of state Colin Powell in Moscow, Russia, April , . PhotoXinhua    WASHINGTON  Colin Powell, a former and the first AfricanAmerican secretary of state, has died at  of COVID complications, his family said Monday. Powells family said in a statement on Facebook that Powell, who also served as chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff before his role as the top US diplomat, died Monday morning despite being fully vaccinated. A professional soldier, Powell became the first AfricanAmerican national security advisor during the end of Ronald Reagans presidency and the youngest and first AfricanAmerican chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff under former President George H. W. Bush. Yet he was best known and most controversial when he served as secretary of state under former President George W. Bush between January  and January , regarding his push for the USled invasion of Iraq in  under the excuse that the Middle Eastern country possesses weapons of mass destruction, which was never proven. In an address to the United Nations UN in February , Powell presented what the US intelligence community claimed was proof that Iraq had cheated on inspectors and hidden the WMDs. There can be no doubt, Powell said then, that then Iraqi President Saddam Hussein has biological weapons and the capability to rapidly produce more, many more. The United States launched a war against Iraq six weeks after Powells speech, and eventually toppled Husseins government. Such WMDs, it turned out, were never found in Iraq, and a report published in  by a presidential commission said the intelligence communitys assessment that Iraq had WMD capabilities before the US invasion was dead wrong. This was a major intelligence failure, said the Commission on the Intelligence Capabilities of the United States Regarding Weapons of Mass Destruction in the report. In September , Powell, who had stepped down from the post of secretary of state, confessed in a television interview that his  UN speech was a blot on his record that would never go away. Born in New York City to Jamaican immigrants, Powell is survived by his wife and three children.