Muted fanfare closes year of woes
2021-01-01 07:30
Fireworks explode over the Sydney Opera House and Sydney Harbour Bridge during downsized New Years Eve celebrations during the COVID pandemic, in Australia, on Jan , . PhotoAgencies    The fireworks dazzle, but on screens for most as caution trumps partying The New Years Eve ending  was being celebrated like none before it, with pandemic restrictions limiting crowds and many people bidding farewell to a year theyd prefer to forget. After a grinding year that has seen nearly . million people die from COVID, fresh waves of infection have sparked renewed lockdowns and forced wouldbe revelers to extend their  tradition of watching events from the sofa. From Sydney to Rome, firework displays, pyre burnings and live performances were being watched online or on televisionif they had not been canceled altogether. Australia was among the first nations to ring in  because of its proximity to the international date line. In past years  million people crowded Sydneys harbor to watch fireworks that center on the Sydney Harbor Bridge. Pyrotechnics still lit up the glittering harbor with a dazzling display, but authorities had advised revelers to watch on television. People were only allowed in downtown Sydney if they had a restaurant reservation or were one of five guests of an innercity apartment resident. People were not allowed in the city center without a permit. Some harborside restaurants were charging up to , for a seat, Sydneys The Daily Telegraph newspaper reported on Wednesday. Sydney is Australias most populous city and has its most active community transmission of the novel coronavirus of recent weeks. In much the same manner as cautious Australians, Romans were livestreaming the burning of an enormous pyre in Circus Maximus, the ancient citys stadium, alongside a twohour event featuring performances and illuminated views of iconic sites. One place that residents were able to celebrate without the help of a screen was virusfree New Zealand, where several cities hosted firework displays with only limited restrictions. From France to Latvia to Brazil, police officers andin some casesmilitary personnel were deployed to enforce nighttime curfews or bans on gathering in large numbers. German Chancellor Angela Merkel on Thursday used her New Year greeting to warn Germans the historic coronavirus crisis would extend into  even if the vaccines bring some hope. And in Dubai, thousands were expected to attend a fireworks and laser show at Burj Khalifa, the worlds tallest tower, despite a slew of new cases. All those attending the eventwhether at a public place, hotel or restaurantwere required to wear masks and register with QR codes. In Japan, scores of flights were canceled as heavy snowfall hit several areas on Thursday, while New Years Eve celebrations were curtailed as the country tackles a third wave of the coronavirus pandemic. Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga had urged people to celebrate New Year quietly and avoid nonessential outings. In South Korea, Seouls city government canceled its annual New Years Eve bellringing ceremony in the Jongno neighborhood for the first time since it first held the event in . The event used to draw an estimated , people. Largely empty Times Square In New York, for the first time in more than a century, Times Square was going without a massive crowd on New Years Eve. Instead of hundreds of thousands of people standing at the Crossroads of the World as a ball drops from atop the story One Times Square skyscraper to signal the start of a new year on Thursday night, there would be a virtual event on a webcast because of the pandemic. The show was expected to feature numerous performers throughout the evening. Times Square wasnt the only spot to be largely empty on New Years Eveso were many stores and hotels in the area that had been put out of business because of the pandemic. Street vendors no longer offer food in the area, and also missing were the various costumed characters seeking tips for a photo with them. Look at this empty Times Square, Peter, the manager of Lan Sheng, a Michelinstarred Szechuan restaurant in Times Square, said in the leadup to New Years Eve. It is a disaster for us. No tourists and no office workers  percent of our business has been gone. Agencies and Minlu Zhang in New York contributed to this story.