Almost one in four Americans describe  as awful survey
2020-12-31 16:26
Family members and loved ones of Jose Garcia, who died from coronavirus disease COVID, cry as he is laid to rest at the San Jose Cemetery in La Mesa, New Mexico, US, Dec , . PhotoAgencies    WASHINGTON  When Americans were asked to describe the year  in a single word in a recent survey, nearly one in four of them used awful,terrible, or horrible. The USA TodaySuffolk University poll of , registered voters taken on Dec  also found that  percent of the respondents used expletives, and that nearly all of them cited words that reflected strain or pain. Only  percent chose positive words such as OKwonderfulgood or enlighteningawakening, while another  percent used neutral words, like unprecedented and different. In , the United States had one of the most divisive presidential elections in history with the highest voter turnout in  years, witnessed nationwide reckoning on racial justice following the brutal killing of George Floyd, and continued to see spiking COVID cases and deaths. In its report, USA Today said that the country is standing at a crossroad with regard to four significant questions Whether democracy is damaged whether race issues have reached a turning point whether the pandemic can be vanquished and whether voters enthusiasm for political participation can last. Were going to look back in  years and say this was the year of fundamental changes, the newspaper cited Jim Messina, who ran President Barack Obamas reelection campaign in , as saying. Those changes, the report said, have affected the contours of the economy, the power of social media, the strength of political parties bases and Americans views of the role of government. With respect to the pandemic, the report warned that even though the country has started the distribution of vaccines, tunnel has gotten darker than ever as cases, deaths and hospitalizations have all reached new heights in December. The United States, it said, is in the midst of such a broad and deadly public health crisis with repercussions that are shaping other pressing challenges, such as the fact that millions of Americans have lost their jobs amid the pandemic, and the widening economic divide.