Chinese vaccine proves . pct effective against COVID in phase study
2020-12-30 17:59
A coronavirus disease COVID Human Immunoglobulin for Intravenous Injection from China National Biotec Group CNBG. PhotoAgencies    BEIJING  A Chinese inactivated vaccine shows . percent efficacy against COVID, according to the interim results of the phase clinical trials unveiled by its developer Wednesday. The inactivated vaccine is developed by the Beijing Biological Products Institute Co Ltd under the China National Biotec Group, which is affiliated with Sinopharm. After a twodose inoculation procedure, the vaccine receivers all produced high titers of antibodies, and the seroconversion rate of neutralizing antibodies reached . percent. The results meet the requirements of technical standards of the World Health Organization and the standards stipulated by Chinas National Medical Products Administration. The company has submitted an application to the NMPA for conditioned market approval. China has adopted five technological approaches in developing COVID vaccines, with  vaccines entering clinical trials, of which five are undergoing phase clinical trials. To protect highrisk groups, China approved the emergency use of COVID vaccines in June. China has already conducted nearly  million emergency inoculations, which were given on a voluntary, informed basis and in accordance with relevant laws and regulations. Inactivated vaccines for emergency use include two inactivated vaccines developed by the CNBG and one by Sinovac Biotech. They have all entered international phase clinical trials. About , people overseas have been enrolled in the phase trials of the three vaccines, with , doses inoculated. Study results have shown no serious safety threats, Zheng Zhongwei, an official with the National Health Commission, said in a press conference earlier this month. Some of the Chinese vaccine developers have just obtained enough samples for the interim analysis of phase clinical trials and are submitting related materials to the NMPA, Zheng has said, adding that only vaccines meeting certain standards will be allowed to enter the market. Next, with COVID vaccines officially approved to enter the market or the yield of vaccines improving steadily, China will put more vaccines into use, inoculating the eligible population as widely as possible, Cui Gang, an official with NHCs disease control department, has said.