set to be strong year for Chinas economy
2020-12-30 10:56
A bird view of Beijings central business district, which is home to the headquarters of a great number of companies on the Fortune Global . PhotoVCG    As we approach the end of , we know that Chinas economy will have grown at the slowest annual rate since , caused by the . percent yearonyear fall in the first quarter, when the COVID pandemic was at its harshest in China. Since then the economy has begun a recovery with . percent in the second quarter and . percent in the third quarter. We will not know the full year figures until into January, but data suggest a continuation of the third quarter progress, perhaps exceeding  percent yearonyear. The International Monetary Funds latest forecast puts Chinas total annual growth rate at . percent, making it the only major economy in  to avoid a negative rate for the year. The initial turnaround reflected strong measures to bring COVID under control, enabling a restart of industrial activity, supported by government economic policies to assist businesses through more government spending and tax relief and to encourage employment which is essential for consumer spending. Infrastructure investment has continued and monetary policy has been supportive, with regular cuts in lending rates and in the banks reserve requirements. A promising sign has been that during the third quarter consumer spending has recovered with retail sales rising . percent yearonyear in September, the highest reading so far this year. As confidence returns, this has been reflected in the central bank choosing to hold off further easing to ensure a balance between debt risks and economic stability. The expected strong fourth quarter performance has been kickstarted by strong domestic activity including travel and hospitality in the October Golden Week, with data from the Ministry of Culture and Tourism showing that there were  million trips within China over the eightday holiday. The recovery will have come against a background of second waves of the virus in major Western economies and some disruptions to international trade. Chinas exports have continued to grow particularly boosted by medical supplies and electronic goods but Chinas leadership has nevertheless sought to protect the economy from difficult headwinds internationally. A key concept has been the policy of dual circulation, which involves leveraging the dual forces of domestic and global demand, thus developing domestic capacity while pursuing any opportunities arising in global markets. A digital campaign calls for . trillion over five years in G, smart cities and other technological infrastructure, and a push to adopt this approach globally.  has the potential to be a strong year of economic growth in China with forecasts of  percent and above to be found among economists. It is mathematically inevitable that the first two quarters of  will be exceptionally strong, perhaps one of the best half years on record because they will reflect yearonyear comparisons with a first half of the  slump. This will be achieved despite the ongoing challenges that the world economy will face from lockdowns and activity restrictions from a resurgence of COVID across major nations. The second half of  will be compared with a relatively strong end to  in China, but momentum is expected to continue as the widespread deployment of vaccines globally will support recovery and return to a new normal in major economies and boost Chinas trade. Chinas success in global markets as they recover, will be underpinned by the recently signed Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership between AsiaPacific Nations, the prospect of a reset in USChina relations under a Bidenled administration and further progress in EUChina economic cooperation. As the year ends, China and the EU are working hard on a Comprehensive Agreement on Investments CAI to replace  existing bilateral investment treaties. So long as a global rollout of vaccines proceeds, Western economies can see an end to costly job protection schemes and business support and enjoy a return to growth which will be assisted by Chinas resurgence and in turn help sustain Chinas  growth. Lets approach  with confidence and cooperation. Colin Speakman is an economist and an international educator with CAPA The Global Education Network. The opinions expressed here are those of the writer and do not represent the views of China Daily and China Daily website. If you have a specific expertise and would like to contribute to China Daily, please contact us at opinionchinadaily.com.cn , and commentchinadaily.com.cn