UK records over , COVID cases overnight for first time
2020-12-30 09:04
People walk across London Bridge as the spread of the coronavirus disease COVID continues in London, Britain, Dec , . PhotoAgencies    LONDON  Britain recorded more than , coronavirus cases overnight for the first time since the outbreak of the COVID pandemic in the world, according to official figures released Tuesday. Another , people in Britain have tested positive for COVID, marking a new record daily increase in coronavirus cases in the country, according to the official figures. The total number of coronavirus cases in the country now stands at ,,, the data showed. Another  have died within  days of a positive test, bringing the total number of coronavirusrelated deaths in Britain to ,, the data showed. The latest figures were revealed as a scientist advising the British government warned Tuesday that decisive national action is needed to prevent a catastrophe in the new year. Britain is entering a very dangerous new phase of the pandemic due to the spread of a new coronavirus variant, said Prof Andrew Hayward, a member of the governments New and Emerging Respiratory Virus Threats Advisory Group Nervtag. Were going to need decisive, early, national action to prevent a catastrophe in January and February, he told BBC Radio s Today programme. The previous levels of restrictions that worked before wont work now, and so Tier Four restrictions are likely to be necessary, or even higher than that. British Health Secretary Matt Hancock is expected to announce any changes to Englands tier restrictions on Wednesday. Also on Tuesday, the chief of the countrys National Health Service NHS warned that Britain is back in the eye of the storm as the number of patients being treated for COVID in Englands hospitals has overtaken the peak in April. Now again we are back in the eye of the storm with a second wave of coronavirus sweeping Europe and, indeed, this country, Simon Stevens, the chief executive of the NHS, said during a visit to an NHS vaccination centre. The British governments Scientific Advisory Group for Emergencies SAGE has urged all regions of England to be placed in highest Tier Four restrictions, which require residents in the areas to stay at home, with limited exemptions. People are also urged to work from home when they can, and should not enter or leave those areas. The number of coronavirus patients being treated in London hospitals has increased by almost , since Christmas Eve, stark new figures reveal. On Monday, there were , people in hospital with the virus, compared to , on Dec , a  percent rise in five days. Unlike the UK as a whole London is yet to exceed its first wave peak of hospital patients, which hit , on April . London and many other parts of England have already been under Tier Four restrictions. For those in Tiers One, Two and Three, up to three households were allowed to meet only on the Christmas Day, while in Tier Four, people should not mix with anyone outside their own household, apart from support bubbles. To bring life back to normal, countries such as Britain, China, Germany, Russia and the United States are racing against time to develop coronavirus vaccines.