South Africa reimposes restrictions as COVID cases surpass  million
2020-12-29 16:49
Commuters, some wearing face masks, look on through a window at the Baragwanath taxi rank, amid the coronavirus disease COVID outbreak, in Soweto, South Africa, Dec , . PhotoAgencies    South Africa has introduced new restrictions to curb the spread of coronavirus as the country recorded over  million infection cases amid threats by a new variant of that appears more contagious than the virus that drove the first wave of infections. In an address to the nation on Monday evening, President Cyril Ramaphosa reintroduced bans on public gatherings except burials that can be attended by a maximum of  people, banned alcohol sales, extended the curfew from  pm to  am, and made wearing a mask in public places mandatory. Failure to wear masks in public spaces will lead to arrest and prosecution, with those convicted liable to a fine or imprisonment for six months. The restrictions will remain in place until Jan , after which they will be reviewed on the basis of the state of the pandemic in the country. The rapid rise in infections is being fueled by socalled superspreader events, including endofyear functions, family and social gatherings, and music and cultural events. This is a cause for great alarm, and points to an extreme lack of vigilance over the holiday period, Ramaphosa said. Since Christmas Eve, the country has recorded more than , new cases, with the majority emerging in KwaZuluNatal, the Western Cape, Gauteng and the Eastern Cape. We have let down our guard, and unfortunately we are now paying the price. We have continued to host and attend social gatherings and events that in many cases flout public health regulations, Ramaphosa said. He said hospitals, both private and public, are already close to full capacity in a number of provinces, and ICU beds are either full or rapidly filling up. In the Eastern Cape, for example, the number of hospitalizations and inhospital deaths has now surpassed the numbers witnessed in the first surge earlier this year, he said. Ramaphosa said the rate of infection among healthcare workers also is increasing rapidly, with , health employees in the public sector having been infected during the month of December, bringing the total number of infections to ,. We are at an extremely dangerous point in our fight against the pandemic, Ramaphosa said. Unless we act now and unless we act decisively, the number of new infections will far exceed what we experienced during the first wave and thousands more people will lose their lives. The president identified Cape Town and Johannesburg as hot spots, along with several other cities and districts. Ramaphosa said the government is working to secure a sufficient supply of vaccines in the shortest time possible to protect the most vulnerable in the community. He said in addition to the Covax vaccine that is expected in the second quarter of , the country is having parallel bilateral discussions with a number of vaccine manufacturers. As a country we need to build a strong partnership between the government and business sector to augment the resources required in financing the additional vaccines necessary to achieve herd immunity, Ramaphosa said. Engagements to this effect are at an advanced stage and we urge the private sector to continue their participation in this endeavor.