South Africa jolted with breach of m infections
2020-12-29 09:53
Children wait for handouts of food and other necessities at Coronationville Secondary School in Johannesburg, South Africa, on Wednesday.LUCA SOLAAFP    Health chief appeals to citizens on safety basics, and S. Korea detects virus variant JOHANNESBURGSouth Africa has logged its millionth case of COVID, with that unwanted distinction coming a day before South Korea on Monday became the latest country to detect a fastspreading variant of the coronavirus. The developments on two continents illustrate the scale of the challenge in turning back a pandemic that shows no signs of letting up. South Africa logged the infections milestone on Sunday, with ,, people having contracted the virus in Africas worsthit country. Today, we have breached the  million mark cumulative cases of COVID in South Africa, Health Minister Zweli Mkhize said. Mkhize said that, over the latest hour period, there were , new confirmed cases, with  deaths. The nations death toll from the virus rose to ,. Over  million tests have been conducted. Mkhize appealed to citizens to play their role in curbing COVID. We must adhere to nonpharmaceutical interventions to prevent the further spread of the virus, he said. It took two weeks for South Africa to move from , cases to ,. But it took only nine days to reach the  million mark. By Monday, the world had more than . million confirmed cases with more than . million deaths, according to Johns Hopkins University in the United States. South Koreas health authorities, in announcing the countrys first detected cases of the more transmissible COVID variant, said the infections were found in arrivals from Britain. The Korea Disease Control and Prevention Agency said in a statement that three South Koreans who had stayed in London and arrived in South Korea on Dec  tested positive for the new strain. The three were confirmed with the virus when they took tests after arrival, and have been under quarantine. Four other South Koreans, whose returns from Britain covered two dates, Nov  and Dec , tested positive. Investigations were carried out into whether they picked up the variant of the virus. Suspending flights The new strain, first detected in Britain, is known to be up to  percent more transmissible than the old one. South Korea has suspended all flights from Britain until Thursday. For the latest hour period, the country reported  more cases of COVID, raising the total number of infections to ,. The daily caseload stayed below , for twodays, with fewer tests having been done over the weekend. The new virus variant has also been detected in two people who went to Norway from Britain, the Norwegian Institute of Public Health said on Sunday. The travelers, who were not identified, went to Norway earlier in December and health workers will follow up with their close contacts, it said. Norway imposed travel restrictions this month on passengers from Britain amid concerns over the variant. In Israel, citizens on Sunday entered the countrys third nationwide lockdown as it gears up for a vaccination drive. The restrictions will last at least two weeks, pending a final decision by the cabinet. From  pm, all people are required to stay within  kilometer of their homes, except for commuting to workplaces that have been defined as essential, seeking medical care, attending legal proceedings, and exercising. Restaurants and shops have been closed, except for deliveries. Unlike in the two previous lockdowns, kindergartens, schools for children under six, as well as secondary schools for grades  and , remain open. The Israeli health ministry reported on Sunday morning a total of , infections and , deaths. In Asias worsthit country, the COVID tally rose to ,, in India on Monday, as , new cases were registered from the previous day, federal health ministry figures show. Xinhua  Agencies