MLB optimistic spring training to start on schedule
2020-12-28 10:09
The Los Angeles Dodgers Julio Urias pitches against the San Francisco Giants during the first inning at Dodger Stadium in Los Angeles, California, US, onJuly , . This years MLB season was shortened due to the pandemic, but the league is preparing for a full, game campaign in .PhotoAgencies    Major League Baseball managers have been told to prepare their teams for spring training in midFebruary, despite growing uncertainty surrounding the coronavirus in the United States.  MLB commissioner Rob Manfred met with managers last week and expressed optimism about starting spring training on schedule, and during recent online interviews with media, managers said they expect rigid health protocols to remain in place to prevent COVID outbreaks. The  season is scheduled to open on April . MLB instituted a number of policies during its pandemicshortened game regular season in  that produced better results as the year went on, largely keeping players and staff safe from infection as they crisscrossed the US. I think Major League Baseball was somewhat the petri dish, said Tampa Bay Rays manager Kevin Cash. We were the first big sport to really get going outside of a bubble. Obviously, if you look at last years situation, everybody adjusted on the fly. Now theres more sports that have done things, accomplished things. If s opening day is delayed, pitchers in particular could risk overextending themselves in the six weeks of spring training. The pitchers need to get on a pretty structured throwing program in order to be ready, said Colorado Rockies manager Bud Black. Even though well have six weeks to prepare for the first regularseason game, theres a buildup prior to spring training. Its important to pitchers. Seattle Mariners boss Scott Servais agreed, adding At the end of the day, we have to do the right thing, and its always been about health and safety, the wellbeing of players and fans as we deal with the issues surrounding the pandemic. Right now, were going as scheduled and planning on playing a game season, but you have to be adaptable. With a vaccine likely to be made available to MLB some time during the season, no team has said it will make it mandatory for playersbut most managers said they will take the opportunity to educate their players about it. I think well have a lot more information and clarity and direction in a couple of months, if and when that conversation becomes a reality, said New York Yankees manager Aaron Boone. I dont feel equipped to have that conversation today. Ideally, MLB would prefer to have players vaccinated before arriving to spring training, and is reportedly considering shortening the season to  or fewer games in order to make that happen. The players union wants the season to start on time, playing all  games with full pay. According to USA Today, for every day lost on the schedule, players will lose about  million in salaries. A year ago, in the game season that started on July , they were paid just  percent of their contracted salaries. Knowing what I know about last season, I feel that  can be played in full, said Arizona Diamondbacks manager Torey Lovullo. Im very hopeful for that. Im just proud of everyone in the industry, from top to bottom, who made that adjustment and made it work this year. We got to the finish line, there was a world champion for the  season. Meanwhile, the owners and the union are still at odds on whether there will be a universal designated hitter in  as they had this past season. MLB has agreed to implement the DH, but in return is seeking to expand the postseason from  to  teams. The union rejected the proposal believing the expanded postseason is much more valuable than simply having a DH. Its still highly likely the DH will be in the National League again this season, but without that certainty, MLB has notified teams they should not necessarily count on it.