Vaccine push takes on a global dimension
2020-12-28 09:55
Employees of a Greek healthcare logistics company handle COVID vaccines in Athens on Saturday. The first batch of vaccines arrived in the country that day. Vaccinations were due to begin on Sunday.MARIOS LOLOSXINHUA    More nations ready shots amid fears over virus variant PARISSeveral European Union countries were set to begin vaccinating their most vulnerable groups on Sunday as the number of confirmed COVID cases worldwide continued to rise and a new coronavirus variant spread internationally. The first doses of the PfizerBioNTech jab arrived in hardhit Italy, Spain and France on Saturday, ready for distribution to retirement homes and care staff. The approval and distribution of vaccines has boosted hopes that next year there could be a respite from the pandemic, which has killed more than . million people. Global COVID cases surpassed  million on Saturday, Johns Hopkins University said. A yearold woman in a care home became the first person in Germany to be inoculated on Saturday, in what the countrys health minister called a day of hope. The first injections were also given in Hungary and Slovakia. The three countries joined, among others, Britain, Canada, the United States, Switzerland, Serbia, Singapore and Saudi Arabia, which have also begun their vaccination campaigns. Vaccinations were set to begin at five Athens hospitals on Sunday, with health personnel and elderly residents of nursing homes. Greeces president, prime minister, and  government, military and police officials deemed essential to the functioning of the state will also be vaccinated in the first days. Reflecting the mood in Europe, Italian Foreign Minister Luigi Di Maio said Well get our freedom back, well be able to embrace again. He urged his compatriots to get the shot. However, polls show only  percent of Italians intend to have the injection, whereas scientists estimate herd immunity can only be reached if  to  percent have it. Flareups of the virus continue to force tougher restrictions, with Israel going into a twoweek general lockdown from Sunday and Frances health minister saying his government would take similar steps in the event of a postChristmas rise in cases. Jitters also remained over a new strain that has emerged in Britain and reached several other countries. Canada reported on Saturday that it had detected two variant cases in the province of Ontario in a couple who had not traveled recently nor had highrisk contacts with other people. This came as the province went into a lockdown the same day. Also, a person who traveled from London to Sweden to celebrate Christmas has been confirmed sick with the new and more infectious variant of the coronavirus that has been rapidly spreading in the UK recently. The new strain, which experts fear is more contagious, prompted more than  countries to impose travel restrictions on the UK. Across the world, people were still being urged to respect social distancing guidelines, even as millions celebrated Christmas. Switzerlands health minister Alain Berset said on Saturday that his country had put the emphasis on personal responsibility. However, he admitted that this approach had not worked and that the government blundered in easing restrictions too far, resulting in some of Europes fiercest infection rates during the pandemics second wave. In Australia, Sydneys COVID outbreak continued on Sunday with more than a quarter of a million people in lockdown as the city awaited word on whether any public New Years Eve celebrations will be allowed. Seven cases of the new coronavirus were reported in the state of New South Wales linked directly to the outbreak in Sydneys northern beaches suburbs, which are under a stayathome order until Wednesday. Apart from current vaccination plans, the United Kingdom will distribute Oxford Universitys COVID vaccine from Jan , according to plans being drawn up by ministers, The Sunday Telegraph reported. The government hopes to give the first dose of either the Oxford vaccine, which has been licensed to the pharmaceuticals company AstraZeneca, or the Pfizer vaccine to  million people over the next two weeks, the newspaper said. The Oxford vaccine is expected to be approved by medical regulators in days, the newspaper said. Argentina will begin vaccinating its citizens against the coronavirus on Tuesday using the recently delivered Russian Sputnik V vaccine, the government said on Saturday, following its approval by health authorities for emergency use. On Wednesday Argentina became the third country to approve the Sputnik V vaccine, after Russia and Belarus. Argentina has also approved the Pfizer and BioNTech COVID vaccine. Agencies  Xinhua