Iran says US approved funds transfer to buy COVID vaccines
2020-12-25 03:54
FILE PHOTO An Iranian flag is pictured near in a missile during a military drill, with the participation of Irans Air Defense units, Iran October , . Picture taken October , . PhotoAgencies    DUBAI  Iran has won US approval to transfer funds for coronavirus vaccines from overseas, the central bank chief said on Thursday, as its daily death toll fell to a threemonth low. Central Bank governor Abdolnaser Hemmati said an Iranian bank had received approval from the US Treasurys Office of Foreign Assets Control to transfer the money to a Swiss bank to pay for the vaccines. They Americans have put sanctions on all our banks. They accepted this one case under the pressure of world public opinion, Hemmati told state TV. Hemmati said Iran would pay around  million for initial imports of . million doses of vaccines from COVAX, a multiagency group dedicated to assuring fair access to vaccines for low and middleincome countries. Iranian officials have said repeatedly that US sanctions were preventing them from making payments to COVAX, to which some  economies have signed up. Irans Shifa Pharmed began registering volunteers this week for human trials of the countrys first domestic COVID vaccine candidate, Iranian media reported. Shifa Pharmed is a subsidiary of a large conglomerate controlled by Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, which was the subject of an awardwinning Reuters study in . Health Ministry spokeswoman Sima Sadat Lari told state TV earlier that  people had died of COVID in Iran in the past  hours, the lowest number since Sept. , taking total fatalities to , in the worst affected country in the Middle East. The fall in deaths comes after more than a month of nighttime traffic curfews and other restrictions in major cities. Police said , fines were issued nationwide on Wednesday for drivers breaking the curfew. Officials have cautioned that the danger of a resurgence in infections looms large. US President Donald Trump pulled out of the  nuclear deal between Iran and six world powers in  and imposed new sanctions on the country. Presidentelect Joe Bidens coming to power has raised the possibility that Washington could rejoin the agreement. Reuters