Tourism put back  decades, report says
2020-12-24 09:11
Divers swimming through the coral on Fijis Coral Coast on Dec , released by Reef Explorer Fiji. PhotoAgencies    The global tourism industry has suffered its worst year on record, with international arrivals dropping by  percent over the first  months of  and falling back to  levels, largely because of restrictions on movement, low consumer confidence and the global struggle to contain COVID. According to the latest data from the World Tourism Organization, or UNWTO, destinations welcomed  million fewer international tourists between January and October, compared to the same period of . This translates into a loss of  billion in export revenues from international tourism, more than  times the loss in , during the global economic crisis. Zurab Pololikashvili, UNWTO secretarygeneral, said Even as the news of a vaccine boosts traveler confidence, there is still a long road to recovery. We thus need to step up our efforts to safely open borders while supporting tourism jobs and businesses. It is ever clearer that tourism is one of the most affected sectors by this unprecedented crisis. The UNWTO estimates that based on current evidence, international arrivals will decline by  percent to  percent for the whole of , meaning global tourism will have returned to the levels of  years ago, with  billion fewer arrivals, and a loss of some . trillion in international tourism receipts. This massive drop could result in an economic loss of  trillion in world GDP. Asia and the Pacific, the first region to suffer the impact of the pandemic and the one with the highest level of travel restrictions to date, saw an  percent decrease in arrivals in the first  months of . The Middle East recorded a  percent decline, while Africa saw a  percent drop. International arrivals in both Europe and the Americas declined by  percent. Shortlived recovery In September and October, Europe recorded smaller decreases, of  percent and  percent respectively, compared to other world regions, following the slight but shortlived recovery in the peak summer months of July and August. The resurgence of the virus across the region has led to the reintroduction of some forms of travel restrictions. However, Europe is the region in which more destinations  percent as of Nov  have eased such restrictions, mainly among Schengen Area member states. At the other end of the spectrum, Asia and the Pacific continued to record declines of nearly  percent in September and October. The Americas have seen a gradual improvement since June, with comparatively lower decreases in international arrivals through October. This reflects the reopening of many destinations in the region, including small island developing states in the Caribbean. Data on international tourism expenditure continues to reflect very weak demand for outbound travel, according to the UNWTO. However, some large markets, such as the United States, Germany and France, have shown some signs of recovery in the recent months. Demand for domestic tourism continues to grow in some markets, including China and Russia. The start of vaccinations is expected to gradually increase consumer confidence. While a rebound in international tourism is expected by the second half of , the UNWTO expects a return to  levels in terms of international arrivals could take between twoandahalf and four years.