US weekly jobless claims drop for first time in three weeks
2020-12-24 03:57
PhotoAgencies    WASHINGTON  The number of initial jobless claims in the United States fell to , last week, the first decline in three weeks, the Labor Department reported on Wednesday. In the week ending Dec. , the number of Americans filing for unemployment benefits decreased by , from the previous weeks upwardly revised level of ,, according to a report released by the departments Bureau of Labor Statistics BLS. The decline came after the number rose for two consecutive weeks amid surging COVID cases. The previous weeks figure marked the highest in three months, indicating a disruption of the labor markets recovery. In the week ending Oct. , the figure dipped below , for the first time since late March, and has been largely declining in the following weeks, but the trend was reversed in the weeks ending Nov.  and Nov. , and then in the weeks ending Dec.  and Dec. . The latest jobless claims data suggest that employment could be flat to negative in December as Paycheck Protection Program PPP loans dried up and many stores and restaurants were forced to close for good, Diane Swonk and Yelena Maleyev, economists at Grant Thornton, a major accounting firm, wrote in a blog. Some of the surge in the first half of December reflected a catchup in claims that were delayed over the Thanksgiving holiday, they said, noting that initial unemployment claims remain close to four times the pace a year ago. The BLS report also showed that the number of people continuing to collect regular state unemployment benefits in the week ending Dec.  declined by , to . million. However, recipients of the Pandemic Unemployment Assistance, a federal program that applies to workers who usually do not qualify for regular state unemployment benefits such as the selfemployed and gig workers, rose by , to . million in the week ending Dec. . Meanwhile, recipients of the Pandemic Emergency Unemployment Compensation, which provides an additional  weeks of benefits for those who exhaust regular state benefits, dropped by , to reach . million in the week ending Dec. . The total number of people claiming benefits in all programs  state and federal combined  for the week ending Dec.  decreased by , but remained elevated at . million, signaling a stalled recovery in the labor market. Following months of deadlock over the size and scope of the new round of relief package, Democratic and Republican lawmakers finally reached a deal on Sunday. The House of Representatives and Senate both approved the relief package late Monday, along with . trillion dollars in government funding for the rest of the fiscal year, which ends on Sept. , , sending the giant spending bill to the president to sign into law. However, President Donald Trump on Tuesday lashed out at lawmakers over the newly approved billionU.S.dollar COVID relief package, threatening not to sign the bill if changes are not made to increase the amount of stimulus checks. The relief plan includes another round of direct payments for individuals, federal unemployment benefits  both at reduced levels  and more funding for PPP to support small businesses. It also features more funding for schools, testing and the distribution of vaccines. The new aid bill will allow people  dollars per week in supplements to both regular and special pandemic unemployment benefits through at least March , which is half the  dollars per week approved in the CARES Act in late March, Swonk and Maleyev noted. Ryan Sweet, senior director at Moodys Analytics, wrote in an analysis earlier this week that an extension of extra unemployment insurance benefits with  dollars per week is the key component of the agreement. This is especially significant now, as unemployment is still high and likely to go higher during the coming months, Sweet said, adding that the latest stimulus will likely help to avoid a doubledip recession. Adam Posen, president of Washingtonbased think tank Peterson Institute for International Economics, recently told Xinhua via email that the relief package supports individuals and some businesses, and was worth passing because we can relieve human suffering at zero interest rate cost, while noting that it has little to do with the recovery. The recovery would come in the spring with the vaccine and the policy already underway, so long as there isnt a new public health disaster, whether or not this package passed, Posen said.