No amount of time, effort to fight poverty is too much
2020-12-21 09:03
Workers clean the surface of persimmons in a greenhouse of Tianxi Green Agricultural Development Co in Fuping county, Shaanxi province, on Nov . The agricultural sector forms a major part of the areas development. YUAN JINGZHIFOR CHINA DAILY    UN General Assembly president highlights growing challenges amid pandemic, lauds Chinas exemplary achievements The world was already struggling to end poverty by  before the COVID pandemic hit, but the coronavirus is now also causing the first increase in global poverty in decades, according to latest development figures. While poverty is bad, and has been established as such, the COVID pandemic has made a bad situation worse, said Tijjani MuhammadBande, president of the th Session of the United Nations General Assembly. Before the onset of the pandemic, . billion people were classified as poor globally, with  million living in extreme poverty. The situation is getting more seriousit is estimated that by the year , more than  million people would have relapsed into poverty, due to COVID and climate change, MuhammadBande said. A study released by Kings College London and the Australian National University in the first week of April  paints an even grimmer pictureabout  million are at risk of falling into poverty due to the sharp decline in economic activity, according to the UN. Facing the severe situation, MuhammadBande said the UN, which has made poverty eradication a top priority, is making greater efforts to achieve its development goals. On June , the president launched the Alliance for Poverty Eradication, which will serve as a forum for member states to raise awareness about the danger that poverty poses to world peace, human rights and sustainable development. The alliance will play an important role in pulling together all the factors in poverty eradication and serving as a onestop networking, informationsharing and bridgebuilding center, said MuhammadBande, who was Nigerias permanent representative to the UN from  to . The alliance should provide a mechanism for taking on the poverty challenge from all possible, or at least, multidisciplinary, angles, he said. There is no amount of time and attention given to poverty eradication that is too much, MuhammadBande said. It no longer comes as a surprise that globally, one in  people live in extreme poverty and that one in nine people lack access to food, he said. The devastation and uncertainties of the COVID pandemic have added to the challenges, MuhammadBande said. This malady which added to the challenge of poverty eradication also opened our eyes to likely disruptions in the future, and hence the need to better prepare for them, he said at the inauguration of the alliance. MuhammadBande said the emerging consensus is that the pandemic will impact heavily on the capacities of leastdeveloped countries to eradicate poverty without external assistance. It is my hope that the spirit of international cooperation which informed the establishment of the United Nations will also influence the choices of member states in matters pertaining to poverty eradication, worldwide, he said. In this respect, I count on the newly inaugurated Alliance for Poverty Eradication to serve as the leading voice on poverty eradication, and to continue raising awareness about the necessity for multilateral cooperation on the matter, he said.