VP Pence gets a shot as Moderna vaccine nears US approval
2020-12-19 03:32
US Vice President Mike Pence receives the COVID vaccine at the White House in Washington, US, December , . PhotoAgencies    WASHINGTON  US Vice President Mike Pence received a COVID shot on live television Friday as the country prepared to greenlight its second vaccine in a boost to the planets unprecedented immunization campaign. Pences move  the most highprofile attempt yet at persuading the many vaccineskeptic Americans  came as inoculation efforts unfurled worldwide in the race to halt a pandemic that has killed at least . million people and infected more than  million. Yet in hardhit Europe  which is yet to approve a vaccine  unease mounted after Slovakias yearold Prime Minister Igor Matovic tested positive Friday for COVID a week after attending an EU summit in Brussels. The summit is believed to be where French President Emmanuel Macron caught the virus, an announcement a day earlier that led a host of European leaders and top French officials to rush into selfisolation. Macron acknowledged Friday he had been slowed down by his infection, but insisted he was doing well and still actively involved in priority government business including Brexit. Elsewhere, world leaders from Russian President Vladimir Putin and Israels Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu are also pledging to get public injections in order to boost faith in the vaccines. Building confidence in the vaccine is what brings us here this morning, Pence said after receiving the PfizerBioNTech shot on the White House complex, with his wife and the countrys chief medical officer Jerome Adams. I didnt feel a thing, Pence said. The event capped the USs first week of a mass vaccination program with the PfizerBioNTech shot against a virus that has killed more than , Americans. Another vaccine, made by Moderna, is now expected to become the second shot allowed in a Western country after a panel of US experts recommended emergency use approval. President Donald Trump, who has systematically downplayed the seriousness of COVID throughout the pandemic, was notably absent from Pences vaccination event. But he has been eager to take credit for recordfast vaccine breakthroughs. He sparked some confusion Friday by jumping the gun to declare Moderna approved, ahead of the final verdict from the Food and Drug Administration expected later in the day. Distribution to start immediately, Trump tweeted. AFP