Optimism returns for Chinas economy
2020-12-18 07:15
Shi Yu  China Daily    Despite the COVID pandemic dealing a severe blow to the global economy in , vaccine developments have fueled optimism about global growth. And although major uncertainties remain about the speed of global vaccine rollout, we at Oxford Economics anticipate a sustained relaxation of social distancing in , and thus a rebound of economic activity worldwide. In some advanced economies, this should occur around MarchApril, while in many others, especially emerging markets, it will happen later. But even the vaccine laggards will benefit from spillover effects from the pickup in other economies. China has already recovered from the pandemicinduced plunge in the first quarter of , and therefore it will enter  on a strong footing. SinoUS relations likely to improve somewhat As for the allimportant SinoUS relationship, the incoming Joe Biden administration is likely to pursue a more pragmatic and steady China policy. Which would be a positive considering the aggressive and unpredictable policy of the current US administration, which has weighed on investment and economic activity. Also, more dialogue and cooperation on global commons such as climate change and public health should help to reduce bilateral tensions and risks. But we dont think Biden, after being sworn in as US president, will materially ease the US stance on economic and technological restrictions affecting China. So we dont expect the existing US tariffs and technology restrictions against China to be removed any time soon. Chinas growth is likely to rotate in , with momentum picking up in household consumption and corporate investment, while investment in infrastructure and, to a lesser extent, real estate, slows down. For much of , growth in industry and investment has led the recovery, with consumption gaining more momentum toward the end of the year. Yet household consumption momentum may gain speed next year, driven by employment gains and the fading out of COVID and economyrelated anxiety, reflected in a further fall in the household savings rate after the rise in the first half of . With confidence, profitability and global economic prospects all improving and the new US administration likely to reduce geopolitical risks, we expect corporate investment, which we estimate makes up about onehalf of total investment, to recover after being weak in much of . But infrastructure investmentmore than a quarter of total investmentis likely to lose steam in the first half of , because financing is contained amid a less generous macropolicy stance. And though there is likely to be substantial growth of new infrastructure in areas such as G, new energy and electric vehicle infrastructure and data centers, much of this will show up as corporate investment. The less generous macropolicy stance should also affect real estate investment, which makes up the rest of investment. In addition, financial conditions for property developers will likely remain relatively tight and some large cities may further strengthen property policy. And though Chinas export prospects are good, reflecting strong global recovery, the countrys performance is set to be less impressive compared with . Our forwardlooking indicator for global trade and the new export order component of Chinas manufacturing purchasing managers index bodes well for the demand for exports. But many oneoff pandemicrelated purchaseswhich have boosted Chinas exports this yearwont recur in . In addition, a global rotation is likely within consumption from goods to services as vaccine availability reduces the need for social distancing. These factors will weigh on Chinas export performance relative to global demand after the sharp market share gains in . Overall, imports should continue to expand substantially, but the shift in Chinas growth pattern will support some imports more than others. We expect capital goods exporters in countries such as Germany and Japan to benefit from the above rotation, with less room for commodity imports to expand strongly as the momentum of infrastructure and real estate investment eases. Expect a tighter macro stance With the economic recovery consolidating in the first halfyearonyear growth will be about  percent in the first quarterand the th FiveYear Plan  aiming for lower but higherquality growth, Chinas macropolicy is likely to change from expansionary to contractionary. On the fiscal side, the move to restrain infrastructure spending will be part of a more general fiscal tightening policy. While we forecast some targeted stimulus measures, we expect the overall government deficit to come down by about  percentage points of GDP. And on the monetary side, policymakers are expected to focus on containing macro leverage after the steep rise in . So while it is unlikely to see any significant increases in policy interest rates and the share of deposits that banks need to park with the Peoples Bank of China, we think policymakers will constrain overall credit growth to  percentbroadly in line with nominal GDP growthand contain financial risks. As such, financial regulations, including shadowbanking regulations, may be tightened somewhat. While the shift to lessgenerous financial conditions will affect growth, especially that of policysensitive infrastructure and real estate investment, the impact on corporate investment should be more than offset by improved profitability. Moderate growth from one quarter to another In this setting, we expect relatively moderate quarteronquarter GDP growth in , with sequential growth stronger in the second half on better global growth and some adjustment of the policy stance. Chinas balance of payment situation is likely to remain relatively solid. And based on the export and import trends discussed above, we expect the current account surplus to ease in . But given its solid growth prospects, much higher interest rates than in developed countries and further opening up of its financial markets, China can expect strong flows of inward foreign direct investment and portfolios next year. Besides, there is further scope for the yuans appreciation. In ,Chinas central bank largely allowed pressure on exchange rate appreciation to run its course and broadly abstained from intervening. Barring drastic foreign exchange pressure, the authorities are expected to maintain that stance in . So we forecast the US dollaryuan exchange rate to reach . by the end of  compared with . at the end of this year, though there could be significant exchange rate fluctuations over and above the underlying trend.The guidelines for the th FiveYear Plan indicate that, while growth remains a key objective of Chinas leadership, the growth target will be set meaningfully lower than the . percent during the th FiveYear Plan  period. Hence, we expect China to continue to make progress with productivityenhancing reforms. China is also expected to take measures to further open up its economy, especially its financial sector, despite the USChina trade war and the economic and technological restrictions imposed by the US on China.Based on the substantial steps it has taken in , China may lower import tariffs further and raise or remove foreign ownership caps and capital flow quotas. Foreign firms want to keep operating in China But China will likely hold on to its Stateled development strategy, with the State continuing to guide economic development, including via industrial policy and a strong role for Stateowned companies. As a result, other countries will push for changes in economic policy toward a separation of the State and businesses, competitive neutrality and a level playing field for companies other than SOEs. And, as noted, the Biden administration makes a common frontespecially among the United States, the European Union and, possibly, Japanon this more likely. There is enough interest, however, among governments and companies worldwide to continue to engage with China. Our longterm outlook includes some decoupling and adjustment of supply chainsstoked further by COVID, but building on existing trends, motivated by cost cutting and diversificationbut no drastic decoupling given that Chinas manufacturing remains fundamentally competitive in many sectors and its market is still a draw for foreign companies. Harder external conditions have prompted China to adjust its longterm development strategy. By deciding to follow a dual circulation development pattern, China is basically stressing on technological selfreliance in response to the US restrictions on access to its technologies. In the coming years, therefore, the government is expected to spend more on RD and increase investment in hightech sectors, notably semiconductors and highend manufacturing. The views dont necessarily reflect those of China Daily. If you have a specific expertise and would like to contribute to China Daily, please contact us at opinionchinadaily.com.cn, and commentchinadaily.com.cn.