Wall Street rises as investors await stimulus deal
2020-12-17 04:30
PhotoAgencies    Dec   Wall Street rose on Wednesday, with the Nasdaq hitting a record high as investors awaited a potential fiscal economic stimulus package and after the Federal Reserve repeated a pledge to keep its benchmark interest rate near zero. The SP  was on track to close at its highest level ever after the Fed promised to keep funneling cash into financial markets to fight the recession, even as policymakers outlook for next year improved following initial rollout of a coronavirus vaccine. I dont think theres anything in there that changes their accommodative stance. ... The markets reaction is relatively subdued, said Randy Frederick, vice president of trading and derivatives for Charles Schwab. Frederick said investors are more focused on fiscal stimulus than the Fed statement following its twoday meeting. The expectations for stimulus are built in, so if we dont get one that would be a much more substantially negative reaction that if we get one, which would be very modestly positive, he said. Gains in tech stocks, many of which have benefited from changes in consumer habits because of the pandemic, pushed the Nasdaq to a record high. Microsoft surged almost . Investor sentiment has oscillated in recent sessions between optimism about the early distribution of a COVID vaccine and worries about record infection rates in the United States. Despite the pandemic, the SP  has climbed over  in . US congressional negotiators were closing in on a  billion COVID aid bill that will include  to  stimulus checks and extended unemployment benefits, and Congress could start voting within  hours, lawmakers and aides said. Data showed US retail sales fell . last month from October, as new coronavirus infections and decreasing household income weighed on spending. The SP  airlines index dropped . after JPMorgan issued multiple downgrades in the sector, citing valuations. Southwest Airlines Co fell over . after flagging a higher cash burn in the fourth quarter, as well as increased trip cancellations in December. Alphabet dipped . after Texas Attorney General Ken Paxton said he will file a multistate lawsuit against the parent company of Google. The Dow Jones Industrial Average was down . at ,. points, while the SP  gained . to ,.. The Nasdaq Composite added . to ,.. Twitter Inc added  after JPMorgan upgraded the stock to overweight, saying it expects the social media company to stage a significant rebound in online advertising following a pandemicfueled decline. Marijuana producers Aphria Inc and rival Tilray Inc gained  and , respectively, after the two companies agreed to combine their operations and create the largest cannabis producer by sales. Declining issues outnumbered advancing ones on the NYSE by a .to ratio on Nasdaq, a .to ratio favored advancers. The SP  posted  new week highs and no new lows the Nasdaq Composite recorded  new highs and  new lows. Reuters