Officials keep watch for vaccine reactions
2020-12-15 12:28
Californias Governor Gavin Newsom looks on as ICU nurse Helen Cordova receives the PfizerBioNTech COVID vaccine at Kaiser Permanente Los Angeles Medical Center in Los Angeles, California, US on Dec , . PhotoAgencies    As Americans received the first shots of the Pfizer COVID vaccine Monday, health officials were on the alert for any adverse reactions. On Monday morning, the first known inoculation since the vaccine was authorized by the Food and Drug Administration FDA late last week, was given to Sandra Lindsay, a nurse and the director of patient services in the intensive care unit at Long Island Jewish Medical Center in Queens, a borough of New York City. Lindsay has treated patients throughout the pandemic. As of Monday afternoon, there were , deaths from COVID in the US and  million confirmed cases of the virus, according to data from John Hopkins University. Most reactions to the vaccine will be mild and will resolve within one to two days of onset, David Kuhar, a specialist on the Healthcare Infection Control Team of the Center for Disease Control and Prevention CDC said Monday during a webinar. CDC officials said during a webinar with physicians on Saturday that patients with a history of severe reaction should take precautions as there are two documented cases of anaphylaxis in British healthcare workers who received the PfizerBioNTech vaccine. Anaphylaxis is a very rare overreaction by the bodys immune system. The UKs National Health Service describes it as a severe and potentially lifethreatening allergic reaction. Symptoms can be a skin rash, nausea, vomiting, difficulty breathing and shock. Adverse reaction is commonly seen with vaccination. Thats just your immune system being vigorous and working for you, Dr Paul Offit, a pediatrician and vaccine expert at Childrens Hospital of Philadelphia and member of the FDA advisory panel that endorsed the vaccine on Thursday. In many ways, its a good thing. But you cant have people surprised by this because it is actually a fairly common problem, he told National Public Radio on Dec . Dr Anthony Fauci, director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, said Saturday, I dont think that the allergic reactions are even close to being a showstopper for the Pfizer vaccine. He said officials will continue to monitor the safety of the vaccines long after they have received emergency authorization. Observation of safety does not end when you start administering vaccines to the general public, he said. Immunologist Dr Stanley Perlman of the University of Iowa, who also was a member of the advisory panel that voted to recommend the PfizerBioNTech vaccine, said he is concerned about potential side effects that may not yet have been identified. I worry about something coming up that we dont know anything about. The unknown, he told The Washington Post. Our first vaccine safety system is strong and robust, Tom Shimabukuro, the team leader of CDCs Vaccine Safety Team, told clinicians in the Monday webinar. No vaccine is  percent effective, states CDCreleased clinical guidance on Saturday, continuing, given the current situation and limited information on how well the vaccine works in the general population how much it may reduce disease or transmission, CDC suggests that people who have received the vaccine should continue following current guidance to wear masks and keep social distance. According to recent Pew research, only about  percent of adults say they would get a vaccine. The Advertising Council, which has developed important public messages over the years, will be putting out a national campaign to encourage people to be vaccinated. Michelle Hillman, campaign development officer at the council, said the campaign wont roll out until early next year when the vaccine is more widely available. The messenger in this case is going to be even more important in some ways than the actual message itself, Hillman told a Denver affiliate of ABC News, adding that many different spokespeople from doctors and pharmacists to athletes and musicians will be used. There will also be variations of the vaccine campaign to address specific groups, like communities of color, which have been more severely affected by the virus and tend to have more vaccine hesitancy, he said.