Mayor urges UK PM to close Londons secondary schools, colleges before Christmas
2020-12-15 09:40
People walk along Regent Street, amid the coronavirus disease COVID outbreak, in London, Britain, Dec , . PhotoAgencies    LONDON  London Mayor Sadiq Khan has called on the British government to consider shutting all secondary schools and colleges in London early before Christmas, following a surge of new COVID cases in the capital city of Britain. In a letter to British Prime Minister Boris Johnson, Khan said lessons should move on line now and schools should reopen later in January. He said the increasing cases in London deeply concerning and there has been significant outbreaks among  to yearolds. The British government must consider asking schools and colleges to close early and reopen later in January, with extra resource provided to support online learning, he said in the letter. Face coverings should also be made mandatory in busy outdoor public spaces, given the numbers on our high streets in the run up to Christmas, he added. The London borough of Greenwich has become the first in England to ask all schools to move learning online from Tuesday amid rising COVID cases, the BBC reported. From Dec  to Dec , , , people had tested positive in London, a rate of  cases per , population, compared with , cases and a rate of  cases per , for the previous week, according to the latest official figures. To bring life back to normal, countries including Britain, China, Germany, Russia, and the United States are racing against time to find a vaccine. Meanwhile, the Downing Street said Monday that it expects all schools and colleges in England to remain open until the end of term. A British prime ministers official spokesman said that not being in school has a detrimental impact on learning and other areas of pupils development. He added that regional school commissioner teams are working closely with local authorities to help them to keep schools open and keep pupils and staff safe. Also on Monday, British Health Secretary Matt Hancock said London will move into Tier Three, the highest level of coronavirus restrictions, from midnight on Wednesday. England is currently under a new threetier system of coronavirus restrictions. The system, which put about  percent of England into the highest Tier Two and Three, is due to be reviewed on Dec . In Tier Three areas, all pubs, bars and restaurants must close except for delivery, takeaway and drivethrough. Hotels and indoor entertainment venues must also close in these areas.