US starts vaccine distribution
2020-12-14 11:34
A mock vial of the Pfizer vaccine for the coronavirus disease COVID is shown during a staff vaccine training session at UW Health in Madison, Wisconsin, US, on Dec , . PhotoAgencies    The biggest logistical effort in the history of the United States is underway and beginning Monday it will lead to the countrys biggest vaccination campaign as Pfizers COVID vaccine takes on the virus that has killed more than ,. Vaccinations will begin Monday, Dr Nancy Messonnier, director of the National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention CDC, said during a meeting Saturday. With a second vaccine from Moderna expected to follow shortly, as many as  million doses could be delivered by the end of the year  enough to vaccinate the CDCs first priority groups  healthcare workers at high risk of exposure to the virus and residents of nursing homes and other longtermcare facilities. As hospitals prepared to receive the vaccine, the US on Saturday reported its  millionth coronavirus case, according to federal officials. The country reported its highest daily cases, more than ,, on Friday, according to a Reuters tally. In the latest sevenday average, the United States is reporting , deaths per day, the highest sevenday average since the pandemic started. US hospitalizations for COVID were , by the end of Friday, the highest so far. General Gustave Perna, the chief operating officer of Operation Warp Speed, the federal effort to bring a vaccine to market, said Saturday at a news conference that nearly  million doses of the vaccine, manufactured by Pfizer and BioNTech, are being sent by plane and guarded truck to  sites on Monday,  on Tuesday and  on Wednesday. Early Sunday morning, boxes packed at Pfizers plant in Kalamazoo, Michigan, were being shipped to UPS and FedEx distribution hubs, where they were to be sent to the  locations across the country. No vaccine doses were positioned in advance of the Food and Drug Administration approving the vaccine on Friday night, officials said. Both UPS and FedEx have said that doses will arrive at their destinations a day after leaving the Pfizer facilities. Pfizers plant in Michigan will attach special Bluetooth and radioenabled tracking tags to each shipment. This is a historic day, said Richard W. Smith, who oversees operations in the Americas for FedEx Express. Both companies said the shipments would be closely tracked and monitored and would be given priority over other packages. To ship its vaccine, Pfizer designed specialized containers packed with enough dry ice to keep a minimum of  doses cool for up to  days. Each comes with a tracking device. UPS and FedEx will split distribution of the vaccine throughout the country. After the initial shipments arrive, all Pfizer dosing sites will receive another shipment from UPS of  pounds of extra dry ice to keep the vaccines at a subzero temperature, officials said. FDA officials on Saturday said vaccination sites will have medical personnel on hand to deal with side effects such as severe allergic reactions. The officials made the comments after two people in the UK experienced reactions after getting the vaccine. That prompted the countrys health authorities to warn that people with a history of severe allergic reactions to vaccines shouldnt get the COVID shot. Both people already had serious allergic histories. The vaccine from Pfizer was authorized in England a week ago. New York Governor Andrew Cuomo, who with several other governors vowed to review the vaccine before allowing it in their states, announced late Friday that state officials have approved the drug. The vaccine, that is the weapon that ends the war, Cuomo said in a press briefing Saturday. Agencies contributed to this story.