Vaccines inject hope for normal World Cup in Qatar
2020-12-14 09:45
FILE PHOTO The tournaments official logo for the  Qatar World Cup is seen on the Doha Tower, in Doha, Qatar, September , .PhotoAgencies    Qatar is now planning for a normal World Cup in  after the rapid progress in producing vaccines for the coronavirus, the tournament CEO told Associated Press before the European qualifying draw. Early in the pandemic that forced the cancelation of the European Championship and Olympics this year, Qatar was concerned about the longterm impact of COVID on the first World Cup to be staged in the Middle East. Across the world, sports have resumed in front of limited or no crowds, but the vaccines have provided hope that crowds can return in large numbers next year. The introduction of the vaccine and the rollout of the vaccine, its definitely good news for everybody, World Cup chief executive Nasser AlKhater said. Everybodys looking forward to going back to some sort of normalcy in life and especially in sports as well. Were very hopeful and very looking forward that, by , hopefully things will really be back to complete normal and looking forward to hosting the fans and having a normal and successful World Cup. European nations on Monday will discover their path to securing one of  spots in the tournament when the qualifying draw is staged at FIFA HQ in Zurich. The pandemic has prevented the event being staged in the host nation as would usually happen before a World Cup. In the postCOVID pandemic era, we hope that sports will go back to normal as quickly as possible, AlKhater said. The tournament isnt just going to a new region, but being played at the end of  rather than the usual JuneJuly slot, due to the fierce summer heat in the Gulf nation. When the announcement was made for the World Cup to be played in November and December, obviously at that time there was a lot of feedback about the disruption to the different calendars of the leagues, AlKhater said. One thing we learned from the pandemic is that many leagues were able to adapt. And the months without any soccer during the pandemic will put into a new perspective the necessary break in the European seasons in  to accommodate the World Cup. The later tournament gives more breathing space for qualifying to be completed rather than the tournament starting in about  months. It also should provide a break eventually for players in the summer of  after enduring a long stretch of games from around June this year through rescheduled events, including the Euros, and next season. There was always that advantage that the World Cup is taking place midseason, so players are going to be fresh and it would translate into much better football on the field of play, AlKhater said. We hope that remains the same that they will have a break in the summer of . Last week marked  years since Qatar won the right to host the World Cup in a contentious FIFA vote that sparked corruption investigations into the entire bidding process. Evidence was not found by FIFA to warrant stripping Qatar of the hosting rights. The natural gasrich emirate has spent tens of billions of dollars to build hotels, a new transport system and lavish stadiums to cope with staging one of the biggest sporting events. Qatar used the seventeam Club World Cup in December won by Liverpoolto test infrastructure. This years edition, featuring Bayern Munich as European champion, has been postponed until February due to the pandemic and its unlikely to have an influx of supporters like last year. AP