France sees slowdown in new COVID cases, rise in hospitalization
2020-12-14 09:37
A woman walks past a costume rental store, with Santa Claus outfits outside, on December ,  in Paris as France is on a second lockdown in a bid to contain the spread of COVID pandemic caused by the novel coronavirus. PhotoAgencies    PARIS  Another , people in France tested positive for COVID in a hour span, the lowest daily tally this week, while more patients were admitted to hospital, ending a weeklong decline in coronavirusrelated hospitalization, official data showed on Sunday. The number of daily new infections fell by , compared to Saturday. Frances cumulative number of confirmed COVID cases now stands at nearly . million. Another  people died from the disease in the  hours, bringing the total fatalities in France to , since the beginning of the pandemic, official data showed. After reporting a downtrend since midNovember, the number of COVID patients in hospital increased by  to ,, including , serious cases that need life support, a singleday rise of . On Tuesday Dec , France is expected to enter the second phase of easing lockdown rules. A curfew from  pm to  am will replace the countrywide confinement introduced in late October. Cinemas, theaters and museums  initially scheduled to reopen on Dec   will wait three more weeks to be able to receive the public, as the number of COVID daily infections is not falling as fast as the government had expected, French Prime Minister Jean Castex had announced on Thursday. Castex admitted that the target of , new cases of infection per day, set by President Emmanuel Macron to further relax the lockdown, would be out of reach, forcing authorities to maintain some restrictions. We will move to a new stage on Tuesday but the rules will be stricter than what we had initially envisaged, he told a press conference on Thursday. As the world is struggling to contain the pandemic, countries including France, China, Russia, the United Kingdom and the United States are racing to find a vaccine. According to the website of the World Health Organization, as of Dec , there were  COVID candidate vaccines being developed worldwide, and  of them were in clinical trials.