US FDA issues emergency use authorization for first COVID vaccine
2020-12-12 14:08
In this file photo illustration taken on Nov , , shows a syringe and a bottle reading COVID Vaccine next to the Pfizer company logo. PhotoAgencies    WASHINGTON  The US Food and Drug Administration FDA Friday issued authorization for emergency use of the first COVID vaccine in the United States. The first Emergency Use Authorization EUA was issued to the COVID vaccine of American drugmaker Pfizer in partnership with German company BioNTech, allowing the vaccine to be distributed in the United States. The FDA has determined that PfizerBioNTech COVID vaccine has met the statutory criteria for issuance of an EUA. The totality of the available data provides clear evidence that PfizerBioNTech COVID vaccine may be effective in preventing COVID, said the FDA in a statement. The data also show that the known and potential benefits outweigh the known and potential risks, supporting the vaccines use in millions of people  years of age and older, said the FDA. The FDAs authorization for emergency use of the first COVID vaccine is a significant milestone in battling this devastating pandemic that has affected so many families in the United States and around the world, said FDA Commissioner Stephen Hahn. Todays action follows an open and transparent review process that included input from independent scientific and public health experts and a thorough evaluation by the agencys career scientists to ensure this vaccine met FDAs rigorous, scientific standards for safety, effectiveness, and manufacturing quality needed to support emergency use authorization, he said in a statement. The PfizerBioNTech vaccine contains a small piece of the SARSCoV viruss mRNA that instructs cells in the body to make the viruss distinctive spike protein. When a person receives this vaccine, their body produces copies of the spike protein, which does not cause disease, but triggers the immune system to learn to react defensively, producing an immune response against SARSCoV. The vaccine is administered as a series of two doses, three weeks apart. Global COVID cases surpassed  million on Friday, according to the Center for Systems Science and Engineering at Johns Hopkins University. The United States reported the most cases and deaths around the world as of  pm local time  GMT, numbering ,, and ,, respectively.