Lets leverage technology to defeat COVID pandemic
2020-12-10 10:47
A view of the Victoria Harbor of Hong Kong. PhotoVCG    The Chief Executives Policy Address for  finally went ahead on Nov  after its abrupt postponement in midOctober. The reason for Carrie Lam Cheng Yuetngors sudden trip to Beijing was obviously her hope of securing support from the Central Government before finalizing her speech. One of the biggest takeaways from Lams address  at least for Hong Kongs more immediate future  was Beijings commitment to a reserve of COVID vaccinations for Hongkongers, more communitywide testing initiatives, and a oneoff subsidy program to benefit those who contract the virus. Along with the pledge of the Central Governments support to Hong Kongs various economic ventures, they have stated that Hong Kong will be entitled to a reserve of vaccines that are developed or produced in the mainland. Further to that, a second edition of the Universal Community Testing Program UCTP  which ran for a fortnight in September this year  will take the form of a temporary treatment facility housed at the AsiaWorldExpo. Lam also expressed hope that there was scope for expanding the community testing scheme on a considerably larger scale, so that zero infection status can finally be achieved in Hong Kong. Finally, there are ongoing questions  and criticisms, naturally  over the oneoff subsidy of HK,  for Hong Kong residents who receive a positive COVID test result. While the criteria for being in receipt of said handout remains unclear, the face of the scheme, Secretary for Labour and Welfare Law Chikwong, asserted that the scheme will alleviate the financial burdens of those who are most vulnerable at this time. While the intentions of the subsidy may be well meaning, there are some glaring ambiguities that need to be addressed. One of the major concerns is that the subsidy program is not, at present, meanstested and requires nothing more than a positive COVID test result. In other words, there is scope for people to seek to deliberately contract the virus in order to benefit from the handout. Law defended the absence of means testing by reasoning that it would expedite the process and put money into the pockets of the needy sooner rather than later, and without the burden of cumbersome paperwork and bureaucracy. The COVID handout by the Hong Kong government is not a unique concept, as the Victoria State Government of Australia and the UK government are providing similar schemes. However, documentation such as proof of employment and proof of isolation eg, a doctors note are required, alongside other criteria. Both of these schemes are safety nets i.e., handups rather than handouts for those who contract the virus and can prove that they will lose income as a result of contracting the virus and having to selfisolate. Reading between the lines, it is apparent that these schemes are intended to cushion the fall of those who are selfemployed and work in frontline positions. And in Hong Kong terms, taxi drivers come to mind as they are famously known to live from faretofare and pay significant overheads such as the rental price of their taxis. If this scheme is to be carried out in the way its intended, then it is abundantly clear that guidelines and criteria need to be established clearly and early. Firstly, each and every claim made must be meanstested and backed by sufficient evidence from each candidate. Administrative assistance for the required paperwork can be provided virtually e.g., using chatbot technologies or via telephone, so as to eliminate the need for facetoface contact. If businesses are leveraging their powers of social commerce to retain their customers confidence, then the government is missing a trick if they neglect to seize upon an obvious opportunity to regain the confidence of the very people they swore to serve. The validity of implementing yet another communitywide testing scheme must be questioned, because if it is anything like the one in September, then it is doomed to fail. But if we can leverage technology into community testing schemes, perhaps we can turn the tide, even just a little bit. The new testandtrace mobile application LeaveHomeSafe has been developed by the Hong Kong government with the intention of allowing more efficient identification of chains of infection around the city. Users can simply open the app to scan the QR code of participating venues to mark their visit the same can be done in taxis. However, there are some glaringly obvious issues with the scheme. For one thing, not all venues are required to carry the LeaveHomeSafe QR code, and visitors are not lawfully required to checkin at participating venues. With that in mind, in the event that an outbreak is identified at a particular venue, how can we be sure that each and every person who visited said venue has been contacted? This means that asymptomatic carriers remain unidentified within the population. If we wield technologies such as LeaveHomeSafe properly, then we can use it to reach more of the community and get them tested. What Hongkongers need, and perhaps what the world needs, is a purpose and to know that they are making a difference, no matter how small. Testing saves lives we need to drive this message home and give Hongkongers a purpose. We need social cohesion and a sense of community now more than ever. So I am urging the Hong Kong government to appeal to that community spirit within every person and instill a sense of purpose. We are all in the same boat and weathering the same storm, so it is only as a united front that we can ride out the storm together. We are all in this together so lets act like it! The author is a multimedia columnist who comes from an international background. She covers a wide range of social issues and topics that concern womens empowerment and gender equality. The views do not necessarily reflect those of China Daily.