Charities warn of global richpoor divide over jab
2020-12-10 09:37
Syrian refugee student takes part in a washing hands activity as part of an awareness campaign about coronavirus initiated by OXFAM and UNICEF at Al Zaatari refugee camp in the Jordanian city of Mafraq, near the border with Syria, March , . PhotoAgencies    An umbrella group of major international charities, such as Oxfam, has warned the COVID vaccine initiative risks increasing the divide between rich and poor nations. According to the Peoples Vaccine Alliance, developing countries have been left behind in the stampede for treatment, while rich countries have bought three times the amount needed for their populations. More than half of orders for the most promising vaccines have come from countries with  percent of the worlds population. No one should be blocked from getting a lifesaving vaccine because of the country they live in or the amount of money in their pocket, said Oxfams health policy manager Anna Marriott. But unless something changes dramatically, billions of people around the world will not receive a safe and effective vaccine for COVID for years to come. The Alliance has called on pharma companies to share intellectual property and technology with the World Health Organization, or WHO, for the greatest benefit of humanity. On Tuesday, the United Kingdom became the first country to roll out the vaccine developed by German company Pfizer and BioNTech. Almost all available doses of this vaccine, and every one from the United Statesbased Moderna company, have been bought up by richer nations, and the Alliance said in the case of Canada, if all the leading vaccine candidates were successful, it has bought enough to treat its population fivetimes over. The Alliance identified the  countries it says are most at risk of being shut out of the process altogether, where it is reported that only one in  people could end up being vaccinated, and five of themUkraine, Kenya, Pakistan, Myanmar and Nigeriahave, between them, reported . million cases of novel coronavirus. In April, an organization called COVAX was launched by the WHO, European Commission and France, bringing together political and industry leaders and philanthropists to ensure fair and global access to vaccines as they become available. So far,  million doses have been secured for the  countries that have signed up. Meanwhile, a report by the Joseph Rowntree Foundation has found that the aftereffects of the pandemic in the UK are likely to double rates of destitution, with  million families and  million children facing struggles to feed themselves properly and stay warm. The Foundation warned of increasing, intensifying levels of extreme poverty, with areas in the Northeast and Northwest of England, and regions of inner London, most severely affected. Right now, our social security system is not doing enough to protect people from destitution, said the foundation director Helen Barnard. It is appalling that so many people are going through this distressing and degrading experience, and we should not tolerate it.