Need to battle disinformation clouding Chinas vaccine development efforts
2020-12-09 10:27
A display shows packages of vaccine candidate for SARSCoV by Sinovac Biotech in Beijing on Sept , . PhotoAgencies    Despite the good news about the arrival of the COVID vaccine, random politicization and slandering vaccine development have cast a cloud over its use. This is in conflict with the original intention of developing the jab. Amid all the disinformation, vaccine diplomacy is the term certain Western critics often like to use to define Chinas motives behind pushing the development of a vaccine. In theory, it is in line with their bias against China. In practice, it is easy for them to piece together speculation and seek attention through sensational stories. China, one of the first few countries that started working toward the development of a vaccine, does not show much interest in this kind of boring game because spreading political influence in other countries has never been Chinas purpose to develop the jab. When fighting an intense battle, those who concentrate on finding the key to defeat the enemy will win, not those who think about how big a prize they will receive after the war. The key to winning the COVID war is a safe and effective vaccine that is available to all and China knows that. Since the outbreak of COVID, the Chinese government has adopted five technological approaches to developing COVID vaccines  inactivated vaccines, recombinant protein vaccines, adenovirus vector vaccines, vaccines using attenuated influenza viruses as vectors, and nucleic acid vaccines. By Dec. , the country had five COVID vaccines entering phaseIII clinical trials. To provide the world with a safe, effective and highquality public good, Chinas vaccine developers adhere to scientific and rigorous approach and ensure they meet relevant laws and regulations and international standards. On Monday, . million doses of the vaccine by Sinovac Biotech, a Chinese vaccine developer, arrived in Indonesia and would be used in early . On the same day, the company announced that it is planning to complete a new facility to double its annual vaccine production capacity to  million doses by the end of this year, while also securing a  million U.S. dollar investment in a boost to its COVID vaccine development efforts. Such a program, along with efforts by other companies, marks a step closer to rolling out and sharing the vaccine as pledged by China. The country aims to ensure vaccine accessibility, especially in developing countries. China, which opposes politicization of vaccine development, will not turn the jab into a geopolitical weapon or diplomatic tool. As China walks the talk of vaccine commitment to the world, it mirrors a mature understanding of the importance of vaccines, the belief in science, the confidence and respect for those who work on the frontlines of vaccine research and development, and a strong sense of mission of a responsible major country. Amid the global pandemic, it is impossible to stand alone. The Chinese government and companies have been part of international cooperation on vaccines through bilateral and multilateral channels. As China does not have largescale samples for clinical trials, its phaseIII trials need to be carried out overseas, an example of the countrys vaccine development pooling global strengths. The country is also in close communication and cooperation with international organizations such as the World Health Organization. It also joined COVAX in October to promote fair distribution of vaccines. As issues such as efficacy, transportation, cryopreservation and discussion on the side effects have already complicated vaccine development, rational discourse will help people understand the vaccine and benefit from its application and upgrade. Slandering or conjecture will not help no matter which way you look at it. They only humiliate people who spend days and nights to develop the jab, and make it hard for vulnerable groups to get the protection.