Countries gear up to secure virus vaccines
2020-12-08 09:21
A display shows packages of vaccine candidate for SARSCoV by Sinovac Biotech in Beijing on Sept , . PhotoAgencies    Fresh waves of COVID infections with onset of winter prompt swift action for doses Coronavirus infections have surged again across the world amid the onset of winter, with many countries strategizing to secure vaccines to protect their populations. More than . million people have been reported to be infected by COVID globally and more than . million people have died, according to a Reuters tally. US President Donald Trumps lawyer Rudy Giuliani also tested positive for COVID, the latest in a long string of people close to the White House. Giuliani, , was admitted to the Medstar Georgetown University Hospital in Washington on Sunday, according to US media. The White House has been criticized for shunning safety guidelines, with Trump himself testing positive for COVID in October. Californias Governor Gavin Newsom has announced that more than half of the US states  million people are subject to a stayathome order and many businesses will be closed. A Reuters tally showed that more than , people in the US have died from COVID. For the past two weeks, the US has regularly seen more than , deaths a day, similar to the early days of the pandemic. The surge could be partly due to last weeks Thanksgiving holiday, when millions of US residents traveled around the country, BBC reported. US Presidentelect Joe Biden, who is expected to be sworn in on Jan , plans to nominate Californias Attorney General Xavier Becerra as secretary of health and human services and Rochelle Walensky, chief of infectious diseases at Massachusetts General Hospital, to run the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Reuters reported. In India, data from its federal health ministry showed on Monday that , new coronavirus cases were reported in the last  hours. The South Asian countrys cumulative cases now total . million, the secondhighest tally in the world after the US, according to Reuters. Japans Chief Cabinet Secretary Katsunobu Kato said on Monday that the government will send doctors and nurses from the countrys de facto army, the SelfDefense Forces, to the northern and western prefectures of Hokkaido and Osaka where the coronavirus is rapidly spreading, according to Japans news agency Jiji Press. Japans public broadcaster NHK reported that the city of Asahikawa in Hokkaido has seen infection clusters at local hospitals. South Koreas President Moon Jaein on Monday ordered testing for the virus to be expanded by mobilizing the military and more people from the public service, as the country continued to report tripledigit daily new cases, Reuters reported. Countries are strategizing to secure shots to protect their populations against COVID, with Britain and Russia beginning COVID vaccinations this week. The Serum Institute of India has sought emergency use authorization from its drug regulator for AstraZenecas COVID vaccine on Sunday, according to Indian media reports, citing the Press Trust of India. India is the largest buyer of COVID vaccines in the world with . billion doses, with  million doses of the Oxford UniversityAstraZeneca vaccine candidate,  billion from US company Novavax and  million doses of the Sputnik V candidate from Russias Gamaleya Research Institute, according to the USbased Duke University Global Health Innovation Center. The South Asian country is followed by the European Union, which has confirmed . billion doses. The US, the worst affected country so far, has managed to purchase just over a billion doses, according to Duke Universitys Launch and Scale Speedometer analysis. Shahid Jameel, director of the Trivedi School of Biosciences of Ashoka University, said . billion doses would cover  million people or  percent of Indias population, The Chennai Hindu reported. This, the virologist said, should be enough to develop herd immunity, a form of indirect protection from infectious disease that occurs when a sufficient percentage of a population has become immune to an infection. Indonesian President Joko Widodo announced on Sunday that the country has received . million doses from Chinas Sinovac Biotech and is working to secure another . million doses by early January, according to Bloomberg. Highincome countries currently hold a confirmed . billion doses, upper middleincome countries hold  million doses, and lower middleincome countries hold more than . billion doses, according to Duke University analysis. The World Health Organization hopes to have half a billion vaccine doses through the COVAX facility in the first quarter of . COVAX is a global initiative led by the WHO, the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations and international vaccine alliance organization Gavi that aims to bring governments and vaccine manufacturers together to ensure all countries have access to COVID vaccines once they become available.