Allocate COVID vaccines behind the veil of ignorance
2020-12-08 09:13
In political philosopher John Rawlss famous Theory of Justice, he begins his argument with a thought experiment the veil of ignorance. It asks a hard question if we all sit behind the veil, having no idea of our social status, what kind of social principle or structure would we select to ensure justice in society? Such an experiment has its limitation, but the question itself is ever more relevant today given what the world is today that it is suffering a onceinageneration pandemic and the longwaited vaccines are ready to be rolled out. Usually, it takes more than a decade from researching a vaccine until it finally goes to the market. But the urgent need for a solution to the pandemic has created a miracle. Russia has already begun mass vaccinations of its Sputnik V vaccine Britain is to follow soon with its Pfizer vaccine. On Monday, Indonesia has received its first batch of COVID vaccine from Chinas Sinovc Biotech. Given COVID cases have passed  million with . million deaths, the demand for vaccines is huge. In fact, some wealthy countries have already locked a large chunk of vaccine supplies by signing contracts with pharmaceutical factories or research labs. According to reports from the Associated Press, the populations of those countries accounts for  percent of world populations, but they have already bought half of the vaccines on the market. This means the competition for vaccines would be fierce. Then it goes back to the question of fairness. If we are not sure which country we would be born in, would we still agree to the market principle applied to COVID vaccines, where the richer get protection while the poor can only wait? For now, inequality seems to be the case. Given that vaccine, RD is extremely investment and technologyintensive. Many countries would not even have the resources to join the race meanwhile, rich countries are already signing countries with various research labs to diversity their bets, even many of them were still in the first stage of a clinical trial. When those vaccines are successful enough to get to the market, rich countries will end up having more vaccines than they need. In an interview with NPR, Andrew Taylor, Assistant Director at the Duke Global Health Innovation Center, estimated that the US would probably have more than twice enough to vaccinate their population while Canada will have five times over for their population. Some people in poor countries will likely not be immunized until . This is far more than a moral issue but an urgent realistic problem. If poor countries get left out as vaccines being rolled out, the holy grail answer to the current pandemic will simply not be good enough. In a modeling study done by Northeastern University, they have compared two vaccination allocation strategies the cooperative one, where vaccines are distributed according to countries population, and the uncooperative one, where most of the vaccines are hoarded by highincome countries. Researchers find that the cooperative one would avert more than  percent of COVID deaths than the cooperative one. Thats a lot of lives saved. Efforts are being made, but its simply not enough. The most global one is COVAX launched by the WHO to ensure the equality of vaccine allocation. It aims to provide  billion vaccines to the world, half of which will be used in lowincome countries. According to Capital Economics, subSahara countries will all be dependent on COVAX to get their vaccines. To achieve this, highincome countries will have to preorder vaccines through COVAX for the organization to buy them from the pharmaceutical factory. But so far, there is still a  billion gap to reach the target. The richest country, America, even refused to join the program. EU is also skeptical about the supply capacity of COVAX and will order their vaccine independently. In October, China announced that it will also join the program, giving confidence to the vaccine alliance. Ayelet Berman, Senior Research Fellow at the National University of Singapore, said that the move was not only a symbolic demonstration of global solidarity but also means more investment and logistics convenience given Chinas strength. But it always takes more than one to tangle. In this case, it takes the whole world. Its not a hard decision to include poor countries in an affordable and equal vaccine allocation program it also should not be a hard choice to make more efforts in achieving the target.