China calls for international solidarity to face COVID
2020-12-05 07:40
State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi, the special representative of President Xi Jinping, delivers a video speech on Thursday to a special session of the United Nations General Assembly in response to the COVID pandemic. PhotoXinhua    To defeat COVID and keep the global economy afloat, China called upon countries around the world to focus on the issue at hand, strengthen solidarity and expand consensus to reinforce cooperation, according to President Xi Jinpings special representative Wang Yi. Wang, whos also a state councilor and the foreign minister, made the comments on Thursday when delivering a video speech at a twoday special session of the United Nations General Assembly in response to the COVID pandemic. The event gathered nearly  world leaders and over  government ministers. Wang expressed Beijings support for the UNs convening of the session. The year  is truly extraordinary in human history, he said.What lies ahead is a tenuous and uphill battle, as the world faces a second wave of novel coronavirus infections. Under Xis leadership, China has consistently put people and their lives above all else in its COVID response, Wang said. He pointed out that the country has established a mechanism to coordinate mediumand longterm efforts to advance epidemic control, and economic and social development. We have also launched the largestever global humanitarian campaign in the history of the Peoples Republic of China, engaged in the most intensive virtual exchanges and stepped up to our responsibility as the largest supplier of antiepidemic materials, Wang said. China will continue to provide support and assistance to countries in need, as the country is speeding up the phase clinical trials of its vaccines, Wang said. Once developed and deployed, we will make them global public goods and provide them to other developing countries as our contribution to building a community of health for all, he added. In his speech, Wang delivered a fivepoint proposal to the global community. It calls for the world to act decisively to contain the spread of the virus to enhance solidarity and cooperation to coordinate COVID control, and economic and social development to step up support for developing countries and to foster an enabling international environment for the fight against COVID. It is important to promote a collective response around the world to curb the virus spread across borders. And major countries must play an exemplary role in promoting collaboration, Wang said. Vaccinesa powerful weapon to defeat the virusshould be a global public good and accessible and affordable for developing countries, he said. Countries should reopen their economies while keeping response measures in place. And they should make good use of the new business forms and models while strengthening international coordination on macroeconomic policies to keep global industrial and supply chains stable, he said.