Antivaccine groups target COVID
2020-12-03 12:34
Small bottles labelled with Vaccine stickers seen near a medical syringe in front of displayed Coronavirus COVID words, April , . PhotoAgencies    Antivaccine campaigners in the United States have come out in force against the three coronavirus vaccines that have proven effective in trials, amid a worsening pandemic that has killed more than , Americans and infected more than , million. On Wednesday, the US also surpassed , new infections and more than , COVID patients hospitalized, the first time either daily level has been reached. The opposition to the vaccines comes as pharmaceutical companies PfizerBioNTech, Moderna, and AstraZenecaOxford are seeking emergency approval from the US Food and Drug Administration FDA. On Wednesday, the UK approved Pfizer Incs COVID vaccine, becoming the first Western country to approve widespread use of a vaccine. The mistrust of vaccines and, more specifically the coronavirus vaccines, is international. Since March, mass protests have taken place in  countries including Germany, the UK, Brazil and in several US states. Socalled antivaxxers  those who oppose vaccines  are using Facebook and other social media sites, according to the Centre for Countering Digital Hate CCDH, a Londonbased nonprofit that aims to disrupt identitybased hate and counter its growing influence in politics. It found that  million people follow antivaccine groups on Facebook, and  million people subscribe to similar YouTube accounts. CCDH alleges that social media firms are reluctant to silence antivaccine accounts as they can generate  billion in annual revenue. In May, a nowdeleted YouTube video that claimed that vaccines would kill millions got more than  million views. Soon after PfizerBioNTech announced in November that its vaccine had proved  percent effective, Bill Gates, the Microsoft founder, began trending on Twitter. Antivaccine groups said he wants to insert a chip into COVID vaccines so he can track peoples movements via G cellular networks. US researcher Dr Judy Mikovits, who was behind a widely circulated antivaccine video called Plandemic, also blamed the coronavirus outbreak on Gates, big pharmaceutical companies and the World Health Organization WHO. Mikovits has claimed that Dr Anthony Fauci, director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, was responsible for the deaths of millions from AIDS, and the video claims she was part of a team that discovered HIV and revolutionized HIV treatment. The antivaccine movement also is rebranding its efforts with an emphasis on personal freedom and suspicion of government to exploit American reaction to the pandemic, said Dorit Reiss, a University of California Hastings law professor who specializes in policy issues related to vaccines. More people are vulnerable, upset and distrustful, said Reiss, and the antivaccine movement knows exactly what to say. Jonathan M. Berman, a scientist and assistant professor in the basic sciences department at the New York Institute of College of Osteopathic Medicine at Arkansas State University, wrote a book called Antivaxxers, How to Challenge a Misinformed Movement. He believes that there are several reasons why wild conspiracy theories about COVID vaccines are springing up online and elsewhere. The pandemic has created an environment where people have very little information about the vaccines and have lost a lot of control of their lives. Developing conspiracy theories helps people to regain a sense of control of their environment, he told China Daily. They feel that they can find information that no one else has and can use that to make a decision. People are responding to some basic fears that almost everyone shares to a degree, Berman said. People fear governments and corporations making decisions about their health. They fear putting things they view as unnatural into their bodies. They fear living in a complex world that does not conform to intuitive answers that make sense to them. The Childrens Defense Fund, chaired by Robert F. Kennedy Jr, is a nonprofit that advocates for childrens rights and encourages research on vaccines. It warns More and more states  and many legislators from both political parties are displaying a willingness to impose heavyhanded vaccine mandates that trample on religious, parental, and human rights  including the precious right to security of person guaranteed by Article  of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. In , the WHO said that peoples hesitancy to get vaccinated was one of the top  threats to global health. Health officials suggest that at least  to  percent of the worlds population must get vaccinated to quell the pandemic. In May, a poll from The Associated PressNORC Center for Public Affairs Research found that  percent of Americans were unsure if they would get the COVID vaccine once released. However, a recent Gallup poll found that  percent of Americans are willing to get a COVID vaccine. Dr Peter Hotez is dean of the National School of Tropical Medicine at Baylor College of Medicine in Houston. As a vaccine scientist and autism parent, he has led national efforts to defend vaccines against the antivaccine movement. In a  article on the American Medical Association website, Hotez said that there isnt a commensurate response to the movement because we need to hear more from our federal agencies about a strong provaccine campaign or message as well as from scientists. Were uniquely qualified to debunk misinformation and we now have to be willing to step outside of our laboratories and speak out on this because the American public is not hearing from our scientists, he said.