COVID vaccines to be offered to healthcare staff, longterm care residents st in US
2020-12-02 11:00
A woman holds a small bottle labeled with a Coronavirus COVID Vaccine sticker and a medical syringe in this illustration taken October , . PhotoAgencies    WASHINGTON  Health care personnel and residents of longterm care facilities will be the first groups to receive COVID vaccines in the United States, according to a panel meeting of the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention CDC on Tuesday. The Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices, an outside group of medical experts that advises the CDC, met virtually to decide which groups would be first in line to get the COVID vaccines. They voted  to  to recommend that both health care workers and residents of long term care facilities be first in line for any COVID vaccines that get Emergency Use Authorization EUA from the US Food and Drug Administration FDA. Long term care facility residents account for  percent of COVID cases and  percent of COVID deaths in the United States, CNN quoted the CDC as saying. More than , health care workers have been infected with COVID and  have died, according to the CDC. The meeting came a day after American drugmaker Moderna submitted an application to the FDA for EUA of its vaccine candidate mRNA. Another vaccine candidate from American company Pfizer and German drugmaker BioNtech, applied for EUA on Nov. . US Secretary of Health and Human Services Alex Azar said on Monday the first two COVID vaccines could be available to Americans before Christmas. He said Pfizers COVID vaccine could be authorized and shipped within days after a meeting of FDA outside advisers scheduled for Dec. , who would review trial data and recommend whether to warrant approval. Modernas vaccine candidate is expected to be reviewed a week later. The US federal government will ship the vaccines through its normal vaccine distribution system, with state governors determining where they should go first, according to Azar.