Advertising spending plummets
2020-12-02 09:27
The logo of Amazon is seen at the company logistics center in LauwinPlanque, northern France, March , . PhotoAgencies    Global advertising spend is projected to fall by . percent, to . billion this year, led by sharp cuts in investment among the automotive, retail, and travel and tourism sectors as a result of the COVID outbreak, according to a new report. WARC, the global marketing intelligence service, analyzed the data on  markets worldwide in its Global Advertising Trends report. It found  billion had been removed from the market worldwide in  due to the impact of the pandemic and a recovery that could take at least two years. The research suggested that an anticipated . percent rise during  would only be enough to recoup  percent of s losses, and the advertising market would need to grow by . percent in  to match s peak of . billion. Traditional media endured the worst year on record in  and accounted for the vast majority of the advertising market decline. Globally, spend was down by a fifth . percent, or . billion, to a total of . billion, with live TV . percent down and with a drop in revenue of . billion seeing the largest absolute decline to advertising income. Cinema fell . percent, a drop of . billion outofhome fell . percent, a drop of . billion newspapers plummeted . percent, a drop of . billion magazines lost . percent, some  billion and radio dropped . percent, a loss of . billion. All sectors recorded their worst performance in WARCs year history of market monitoring. The online advertising market, which had . percent of this years advertising spending, was fl at with only a . percent fall and total spending of . billion. It was the first year that online advertising has not seen a growth in advertising spending since . Online video was the only ad format to have its prospects upgraded in the latest forecast. Viewing leaped this year as nations imposed stayathome orders to quell the outbreak of the novel coronavirus, and advertising spending was on course to rise by . percent, to . billion, in the sector this year, and a further . percent in . James McDonald, head of data content at WARC, and author of the report, said was the most hostile year for the advertising economy ever seen in our  years of market monitoring. Some platforms, such as ecommerce and social properties, have emerged from this year relatively unscathed, but the vast majority of the media landscape has witnessed a severe material impact. McDonald pointed out an immediate bounce back is not on the horizon, but said growth is likely in most corners of the industry next year. This will be more reflective of a tumultuous  than a sterling , he said. Rising unemployment is set to depress consumption demand well into next year, and though the prospect of a vaccination program offers cause for optimism among consumers and businesses, it may only be a waypoint in a recovery that stretches two years. The automotive sector leads  losses, with advertising spending down by a fifth . percent, or . billion, to  billion this year. The sector is responsible for almost one in five . percent of the lost dollars. The retail sector also curbed spending dramatically a total of . billion was . percent . billion lower than it was in , the report found. The travel and tourism sector was acutely impacted by the global pandemic and this has resulted in ad spend falling by more than a third . percent, or . billion, to . billion in . But the study indicated all product categories are set to increase advertising investment next year, with travel and tourism, which are expected to rise by . percent, leading the growth. Only three sectorstelecoms and utilities, media and publishing, and business and industrialare predicted to improve on the  total in .