Vaccineled rebound not a sure thing
2020-12-02 09:02
A woman holds a small bottle labeled with a Coronavirus COVID Vaccine sticker and a medical syringe in this illustration taken Oct , . PhotoAgencies    Suddenly, there is a credible case for a vaccineled economic recovery. Modern science has delivered what must certainly be one of the greatest miracles of my long lifetime. Just as COVID dragged the world economy into the sharpest and deepest recession on record, an equally powerful symmetry on the upside now seems possible. If only it were that easy. With COVID still ragingand rates of infection, hospitalization and death now spiraling out of control againthe nearterm risks to economic activity have tipped decidedly to the downside in the United States and Europe. The combination of pandemic fatigue and the politicization of public health practices has come into play at precisely the moment when the long anticipated second wave of COVID is at hand. Unfortunately, this fits the script of the dreaded doubledip recession that I warned of recently. The bottom line bears repeating Apparent economic recoveries in the US have given way to relapses in eight of the  business cycles since World War II.The relapses reflect two conditions lingering vulnerability from the recession itself, and the likelihood of aftershocks. Unfortunately, both conditions have now been satisfied. Vulnerability is hardly debatable. Notwithstanding the record  percent annualized snapback in real GDP growth in the third quarter of this year, the US economy was still . percent below its previous peak in the fourth quarter of . With the exception of the  percent peaktotrough decline during the  global financial crisis, the current . percent gap is as large as that recorded in the depths of every other postWWII US recession. Consequently, it is ludicrous to speak of a US economy that is already in recovery. The second quarter snapback was nothing more than the proverbial dead cat bouncea mechanistic postlockdown rebound after the steepest decline on record. That is very different from the organic, cumulative recovery of an economy truly on the mend. The US remains in a deep hole. Just ask US consumers, who, at  percent of GDP, have long accounted for the dominant share of US aggregate demand. After plunging by an unprecedented  percent from January to April, total consumer spending has since recouped about  percent of that loss in real terms. But the devil is in the details. The rebound has been concentrated in goods consumptionbigticket durables like cars, furniture, and appliances, plus softgood nondurables like food, clothing, fuel, and pharmaceuticals that have more than made up for what was lost during the lockdowninduced plunge. In September, goods consumption in real terms was . percent above its prepandemic January  high. The bounceback benefited significantly from a surge in online buying by stayathome consumers, with ecommerce going from . percent of total retail sales in the fourth quarter of  to . percent in the second quarter of . But services consumption, which makes up over  percent of total US consumer spending, is a different matter altogether. Services accounted for fully  percent of the collapse in total consumer spending from January to April. While services have since partly bounced back, as of September, they had recouped just  percent of the lockdowninduced losses earlier this year. With COVID still raging, many vulnerable US consumers remain understandably reluctant to reengage in the personal interaction required for facetoface services activities such as restaurant dining, inperson retail shopping, travel, hotel stays, and leisure and recreation activities. These services collectively account for almost  percent of total household services outlays. The understandable fear of personal interactions in the midst of a pandemic brings us to the second ingredient of the doubledip aftershocks. With the current exponential rise in COVID cases, lockdowns are backnot as severe as in March and April, but still aimed at a partial curtailment of persontoperson activity heading into the allimportant holiday season. Precisely at the moment when the economic calendar typically expects an enormous surge of activity, the odds of a major seasonally adjusted disappointment are rising. This poses serious risks to the stillbattered US labor market. Yes, the overall jobless rate has come down sharply from . percent in April to . percent in October, but it remains essentially double the preCOVID low . percent. With weekly claims for unemployment insurance only just starting to creep up in early November as new curfews and other lockdownlike measures are put into place, and a dysfunctional US Congress failing to agree on another relief package, the risk of renewed weakness in overall employment is growing. The news on vaccines is truly extraordinary. While the logistics of production and distribution are daunting, to say the least, there is good reason to be hopeful that the end of the COVID pandemic may now be in sight. But the impact on the economy will not be instantaneous, with vaccination unlikely to bring about socalled herd immunity until mid at the earliest. So what happens between now and then? For a still vulnerable US economy now in the grips of predictable aftershocks, the case for a relapse, or a doubledip, before mid is all the more compelling. To paraphrase Charles Dickens, this is the best of times and the worst of times. As financial markets celebrate the coming vaccineled boom, the confluence of epidemiological and political aftershocks has pushed us back into a quagmire of heightened economic vulnerability. In Dickensian terms, to reach a spring of hope, we first must endure a winter of despair. The writer is a faculty member at Yale University and the author of Unbalanced The Codependency of America and China.The views do not necessarily reflect those of China Daily.