Virus spread prompts new restrictions
2020-12-01 01:21
Nurse Carolina Garcia, , L takes care of her father, Jose Garcia, , who is currently intubated and sedated due to COVID during a surge of coronavirus disease COVID cases at Memorial Medical Center in Las Cruces, New Mexico, US November , . PhotoAgencies    Los Angeles is telling its  million residents to stay home as much as possible, and San Francisco is imposing a nightly curfew on its , residents as coronavirus cases surge in both cities, while the overall number in the US has hit more than . million. In California, daily case numbers have set records in recent days. Hospitalizations statewide have increased more than  percent in the last two weeks. As of Sunday, ,, Americans had contracted the coronavirus, according to data compiled by Johns Hopkins University, and , have died of COVID. The number of coronavirus cases in the US for November surpassed  million on Saturday, more than double the record of . million cases set in October. Fortyfour states have set weekly case records, and  states have set weekly death records in November. On Tuesday, the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices, a group established by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention CDC will meet to vote on how a coronavirus vaccine will be given out when one has been approved. The government almost always follows the panels advice. Scientific advisers of the Food and Drug Administration FDA will hold a public meeting Dec  to review a request by Pfizer and its German partner BioNTech to allow emergency use of its COVID vaccine candidate. Moderna Inc is expected to also seek emergency use of its vaccine soon. While Los Angeles and San Francisco are imposing new restrictions, New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio announced Sunday that public schools will begin to reopen on Dec  for students in elementary grades whose parents agree to a weekly testing regimen for the novel coronavirus. Students can return only if they have already signed up for inperson learning, meaning fewer than , of the citys schoolchildren, or roughly a third, are even eligible. The mayor closed the school system, the largest in the country, with . million children, on Nov  after the city overall passed a  percent positivecoronavirus testing threshold that had been agreed upon with the teachers union as part of the original schoolreopening plan. He said Sunday that while the citys latest rolling average is . percent, he is partly reopening schools because we have so much proof now how safe schools can be amid the contagion. The president of the United Federation of Teachers said in a statement that the labor union supported the phased reopening so long as stringent testing was in place. I think thats the right direction, Governor Andrew Cuomo said of the mayors announcement. Health experts say schools should be kept open whenever its possible to keep them open safely, he said. Cuomo also said Sunday that the state recorded its highest number of positive cases since May  up . percent on Saturday from . percent the day before. The state last hit . percent on May . This is a new phase for COVID, the governor said on a conference call. You want to call it the winter phase. You want to call it the holiday phase. You want to call it the surgeuponsurge phase. Thats where we are. Los Angeles County, the nations most populous, announced new restrictions on Friday that take effect Monday and run through Dec . The public health department order came as the county confirmed  new deaths and , new confirmed coronavirus cases. The order bans people from gathering with others who arent in their households, whether publicly or privately, except for church services and protests, which are constitutionally protected rights, the public health department said in a statement. The restrictions stop short of a full shutdown of retail stores and other nonessential businesses. It advises residents to stay home as much as possible and to wear a face covering when they go out. Last week, LA County officials said that if the fiveday average of cases exceeded , cases, or if hospitalizations reached more than , a day, it would trigger a new set of restrictions. On Friday, another , cases were reported, and the fiveday average exceeded the limit, so the restrictions were implemented. On Sunday, San Francisco started shutting down many indoor activities. The closures include movie theaters, gyms and fitness centers, as well as museums, aquariums and zoos. Houses of worship also will be required to close. A  pmto am curfew includes all dining, nonessential retail and outdoor gatherings until Dec . On Saturday afternoon, residents received a text message alert warning of a rapid increase in SF Covid cases. On Twitter, Mayor London Breed called the increase in cases the most aggressive surge SF has seen to date. The mayor said the city is averaging  new cases a day compared with  a day in the first week of November. Agencies contributed to this story.