EU, UK entering last week or so of substantive negotiations UK foreign secretary
2020-11-30 09:42
Britains Foreign Affairs Secretary Dominic Raab reacts during BBC TVs   The Andrew Marr Show in London, Britain, November , . PhotoAgencies    LONDON  British Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab said Sunday that talks with the European Union EU on postBrexit trade are entering the last week or so of substantive postBrexit trade negotiations. Calling on the EU to accept a point of principle on fisheries, one of the sticking points in the talks, he seemed to reject what is reported to be the EUs current offer on fishing  to return between  to  percent of fish stocks currently caught by EU fleets in British water, Sky News reported. On other outstanding issues, Raab told Sky News that it feels like theres progress towards greater respect for Britains position on socalled level playing field commitments  a set of postBrexit common rules and standards. Britain and the EU resumed facetoface postBrexit talks in London on Saturday after a EU negotiator tested positive for coronavirus earlier this month. The negotiations are in a crucial stage as time is running out for both sides to secure a deal before Brexit transition period expires at the end of the year. Britain and the EU started their lengthy and bumpy postBrexit talks in March after Britain ended its EU membership on Jan. , trying to secure a future trade deal before the Brexit transition period expires. Commenting on the coronavirus pandemic and its accompanying economic crisis, Raab said ought to focus all of our minds on doing everything we can to give the economy a bit of a boost  both on the UK side but also on the continental European side. His remarks came as another , people in Britain have tested positive for COVID, bringing the total number of coronavirus cases in the country to ,,, according to official figures released on Saturday. The coronavirusrelated deaths in Britain rose by  to ,, the data showed. To bring life back to normal, countries such as Britain, China, Germany, Russia and the United States are racing against time to develop coronavirus vaccines.