Wall St gains, Nasdaq hits record high as holiday shopping begins
2020-11-28 03:20
PhotoAgencies    NEW YORK  Wall Street stocks advanced, with the Nasdaq closing at a record high, on Friday in a holidayshortened week as retailers kicked off the yearend shopping season amid record COVID hospitalizations. The Nasdaq outperformed as investors favored techrelated, marketleading stocks that have fared well during the pandemic, while economically sensitive cyclical stocks weighed. All three indexes rose for the week, in which the SP  reached a new closing high and the bluechip Dow ended above , for the first time ever. Its an abbreviated session and volume is light, so the only conclusion is that the rally is not faltering for now, said Peter Cardillo, chief market economist at Spartan Capital Securities in New York. It does bode well for next month, Cardillo added. Will we see a Santa rally? Most likely. Will it be as robust as November? Thats a big question mark. Retailers opened their doors to Black Friday shoppers, with social distancing practices and other measures put in place to mitigate infection risks, while offering steep discounts. Black Friday has been somewhat tarnished  traffic is down due to the pandemic  but the good news is ecommerce sales have reached a new record, Cardillo said. Thats encouraging. In the latest development on the road toward developing a vaccine against COVID, Britain gave drugmaker AstraZeneca the green light after experts raised questions about the vaccines trial data. As US hospitalizations for coronavirus set a grim record of more than ,, the race for a medical solution to the pandemic has led to promising vaccines from Pfizer Inc, Moderna Inc and others, fueling optimism for light at the end of the tunnel. The Dow Jones Industrial Average rose . points, or ., to ,. the SP  gained . points, or ., at ,. and the Nasdaq Composite added . points, or ., at ,.. Of the  major sectors in the SP , healthcare companies enjoyed the largest percentage gains while energy shares had the biggest percentage loss. Chipmaker stocks, which have been resilient throughout the global health crisis, once again outperformed the broader market, with the Philadelphia SE Semiconductor index rising .. Shares of Walt Disney Co dipped . after the company said it would lay off about , workers, up from the , announced previously. Jobs will be cut mainly at Disneys theme parks. Tesla Inc built on its recent rally, its shares advancing . even as US regulators opened an investigation into front suspension issues in about , Tesla vehicles. USlisted shares of iQIYI Inc fell . after Reuters reported Alibaba Group Holding Ltd and Tencent Holdings Ltd had put on hold talks to buy a controlling stake in the video streaming service. Advancing issues outnumbered decliners on the NYSE by a .to ratio on Nasdaq, a .to ratio favored advancers. The SP  posted  new week highs and no new lows the Nasdaq Composite recorded  new highs and nine new lows. Volume on US exchanges was . billion shares, compared with the . billion average over the last  trading days. Reuters