History and practicality must steer ChinaUS cooperation
2020-11-26 13:53
PhotoXinhua    Editors note Lawrence H. Summers is the former US Secretary of the Treasury. This is an excerpt of his speech at the Understanding China Conference , held in Guangzhou, China, in November. The article reflects the authors opinions, and not necessarily the views of CGTN. It seems to me that your countrys future, how it defines its greatness, your countrys future in relation to my country is going to be important and determinative of the history of the st century. It also seems to me that crucial decisions are likely to be made in the next few years. I can imagine some areas in which the United States prospers and China prospers. I can imagine scenarios in which the United States runs into great difficulty, and China runs into great difficulty and tension. I find it much harder to imagine scenarios in which the United States succeeds while China is failed, or where China succeeds, while the United States is failed. I have an image that I carry in my mind, and I think about the relationship between our two countries. Its of two individuals who have a long and tangled past with each other with some good memories, and some memories not so good, who find themselves in a lifeboat in a turbulent sea, a long way from shore. They did not really have the luxury of working through their mutual frustrations with each other. Neither can really afford to succeed in avenging their grievance with respect to the other. Instead, both need to row and to row in unison, if they are to make it through that turbulent sea, to the shore. It is not a matter of generosity. Its not even a matter of cooperative spirit. It is a matter of recognition of reality, the development of respect for mutual interest in a situation in which they find themselves. And that I would suggest is the situation of the United States and China. We need to be realistic. We have very different conceptions as nations, of how a society should be organized, of how a society should be governed. We are not going to resolve those differences in philosophy. Nations are gonna make their own choices as to how they organize their societies. To be sure, theyre going to look to the examples we represent. And the success that each of us has as societies in delivering for our people is going to be enormously influential around the world. And in that sense, we are going to compete, compete importantly as examples. I believe that our systems example is going to prevail in that competition, just as I would expect, that my Chinese friends, might believe in the superiority of your system and the example that it represents. So, we are going to be engaged in competition. We are also gonna have different views on specific issues, whether those specific issues involve islands in important parts of the Pacific Ocean, whether those issues involve what exactly should be done within an international institution. But like those two oarsmen in that boat, a long way from shore. We are gonna have to find ways of working through those issues to find resolutions that are not the choice we would prefer if it was only up to us, or the choice that you would prefer if it was only up to you. What are some of those issues? The longterm future of humanity is an issue with respect to how we treat the one planet that we have. What happens to the emission of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases is going to determine the way, in which our great grandchildren live. There is no question that we cant afford to continue to use coal and fossil fuels in the way that we have been using. What choices we and you make with respect to how we produce energy, how we consume on energy, how we structure our societies will be profoundly important. Your countrys commitment recently with respect to target dates for moving to zero emissions were very welcome. But of course, with respect to very longrun goals, its important to know how we gonna be able to judge what kind of progress is being made. Our country is not distinguished itself on these issues in the last few years. But I am optimistic that in a new political environment, we will do much better. COVID pointed out what is the major threat to humanity pandemic disease. It is not the first major disease. Think about SARS, think about Ebola. And it will not be the last. And it must be said, the progress the world is seems to be making toward finding a vaccine is extraordinary. And while your society has adjusted and taken very powerful steps toward putting COVID in the rearview mirror, this is not been an easy period. We are gonna have to find ways of making sure that in the future, the kinds of conditions that can give rise to this disease and its leapfrogging from animals to humans are much more heavily regulated than they have been in the past. We are gonna need much more satisfactory commitments and absolute policies of information sharing globally at the first indication of possible risks from pandemic disease. And we are gonna have to learn from each other how and, when pandemics starts, to slow its spread. There are also large economic challenges in this moment. China has done a remarkable job of restoring economic growth and progress after the difficulties of last winter. The restoration of economic growth has been slower in the United States and many other Western countries. We are going to need to find ways of cooperating in the economic area, particularly with respect to developing countries, many of which face very large challenges, because they dont have the domestic resources to do the kinds of things that the United States and China have done. Now that it is a rich and strong economy with great financial institutions, in the process of working through debt issues in emerging markets is another priority for the near future. Perhaps the most challenging set of issues in this post COVID world involves technology, flows of data and artificial intelligence. There are going to need to be boundaries in separate spheres. Because so often, data and processing of data are sensitive information for national security. But therere also important areas of cooperation. If humanity is to be the master of artificial intelligence rather than being mastered by artificial intelligence, if all societies are to have a chance to move forward, we are gonna need to be able to work through those issues. There are some who believe that the diplomacy between our two countries cannot work. I reject that view. Whether the issue is climate, whether the issue is the dramatic changes and narrowing of your current account surplus over the last decade, whether the issue is the substantially increasing the accessibility of your country and my country, to investment from the other country, at least until a few years ago, whether the issue is your enhanced participation in UN peacekeeping, or in the international financial institutions. There is much that has been accomplished through frank and diplomatic dialogue. We are gonna need much more of that in the years ahead. I believe that the any illusion that one of us is going to converse the other, or that one of us is going to destroy or vanquish the other, or that one of us is going to emerge uniquely supreme in the world is the enemy of cooperation. But mutual respect and mutual dialogue, and setting a course together in areas where history and practicality yoke us together on that lifeboat has to be the approach forward for China and United States in the post COVID world.