Best of times, worst of times
2020-11-25 14:01
PhotoAgencies    Editors note Harvey Dzodin is a senior fellow at the Center for China and Globalization. The article reflects the authors opinions, and not necessarily the views of CGTN. For many of us,  has been the strangest year of our lives, given the shock caused by COVID. Im reminded of the memorable opening of Charles Dickenss great novel, The Tale of Two Cities It was the best of times, it was the worst of times, it was the age of wisdom, it was the age of foolishness. November perfectly illustrates the contradictions. This month, in much of the world, one or more successive waves of the coronavirus continue to wreak havoc. People are dying and economies are comatose. Yet, in China and a few smaller countries, personal lives and economic activities have returned to near normalcy. With the imminent promise of effective vaccines, all countries have the prospect of being part of a community of a shared healthy future for mankind in . At the same time, however that many countries are floundering andor have given up on confronting the virus, others have bound themselves together in the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership RCEP, reorienting the global compass needle from West to East in what is now not only the Chinese Century, but the Asian Century. This is a genuine pivot, a gamechanger and a sign of things to come. As an American, Ive always looked forward to November, but not this year. Im under a second COVID lockdown in Vienna. The charms of the city like the Golden Hall and Empress Sisis Hofburg Palace are offlimits to all. Tourism is nonexistent and so the revenue that helps power Austrias economy. Having failed to arrest the virus like China has, the government here has the nearimpossible task of finding the microscopic sweet spot balancing the publics health and that of its economy. Virtually all of Europe, Latin America and beyond are in the same boat. Back in the US, we celebrate Thanksgiving Day on the fourth Thursday in November. Its the most familyoriented holiday of the year and usually the most traveled, although a pale truncated version of Chinas Spring Festival. But this year its difficult to be truly thankful, even given the promise of numerous vaccines from the US, China, the World Health Organization WHOs COVAX accelerator and elsewhere. The fact is that after more than a quarter of a million deaths and almost  million cases, many avoidable, US numbers are dramatically accelerating, not abating. The current administration continues to fail to address this calamity. The deeply divided country doesnt even have an officially declared winner of the November  presidential election. China seems like its in another galaxy life there is so normal. China has virtually no COVID cases, and those that exist, virtually all foreign in origin, are dealt with speed and efficiency to prevent further spread. No place but China has the ability to competently test the population of a city of nine million people in a mere five days as was done in Qingdao last month. As a consequence, Chinas economy has largely recovered and is robust. In fact, despite COVID, Chinas first centennial goal of building a moderately prosperous socialist society in all respects is on track to being accomplished by yearend as is its second centennial goal of becoming a great modern socialist country by . With the prospect of the countrys implementation of Chinas th FiveYear Plan in tandem with the dual circulation paradigm, under the leadership of President Xi Jinping and the Communist Party of China, the country appears to be the only major economy poised for growth this year. Even in this most troubled time, Chinas future promises to be bright. Despite the global gloom, even when tempered by the prospect of global normalcy by this time next year, the virtual RCEP signing ceremony was definitely a transformative milestone. Its one of those rare events that demarcate one era from another. As Chinese Premier Li Keqiang said Under the current global circumstances, the fact the RCEP has been signed after eight years of negotiations brings a ray of light and hope amid the clouds. He said RCEP also represented a victory of multilateralism and free trade. RCEPs  AsiaPacific countries encompass some . billion people and  percent of the worlds economic output. It is bigger than both the region of the USMexicoCanada Agreement and the European Union. RCEP is the first multilateral trade deal for China, the first bilateral tariff reduction arrangement between Japan and China, and the first time China, Japan and South Korea have joined in a single freetrade agreement. Although some experts downplay its significance, I believe RCEP is nothing short of a gamechanger. RCEP is expected to eliminate a range of tariffs on imports within  years. The  page agreement includes provisions on intellectual property, telecommunications, financial services, ecommerce and professional services. Never mind that it will make trading for members significantly easier, it will also mean nonmember countries and their enterprises will be economically disadvantaged. For the US, being on the outside means it loses considerable influence and the ability to shape trade in the AsiaPacific region and beyond. The US Chamber of Commerce, representing large American business interests, said on Monday that its members were concerned that the US is being left behind as economic integration accelerates across the AsiaPacific region. Similar to the economic integration of the European Union begun under its predecessors like the European Coal and Steel Community and the European Economic Community, RCEP is expected to improve relations among its member states by creating economic interdependence as companies invest in each others countries. It could also add  billion annually to world incomes and  billion to world trade by . RCEP also has serious implications for integrating its member states into Chinas Belt  Road Initiative BRI. Of particular import, as the coronavirus rages on, will be an emphasis on a Health Silk Road, particularly in Southeast Asia, to prevent supply shortages as were seen earlier this year, as well as to promote hightech in the public health arena.