Oxford English Dictionary names words of the year
2020-11-24 14:48
Use of the word pandemic has increased by more than , percent this year.PhotoXinhua    Oxford English Dictionary OED announced Monday for the first time that it has chosen not to name one single word of the year, but many words for the unprecedented year . Describing  as a year which cannot be neatly accommodated in one single word, OED said Monday that there were too many words to sum up the events of . Tracking its vast corpus of more than  billion words found in webbased news, blogs and other text sources, its lexicographers revealed what the dictionary described as seismic shifts in language data and precipitous frequency rises in new coinage over the past  months. Most words of the year are coronavirusrelated, including coronavirus, lockdown, circuitbreaker, support bubbles, keyworkers, furlough and face masks. The report said the word coronavirus dates back to the s and was previously mainly used by scientific and medical specialists. But by April this year it had become one of the most frequently used nouns in the English language, exceeding even the usage of the word time. It said use of the word pandemic has increased by more than , percent this year. The revolution in working habits during the pandemic has also affected language, with both remote and remotely seeing more than  percent growth in use since March. On mute and unmute have seen  percent rises since March, while the portmanteaus workation and staycation also increased drastically. Casper Grathwohl, the president of Oxford Dictionaries, said Ive never witnessed a year in language like the one weve just had. The Oxford team was identifying hundreds of significant new words and usages as the year unfolded, dozens of which would have been a slam dunk for Word of the Year at any other time. Its both unprecedented and a little ironic  in a year that left us speechless,  has been filled with new words unlike any other, Grathwohl added. The OEDs announcement mirrored the huge impact of the COVID on the people from all walks of life. To bring life back to normal, countries such as Britain, China, Germany, Russia and the United States are racing against time to develop coronavirus vaccines.