Australias Sydney retailers happily reopen from lockdown
2021-10-12 14:15
A hairdresser cuts the hair of a customer as businesses reopen to vaccinated patrons in the wake of coronavirus disease COVID regulations easing, following months of lockdown orders to curb the rise in the number of cases, in Sydney, Australia, Oct , . PhotoAgencies    SYDNEY  Restaurants, cafes, pubs, gyms and a myriad of other businesses that have been shut for months in Australias Sydney are ecstatic to finally reopen as the state of New South Wales NSW takes the first step of Roadmap to Freedom. The NSW government has launched the first phase of its longawaited Roadmap to Freedom with a partial lift of restrictions only available to those who have had their two doses of vaccines. Under the first phase of the scheme, which began on Monday, there is a series of conditions placed on retail and hospitality venues in Greater Sydney. Cafes and restaurants, for instance, must ensure customers are fully vaccinated and have their vaccine passports. There must be no more than one customer per  square meters indoors or one person per  square meters outdoors. Customers must be seated while drinking alcohol, and staff must continue to wear masks. Such rules and regulations, however, are not enough to dampen the enthusiasm of one waitress who spoke to Xinhua. Im so excited for it, said Maite, who works at Delicado Food and Wine situated near Sydneys famous Harbour Bridge. Our store opens every Tuesday, so for us, everything will go back to normal from today. Im not sure about how many people will come, but Im just going to roll with no pressure. The owner of Bills Caf, in fashionable innercity Sydney, was equally keen to get back to business after about four months in lockdown. He has been putting that time to good use by creating a new menu, redecorating his caf and hiring new staff. All of our staff were vaccinated, and we have to follow the rules to check peoples vaccination passports, he told Xinhua. Another difference is that we used to be full all the time, with almost  people inside, but now we can only have roughly . Some businesses, seriously hit by the lockdown, are encouraging customers to spend again by offering promotions. Airline Virgin Australia, for example, released , seats for  Australian dollars about  for two regional routes to mark the Freedom Day, with the companys spokesperson expecting the fares to sell out quickly. The discounted airfares will be available for travel between Nov  and June  of the next year, when regional travel is expected to be allowed again statewide. Retail liquor store chain BWS is giving away , sixpacks of beers to celebrate the Roadmap to Freedom to encourage Aussies to share a drink with their mates. Customers aged over  can redeem the free brew when they create an account on the companys website. Amid all the retail good cheer, however, there remains a few concerns. Bills Caf owner is worried that customers may still not come because of the fear of the virus, and we need to turn away some unvaccinated people otherwise we will be fined. The vaccine requirements to enter premises have already become controversial with several store owners saying they would keep their doors shut until everyone was granted access. Owners of the Hardcore Gym in southern Sydney said on their website that the vaccination passports went against the companys values, not only as a business but as humans that are part of a free society. We are anticipating a new beginning as soon as the NSW Premier Dominic Perrottet permits both vaccinated and unvaccinated members and guests to enter gyms, owner Hicham Hammoud told local reporters. Egg of the Universes wholefood cafs in Sydney will also stay shut as they need to work out how to manage health orders while respecting customers, according to a statement. We want to reopen safely, but we need to carefully consider what operation in a COVIDnormal world looks like for us and all businesses, it said.