More job losses among older people than first thought amid pandemic
2020-11-24 09:55
A Royal Mail postal worker walks past a pub in York as the spread of the coronavirus disease COVID continues, York, Britain, March , . PhotoAgencies    The novel coronavirus pandemic has created a larger rise in unemployment among older people in the United Kingdom than among any other age group. The startling revelation, which runs contrary to the previously accepted idea that the virus has been particularly hard on young workers, follows analysis of Office for National Statistics data conducted by Rest Less, an online employment site. The study found the number of unemployed people in the UK aged at least  had increased by a third during the past year, compared to a rise of  percent across the entire workingage population. The website said the total number of unemployed people in the UK aged  or less is larger than the total number of people aged  or older who are without work, but the change over time in those populations has been more dramatic among the over s. The site claims the increase in the number of unemployed people was  percent for those aged  to ,  percent for those aged  to ,  percent for those aged  to , and  percent for the over s. The Guardian newspaper quoted Stuart Lewis, the founder of Rest Less, as saying There is no doubt that we are facing a youth employment crisis right now but less well documented is the fact that we are also facing a longterm unemployment disaster among older workers. John Philpott, a former director of the Employment Policy Institute think tank, told the Guardian The popular view that the COVID pandemic has  hurt the young far harder when it comes to jobs does not tell the entire story. With the level of job vacancies far below the prepandemic high, jobseekers of every age are struggling to find work and endemic age discrimination is making it doubly difficult for unemployed people aged over . Separate research from the Londonbased nonprofit Centre for Ageing Better and the independent research organization the Learning and Work Institute found that around , older workers will be at especially high risk of losing their jobs when the governments furlough program ends in March. And things are likely to remain difficult for vulnerable workers for some time as the economy continues to struggle, according to Andy Haldane, chief economist at the Bank of England. Haldane said on Monday during a conference for charities organized by Civil Society Media that the pandemic will leave a legacy of not only unemployment, but high debt, missed educations, and mental health problems. The vaccine announcements of the past few weeks offer hope at the end of the tunnel, the Reuters news agency quoted him as saying. Nonetheless, even with a vaccine, its clear this crisis will lead to some lasting scars, particularly on the poorest and the most disadvantaged. But he said around twothirds of the economic loss that followed the imposition of the nations first lockdown earlier this year has now been recouped. I think its now reasonable and realistic to speak of next year as turning a leaf for us economically, he added.