G leadership vital in defense against COVID UN chief
2020-11-23 09:40
United Nation Secretary General, Antonio Guterres, conducts virtual press briefing from his office in New York ahead of the annual G Summit World Leaders to take place in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, Nov , . PhotoAgencies    UNITED NATIONS  United Nations SecretaryGeneral Antonio Guterres said on Sunday that the leadership of the Group of  G is vital in the global struggle with the COVID pandemic. Our greatest defense against COVID is solidarity and cooperation, the UN chief was speaking at a virtual summit of G leaders under the theme Building an inclusive, sustainable and resilient future, where he highlighted the importance of G leadership in the fight against the pandemic and the effort to build back better. First of all, the secretarygeneral said that the G leadership is critical in halting the further spread of the pandemic. Yesterday, I was encouraged by the broad recognition that vaccines  as well as tests and treatments  must be global public goods, available and affordable for all, he said, referring to the progress in the firstday meeting of the summit. But I want to repeat the call on G members to support the ACTAccelerator and its COVAX facility. There is a financial gap of  billion US dollars and we need . billion dollars of that immediately for mass manufacturing, procurement and distribution around the world, he said. Secondly, the top UN official said, the leadership is also vital in mobilizing the resources to build forward better. There will be no different and better future without stronger action now to provide the necessary liquidity and tackle the debt emergency of the most vulnerable, he explained. It means strengthening the firepower of the IMF International Monetary Fund and other international financial institutions in support of the developing world, including through a new issuance of Special Drawing Rights and the reallocation of unused SDRs, Guterres added. It means broadening the eligibility of the G debt initiatives to all vulnerable developing countries, including the middleincome ones that need it, he said. The UN chief believed that the third important role of the G leadership is aligning their recovery efforts with the  Agenda for Sustainable Development and the Paris Agreement on Climate Change. To build an inclusive, resilient and sustainable postCOVID world, public spending must be linked with achieving the Sustainable Development Goals, said the secretarygeneral. We have a moral obligation to ensure that the trillions of dollars for COVID recovery  money that we are borrowing from future generations  does not leave them burdened by a mountain of debt on a broken planet, he said. The recovery must help to reconcile humankind and nature on all fronts. From climate to biodiversity, from protecting the oceans to stopping deforestation and land degradation, he added.