G eyes recovery through cooperation
2020-11-21 07:00
An advertisement of G Riyadh Summit is seen ahead of the summit in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, Nov , . PhotoAgencies    President Xi Jinpings address, via video, to the ongoing G summit in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, will help accelerate global efforts to resume normal economic and social activities in order to boost global economic recovery. From the meetings of finance ministers and central bank governors to the summit of heads of state or government, the G analyzes and reviews global economic problems with the aim of promoting international financial stability and addressing issues that go beyond the responsibilities of any one organization or country. The group became one of the important platforms of global economic governance after the inaugural G summit in , which played a key role in tackling the global financial crisis. The twoday Riyadh summit, which started on Saturday, is expected to discuss the systemic governance crisis in many countries which has come to the fore after the novel coronavirus pandemic broke out. Debt is a vital issue, and the global economic recession has worsened the debt problem of many countries. For example, Zambia became Africas first sovereign defaulter during the pandemic, failing to pay national debts of more than  million even after a day grace period earlier this month. Thanks to their relatively good economic condition, the G member economies have provided loans for lessdeveloped countries, which the latter use to sustain or boost their economic development. After the pandemic broke out, the G, in a laudatory move in April, announced the debt service suspension initiative. But with the pandemic still raging in many parts of the world, just the suspension of debt repayments is not enough to help stabilize the economy of lowincome countries. And although last month the G extended the suspension of loan repayment for another six months, it will still not ease those countries burdens. Thats why the G summit is likely to discuss how to establish a debt relief mechanism, and for the first time China, India, Turkey and some other emerging economies will be involved in the multilateral debt restructuring process. True, giving lessdeveloped countries further debt relief would be stressful for many creditor countries, but to maintain global economic stability, G members have to make more efforts to establish an effective framework for global debt restructuring. For instance, the G can cooperate with nonG economies, especially members of the Paris Club, a platform for global debt restructuring, to find ways to grant debt relief to lessdeveloped countries without putting excessive pressure on the creditors. They will also have to encourage private sector creditors to give relief to countries saddled with debts. Besides, the G can strengthen coordination with the International Monetary Fund to introduce debtrelief programs through open and transparent negotiations. As for China, this is the first time it is participating in a multilateral debt restructuring process. As the largest creditor country in the G, China supports the debtrelief and other multilateral cooperation mechanisms because it is sincere about fulfilling its commitments to shared global governance and development. Indeed, the G and global organizations, such as the World Health Organization, Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovation, and GAVI, the Vaccine Alliance, have contributed funds for carrying out COVID tests in many countries, as well as for research and development of COVID vaccines and medicines, and their subsequent manufacturing and distribution. Yet the equitable distribution of vaccines remains uncertain. Since the production capacity of no pharmaceutical company is infinite, the vaccines can be made only in limited volumes. As such, some rich economies have placed huge orders for the vaccines, making equitable vaccine distribution almost impossible. For instance, the United States has not joined COVAX, the COVID Vaccine Global Access Facility, but instead ordered  million vaccine doses for . billion, with options for ordering  million more. And the European Union has placed an order for  million doses, with provisions for  million more. China, on the other hand, has promised to treat any vaccines it develops as global public goods and ensure, with the help of other COVAX members, equitable supply of those vaccines to developing countries. But since the vaccine race has heated up, China should persuade likeminded countries to intensify their efforts to ensure the equitable supply of vaccines as much as possible. Moreover, since the pandemicinduced economic recession has boosted the cooperation spirit around the world, the G summit is likely to chart new ways to expedite global economic recovery by, for example, promoting international trade and investmentand better coordination and cooperation is still the best way the world can overcome the economic and other impacts of the pandemic. The author is an associate researcher of the Institute of West Asia and Africa of the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences, and council member of the Chinese Society of Asian and African Studies. The views dont necessarily represent those of China Daily. If you have a specific expertise and would like to contribute to China Daily, please contact us at opinionchinadaily.com.cn, and commentchinadaily.com.cn