WHO experts back booster dose of COVID vaccine for immunocompromised
2021-10-12 09:21
FILE PHOTO A patient receives their coronavirus disease COVID vaccine booster during a PfizerBioNTech vaccination clinic in Southfield, Michigan, US, September , . PhotoAgencies    GENEVA  Experts from the World Health Organization WHO recommended on Monday that booster doses of COVID vaccines should be offered to moderately and severely immunocompromised people. After four days of talks last week, the WHOs Strategic Advisory Group of Experts on Immunization SAGE recommended that such people should receive a third dose of a vaccine on the WHO Emergency Use Listing UEL as they are less likely to respond adequately to vaccination following a standard primary vaccine series and are at high risk of severe COVID disease. Since the end of September, several COVID vaccines have been certified by WHO UEL, including PfizerBioNTech, Janssen, Moderna, Sinopharm, Sinovac, AstraZeneca, and Covishield. SAGE said it had also reviewed COVAXIN, made by Indias Bharat Biotech, and a policy recommendation will be issued once the vaccine is approved by WHO UEL. Third doses of the Sinovac and Sinopharm inactivated virus vaccines should be offered to those over , said WHO experts. Meanwhile, the use of a heterologous or live virus vaccine for the additional dose may also be considered based on vaccine supply and access considerations. When implementing this recommendation, countries should initially aim at maximizing twodose coverage in that population, and thereafter administer the third dose, starting in the oldest age groups, SAGE said. The WHO had earlier called for a global moratorium on COVID booster doses, aiming for a more equitable distribution of vaccines globally to enable every country to vaccinate at least  percent of its population. Last week, WHO announced an initiative to vaccinate  percent of the population of every country against COVID by the end of , and  percent by mid. This drive would prioritize vaccine delivery to lowincome countries, particularly those in Africa.