Research for new antibiotics needs global push
2020-11-20 09:25
Pedestrians walk past a store with guidelines for social distance and face masks in New York City, on Nov , . PhotoAgencies    More than one in five people in the United States hospitalized with COVID also contract a bacterial infection. Without effective antibiotics, those lucky enough to beat the coronavirus might die from these notsonovel pathogens. Unfortunately, the pipeline of new antibiotics is running dry. Less than  years after the development of penicillin, drugresistant superbugs are threatening to gain the upper hand in our fight against bacterial infections. Superbugs already take an enormous toll on healthcare systems around the world. About , people worldwide die each year due to antimicrobial resistance, or AMR. Without new and better treatments, that figure could rise to  million by . Researchers are currently developing more than  innovative treatments and vaccines for COVIDa pathogen unknown just a year ago. But although AMR has been a known and growing problem for decades, only one new class of antibiotics has been discovered since . The hugely successful biopharmaceutical industry, whose expertise and resources are responsible for most of the medicines we use today, has been unable to take on this vital challenge. The reason is simple Whereas the industry has built its strong and unprecedented COVID response on a robust innovation ecosystem, the market for antibiotics is broken. Companies that successfully develop a new antibiotic face major challenges. Navigating regulatory approval and potential safety issues is expensive and timeconsuming, requiring skills that smaller drugmakers often lack. But prospective sales pose an insurmountable problem. New antibiotics should be used extremely sparingly to prevent bacteria from evolving and growing immune to them. Ideally, they should serve as weapons of last resort against bacteria that are resistant to more common antibiotics. Probable sales for any new antibiotic will therefore be very low hospitals will have just a few dosesall under lock and keyfor emergency use only. Unfortunately, this means the potential market return is too low to justify the necessary investment in research and development. At the heart of this upsidedown economics is the issue of how to recognize the value of a treatment that must be used only infrequently. John Rex, chief medical officer of the British biotech company FG, compares advanced antimicrobials to fire extinguishers absolutely essential, but ideally rarely needed. A handful of companies are still doggedly pursuing this line of research against the odds. They include Merck, GlaxoSmithKline, Shionogi and Rocheas well as Pfizer, which recently acquired Arixa Pharmaceuticals, a small, Californiabased company developing new antibiotics for drugresistant infections. But many drugmakers have abandoned antibiotics research. Big companies such as Novartis, AstraZeneca and Sanofi exited the market long agoand in the past two years, at least four smaller antibioticfocused companies have gone bankrupt. Although the global health community isfortunatelybeginning to recognize the urgent need for new antibiotics, there has so far been much talk and little action. A few players are experimenting with some alternative ways of financing the development of new medicines. But in general, unsurprisingly, so far political leaders find it easier to sign up to declamatory statements at highlevel meetings than to sign billiondollar checks to fix the broken market. That is why many of the worlds largest drugmakers helped to launch the AMR Action Fund in July. The fund will invest  billion in smaller biotech companies, with the aim of bringing two to four new antibiotics to patients by  by helping to bridge the socalled valley of death between lab research and clinical trials. The initiative took a year to set up, and politicians and the public health community, including World Health Organization DirectorGeneral Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, as well as scientists already researching treatments to combat drugresistant bacteria, have widely welcomed it. While we wait for new antimicrobials, doctors, governments and the public can buy time by further curbing the overuse of existing antibiotics in medicine and agriculture, which is partly what caused the problem. Government regulation has reined in the worst excesses, by scaling back use, including in cleaning products and farm animals. Still, more careful use of the most widely adopted antibiotics is needed to slow the spread of AMR. For example, we should not expect our doctors to give us antibiotics to combat viruses, against which they are useless. Ultimately, however, slowing the spread is not enough. We must fundamentally change the way we value new antibiotics. Rather than linking their price to the quantity used, we should instead regard them as an insurance policy for medicine and health services. Countries are experimenting with different models to support antibiotic research. But one way or another, as the WHO has pointed out, governments will need to establish incentives that reward biotech companies for successfully developing antibiotics. Next years G summit in the United Kingdom will, one hopes, produce longawaited real commitments rather than merely more talk and a few pilot initiatives. The world is locked in an arms race against superbugs. For now, the bugs are winning. But by fixing longstanding problems in the antibiotics market, we can begin to turn the tide. This article was previously published by international media organization Project Syndicate. The writer is directorgeneral of the International Federation of Pharmaceutical Manufacturers and Associations, chair of the AMR Industry Alliance and founder of the AMR Action Fund.