Texas surpasses , virus deaths, second highest in US
2020-11-17 03:38
Frontline healthcare workers work at a drivein COVID testing site amid a surge of COVID cases in El Paso on November ,  in El Paso, Texas. PhotoAgencies    AUSTIN, Texas  Texas surpassed , confirmed coronavirus deaths Monday, as COVID continues to surge in the United States. That is the secondhighest death count overall in the U.S., trailing only New York, according to researchers from Johns Hopkins University. Its the ndhighest per capita at . deaths per , people. So far, Texas leaders have given no indication of forthcoming restrictions to keep people from gathering and spreading the virus. Instead, Republican Gov. Greg Abbott in recent days has been emphasizing that new therapeutics and vaccines are expected to become available soon. A state appeals court last week sided with Texas Attorney General Ken Paxton and lifted a local shutdown order in El Paso, where mobile morgues are being trucked in to help overwhelmed hospitals and funeral homes. The El Paso county morgue reached out to the El Paso Sheriffs Department for help after it became overwhelmed, according to El Paso Sheriffs Department Public Affairs Director Chris Acosta. Inmates of the countys detention facility were asked to help for a stipend of  an hour, Acosta said in a statement. According to Acosta, between four and eight participants of the detention facilitys trustee program have volunteered daily since Nov. . She said they are accompanied by a sheriff deputy and two detention officers and are provided with personal protective equipment. The volunteers are minimum custody inmates with misdemeanor offenses, Acosta said, and their volunteer service is temporary since we are waiting for the National Guard to take over. Texas also became Americas first state to record more than  million confirmed COVID cases last week. It also recently surpassed California, the most populous state, in recording the highest number of positive coronavirus tests. The true number of infections is likely higher because many people havent been tested, and studies suggest people can be infected and not feel sick. During the summer, people with COVID overwhelmed hospitals in Houston and in the Rio Grande Valley, along the border with Mexico. But in the fall case numbers dipped, and Abbott began relaxing some coronavirus restrictions, allowing restaurants and gyms to let more people inside. He also let county leaders decide if they wanted to reopen bars at  capacity. Since then, the virus has spread. Over the past two weeks, the rolling average number of daily new cases has increased by ,., an increase of .. Texas now ranks st in the country for new cases per capita, with . new cases per , people over the past two weeks. One in every  people in Texas tested positive in the past week. Acacia Coronado is a corps member for the Associated PressReport for America Statehouse News Initiative. Report for America is a nonprofit national service program that places journalists in local newsrooms to report on undercovered issues. Agencies via Xinhua