nabbed in antilockdown protest in southwest England
2020-11-16 09:45
People wearing protective face masks are seen walking past artwork named the Well Hung Lover, painted by artist Banksy, after new nationwide restrictions were announced during the coronavirus disease COVID outbreak in Bristol, Britain, November , .PhotoAgencies    LONDON  Around  people have been arrested in Bristol in southwest England after antilockdown marchers defied police orders to cancel their protest, local media reported Sunday. Local police said about  people gathered on College Green at midday on Saturday before marching through the city center in protest of the lockdown measures, said the Londonbased Evening Standard newspaper. The protest went ahead in defiance of the lockdown restrictions in England, the monthlong social curbs starting Nov. , which bans gatherings of more than two people. Warning the event was unlawful in advance, local police said several people were identified as leaders of the protest and were arrested. Most arrests were for breaches of the coronavirus regulations, with one man also arrested for assaulting a police officer, local police said. By law, anyone organizing or facilitating a gathering of more than  people is liable to a fixed penalty notice of , pounds about , U.S. dollars while those participating in a gathering of more than two people can be fined  pounds about . dollars. Englands lockdown, the second of its kind since the coronavirus outbreak in the country, is expected to end on Dec. . The next two weeks will be absolutely crucial if Englands lockdown is to end as planned on Dec. , a government scientific adviser, professor Susan Michie, said Saturday. The public must resist breaking the rules in order to be in a position to spend the Christmas period with loved ones, she said. Another , people in Britain have tested positive for COVID, bringing the total number of coronavirus cases in the country to ,,, according to official figures released Saturday. The coronavirusrelated deaths in Britain rose by  to ,, the data showed. Britain is the first European nation to record more than , coronavirus deaths. It is the fifth country in the world to hit the tragic milestone, following the United States, Brazil, India and Mexico. To bring life back to normal, countries such as Britain, China, Germany, Russia and the U.S. are racing against time to develop coronavirus vaccines.