Li urges speedy consultations on S. China Sea conduct code
2020-11-13 09:16
Premier Li Keqiang addresses his counterparts during the ChinaASEAN leaders meeting held online during the th summit of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations in Hanoi on Thursday. NHAC NGUYENAFP    China calls on all parties involved to speed up consultations on the expected Code of Conduct in the South China Sea in a flexible and pragmatic way, Premier Li Keqiang said on Thursday. Li made the remark during the annual ChinaASEAN leaders meeting via video link. He urged all  Southeast Asian member countries to overcome the impact of COVID and think in a creative manner when approaching talks on the document, which is designed to help manage the South China Sea situation. By so doing, China and ASEAN countries will demonstrate to the international community that they have the wisdom and capability to properly manage the situation in the South China Sea and safeguard its peace and stability, Li said. Beijing will positively consider convening facetoface consultations in China as soon as the COVID pandemic allows in order to bring forward the second reading of the code of conducts draft, according to the premier. Li said the South China Sea is the shared home of countries in the region, the situation there is stable in general and that China and ASEAN countries have worked to actively manage differences and steadily advance consultations on the code. China remains firmly committed and determined to conclude the consultations at an early date, Li said. Thursdays annual meeting took place in a historic year that has seen ASEAN as a whole become Chinas largest trading partner. In the first three quarters, trade between China and ASEAN reached . billion, a yearonyear rise of  percent, and Chinas total investment in ASEAN countries increased by . percent yearonyear, ViceForeign Minister Luo Zhaohui said on Wednesday. Also, China and ASEAN have been working jointly to fight the novel coronavirus since the pandemics outbreak, enhancing cooperation and sharing their experience in the fight. Li stressed that the concerted, combined force of China and ASEAN has been a key factor underlying the strong momentum of ChinaASEAN cooperation and its important role in ensuring regional peace, stability, development and prosperity. To further catalyze ChinaASEAN teamwork, Li made a fourpoint proposal encompassing public health, trade, digital economy and sustainable development. China will actively consider ASEAN countries needs for a COVID vaccine and will take practical actions to promote the accessibility and affordability of vaccines, Li said. He called for launching a ChinaASEAN public health emergency liaison network at an early date. In terms of promoting regional economic recovery, Li said China welcomes the upcoming signing of the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership trade agreement, which will upgrade regional trade and bolster investment liberalization and facilitation. The two sides also should exchange their experience in fields such as digital governance and jointly ensure data security and network security, Li said, adding that China expects early results in projects that involve areas like maritime cooperation. The meeting issued two documents. The first was an action plan aimed at implementing in  to  the Joint Declaration on ASEANChina Strategic Partnership for Peace and Prosperity, which was signed by the  countries in . The second document was an initiative calling for building a ChinaASEAN cooperative partnership on digital economy. The meeting also announced that  will be the year of ChinaASEAN sustainable development.