ChinaAfrica cooperation continues moving forward
2020-11-13 09:15
The Forum on ChinaAfrica Cooperation has become a platform for the two sides to build friendship, coordinate cooperation strategies and deliberate development plans over the past  years. The forum has become a big, friendly family within an improved system. All members play a leading role in organizing conferences and implementing the results of each FOCAC. The principles of broad consultation and shared contributions and benefits are essential to the forum. The realms of cooperation have expanded from economics and trade in the early years to more areas, such as cultural and educational exchanges, peace and security, and healthcare. The forum has driven the bilateral and multilateral wheels of cooperation between China and the African continent as a whole, as well as between China and individual African nations. It has also built a platform for cooperation at the central, local, corporate and nongovernmental levels. Its membership is growing. In , the African Union Commission joined the forum, which now has  members with a total population of . billion people, or onethird of the global population. A record  heads of African states and governments attended the FOCACs  Beijing Summit. ChinaAfrica ties have moved forward in three stages, from new partnership to new strategic partnership to comprehensive strategic partnership. Over the past two decades, China and Africa have achieved fruitful results in cooperation that have supported the African continent, which has the largest number of developing countries in the world. President Xi Jinping emphasized that the greatest righteousness of ChinaAfrica relations is to use Chinas growth to help Africa develop. The relationship has ultimately achieved mutual benefits, winwin outcomes and common development. China has been Africas largest trading partner for  consecutive years and has contributed to more than  percent of the continents economic growth rate. Chinas direct investment in Africa has reached . billion, which is  times more than in . China has built over , kilometers of railroads and highways, nearly  ports and more than  large powergeneration stations throughout the continent. Some infrastructure projects that China helped build, such as the African Union Conference Center, the AsiaDjibouti Railway and the MombasaNairobi Railway, have become icons of the bilateral cooperation. The headquarters of the Africa Centres for Disease Control and Prevention that China will help construct is also expected to be a flagship project of the cooperation. China has helped to build over  healthcare facilities and more than  schools in Africa. It has also dispatched , medical teams to the continent. China and Africa also develop their cooperation at the grassroots and rural levels, with China creating tens of thousands of jobs on the continent. China has won minds and hearts in Africa because the cooperation really improves African peoples lives. Over the past  years, the FOCAC has set a benchmark for international cooperation with Africa and has made important contributions to the promotion of innovation of internationalcooperation mechanisms and mindset shifts. Many countries have followed in Chinas footsteps by initiating forums on cooperation with Africa and increasing investment in the continent. Consequently, Africas global status has been enhanced. The way the FOCAC is run and the values it upholds improve the environment for international cooperation with Africa. The forum fully embodies the spirit of mutual respect and fair consultation. China and Africa cochair and jointly organize the forum, which China and African countries host in turns. China follows a fivenos approach in its cooperation with Africa  no interference in the development paths of individual countries no interference in their internal affairs no imposition of Chinas will no attachment of political strings regarding assistance and no seeking of selfish political gains in investment and financing cooperation. China appreciated support from the African Union and African countries when it faced the hardest period during its fight against the novel coronavirus epidemic. The African Union was the first international organization to support China in its fight against COVID. After the outbreak reached Africa, the two sides promptly changed their cooperation agenda. They took advantage of the forums resources to help Africa battle the epidemic, stabilize African economies and ensure African peoples safety. China has promised that the vaccines it is developing will be made a global public good and provided to other developing countries on a priority basis. China has further extended debt relief to countries hit hard by the pandemic in response to the Gs initiative on debt relief for developing countries. China and Africa now need to work out postpandemic cooperation strategies. It is necessary to deepen and strengthen cooperation in areas such as infrastructure, trade and investment under the framework of the forum. They also need to find new cooperation projects as China supports Africa in establishing a free trade zone and developing digital economies, ecommerce and G. The justconcluded Fifth Plenum of the th Central Committee of the Communist Party of China came up with specific economic and social development goals for the th FiveYear Plan period  and longterm goals for up to . This sends an important signal that China is entering a new stage of development, implementing new development mindsets and building a new development pattern. The blueprint for Chinas new journey to realize the Chinese dream is not only vital to the wellbeing of the . billion Chinese people, but also brings more opportunities to the rest of the world. The author is ambassador of the Mission of China to the African Union.