Chinese vaccine candidates praised
2020-11-13 07:47
A staff member takes out samples of the COVID inactivated vaccine at a vaccine production plant of Sinopharm in Beijing, on April , . PhotoXinhua    Two Chinese COVID vaccine candidates undergoing thirdstage clinical trials in parts of West Asia, North Africa and South America have won support and recognition from highranking foreign officials as the trials draw to a close. China National Pharmaceutical Group, also known as Sinopharm, said thirdphase human trials for its two inactivated vaccines are progressing smoothly in a handful of countries including the United Arab Emirates, Bahrain, Egypt and Peru, and trial results from the ,plus participants are better than expected. More than , volunteers have been vaccinated, and the sample population covers  different nationalities, the company said in a post on its WeChat instantmessaging account on Wednesday. Many senior political officials have provided strong support to us and took the lead in being injected with the experimental vaccines, it said. They also expressed full confidence in the safety, efficacy and ongoing trials of vaccines developed by Sinopharm. Among the highprofile volunteers is Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid AlMaktoum, prime minister of the UAE. He posted a picture of him receiving a Chinesemade vaccine on Nov  on Twitter. We wish everyone safety and great health, and we are proud of our teams, who have worked relentlessly to make the vaccine available in the UAE, he said in the post. More than  highranking UAE officials, including its ministers of health, foreign affairs and cabinet affairs, had previously been inoculated with Chinesemade COVID vaccines, Sinopharm said. In Bahrain, Crown Prince Salman bin Hamad Al Khalifa was vaccinated on Sept , joining a growing pool of volunteers including several health officials and an adviser to the crown prince, Sinopharm said. Hala Zayed, Egypts minister of health, was inoculated on Sept . She encouraged Egyptians to actively participate in the clinical trials and praised Sinopharm for its contributions to the global fight against the virus, the company said. As the thirdphase trials in foreign countries are nearing a close, Sinopharm reiterated its determination to ensure its vaccines safety by strictly abiding by vaccine development procedures and not omitting any steps. Liu Jingzhen, chairman of Sinopharm, said during a forum in Shanghai last week that its inactivated vaccines have obtained emergency use approval from China, the UAE and Bahrain.