Minks get reprieve in Danish cull pause
2020-11-12 10:23
Workers disinfect a truck as Danish authorities dispose of dead minks in a military area near Holstebro on Monday.MORTEN STRICKERAFP    Denmark on Tuesday revised an order that would have seen all of the countrys  million minks culled on fears the animals are hastening the spread of the coronavirus. The government realized it has no legal authority to carry out the order. Instead, the government changed its position to recommend that farmers kill all minks to curb the spread of coronavirus. The government is putting forward new legislation for a mass culling. It normally takes  days to pass a new bill. The Nordic country issued the order last week to kill all minks after it found out those infected with coronavirus are transmitting the virus with mutations back to people. Denmark is the first country where the virus was found transmitting itself back to human beings from the animal population. A report by the World Health Organization said that since June,  human cases of COVID have been identified in Denmark with COVID variants associated with farmed minks, including  cases with a unique variant reported on Nov . The cases involved people ranging from  to  years old. The WHO report said the initial observations suggest the clinical presentation, severity and transmission among those infected are similar to that of other circulating coronaviruses. However, the new variant, referred to as cluster , has a combination of mutations that have not been previously observed. On Nov , Denmark announced a strict new lockdown in the northern part of the country, where most mink farms are located. Danish officials said  mink farms out of  were infected with coronavirus. WHO said the new variant identified in both minks and the  human cases has moderately decreased sensitivity to neutralizing antibodies. This could pose a potential risk to the effectiveness of future COVID vaccines. The WHO said further scientific and laboratory studies are required to verify the preliminary findings reported and to understand any potential implications of this finding in terms of diagnostics, therapeutics and vaccines in development. According to the WHO, it remains a concern when any animal virus spills into the human population, or when an animal population could contribute to amplifying and spreading a virus. Widespread testing Besides a strict lockdown and culling minks, Denmark will also conduct widespread testing of people living in affected areas and increased genomic sequencing of SARSCoV viruses across the country. CNN reported the UK banned travelers from Denmark due to the outbreak on Nov . UK citizens and visa holders will be able to return but will have to be quarantined for  days. A report in The Guardian said  mink farms have identified the presence of COVID in Sweden, which neighbors Denmark. So far Sweden has no plan to cull the minks. A report by the US Agriculture Department said the coronavirus was reported to have been transmitted from a human to a tiger in New York in April. Since then, there have been reports of minks, dogs and cats contracting coronavirus from humans.