Agency seeks improved response to health crises
2020-11-12 10:11
Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, director general of the World Health Organization attends the virtual rd World Health Assembly in Geneva, Switzerland, on May , . PhotoAgencies    The rd World Health Assembly is set to adopt a resolution this week to strengthen preparedness for health emergencies in a year when the COVID pandemic has killed more than . million people. The Committee A of the WHA concluded on Tuesday with a recommendation to the assembly to adopt the proposed resolution. The draft resolution renews the commitment to better prepare for health emergencies such as COVID, through full compliance with the  International Health Regulations, according to a statement by the World Health Organization. It urges the  member states to dedicate domestic investment and recurrent spending and public funding to health emergency preparedness and to improve government and decisionmaking processes and enhance institutional capacity and infrastructure for public health. The resolution, which will be considered on Friday, calls on the global health community to ensure all countries are equipped to detect and respond to cases of COVID and other infectious diseases. The WHA, which was held on May , resumed on Monday and will last until Saturday. WHO DirectorGeneral Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said on Tuesday experts are working on the origin of the novel coronavirus that caused COVID. These are excellent and respected professionals. And I know they will do their work professionally, he said. We will give them all the support they need. Tedros also reiterated the importance of building strong health systems at the national, regional and global level. In his opening remarks on Monday, Tedros called on member states to address the shocking and expanding imbalance between assessed contributions and voluntary, largely earmarked funds. Geopolitical divisions While describing the vaccine announced by Pfizer as encouraging, he warned a vaccine cannot address the global underinvestment in essential public health functions and resilient health systems. There is no vaccine for poverty, hunger, climate change or inequality, he said. Its time for the world to healfrom the ravages of this pandemic, and the geopolitical divisions that only drive us further into the chasm of an unhealthier, unsafer and unfairer future. On Monday, the session refused to include the socalled proposal of inviting Taiwan to attend the WHO as an observer in its provisional agenda. Chen Xu, Chinese ambassador to the UN in Geneva, condemned the move by a few countries. This proposal violates the purpose and principles of the UN Charter and rejects the oneChina principle that both UNGA UN General Assembly Resolution  and WHA Resolution . established. It is illegal and invalid, he said in a video statement to the WHA.