Steering SCO cooperation forward in challenging times
2020-11-11 09:30
Ships get ready for their voyages in the foreign trade container terminal of Qingdao port in Shandong province. Photo by Yu Fangping  For China Daily    A ChinaCentral Asia cargo train carrying tires, auto parts and electronic components left a ChinaSCO Shanghai Cooperation Organization demonstration zone in Chinas eastern port city of Qingdao Monday morning and is scheduled to arrive in Kazakhstan in  days. The cargo train service as well as the demonstration zone are part of the tangible legacy of the SCO Qingdao summit in , and have over the past two years contributed to the SCO members cause to make this regional bloc an even stronger powerhouse in terms of boosting common development, preserving collective security and stepping up exchanges in the region and beyond. To continue pushing forward the SCO cooperation, leaders of the member countries will convene on Tuesday via video link against the backdrop of a lingering coronavirus pandemic and multiple pressing global uncertainties. Founded in , the SCO set its primary mission as building mutual trust and boosting collective security, a vision in sharp contrast with the confrontational zerosum Cold War mentality. The SCOs bedrock principle, the Shanghai Spirit, featuring mutual trust, mutual benefit, equality, consultation, respect for cultural diversity and the pursuit of common development, has proved to be a banner for building a new type of international relations highlighting mutual respect, fairness and justice, and winwin cooperation in modern times. After  years of growth, the SCO now represents nearly half of the worlds population and over  percent of global gross domestic product. With a booming influence, it has developed into a constructive force in promoting world peace and development. Moreover, the organization has shown its unity when the COVID pandemic hit hard on the world earlier this year. The SCO members were able to help each other through this mechanism during the most difficult period of this outbreak. And with border control and other preventive measures, the spread of the virus has been put under control, while industrial as well as supply chains have been put back in order to a considerable extent. Looking into the future, more dynamic cooperation within the SCO framework is urgently needed as daunting challenges still lie ahead. First, the SCO members need to continue enhancing cooperation in public health governance as a second wave of the COVID pandemic is sweeping across the world. In the fields of information sharing, drug and vaccine development, and biosecurity, even stronger joint efforts are their best, and only, option for the sake of the common health of people in the region. Second, the SCO countries should consolidate their synergy in maintaining regional stability. Over the years, the SCO has attained impressive achievements in combating the three evil forces of terrorism, separatism and extremism, as well as in cracking down on crossborder and cyber crimes. To preserve the security and stability across the region, countries need to further consolidate political mutual trust. They should also support each other on issues involving their respective core interests, and continuously expand security cooperation. Third, members of the organization need to revitalize trade and investment, as well as to enhance openness and interconnectivity especially when the global economy is suffering from a massive pandemicinduced contraction. To rejuvenate global growth in the postpandemic era, the Belt and Road Initiative remains an effective cooperation framework. The aforementioned ChinaSCO cooperation hub in Qingdao is a good example. Besides, digitalized technologies, such as ecommerce, artificial intelligence, and online education, that have been widely applied in Chinas efforts to resume work and production, can also inject new impetus into building the Digital Silk Road across the region as part of the joint Belt and Road construction. As the SCO leaders are gathering for the online summit, they are facing a special task and a unique opportunity to reach new and broader consensus on strengthening allaround cooperation within the organization. The past almost two decades have proved the positive role the SCO can play in maintaining regional peace and stability and stimulating growth and development. The world community may justifiably have the confidence to expect steadfast and constructive contribution from the SCO at this critical juncture of the human history.