BioNTech revenues boosted by COVID vaccine programs
2020-11-11 05:13
Syringes are seen in front of a displayed Biontech logo in this illustration taken November , . PhotoAgencies    BERLIN, Nov.  Xinhua  German pharmaceutical company BioNTech SE announced on Tuesday that its revenues climbed to . million euros . million U.S. dollars in the first nine months of the year, compared with . million euros in the same period last year. The development of revenues was driven by new collaborations with U.S. company Pfizer and Chinas Fosun Pharma within the BNT vaccine program against COVID, according to the German company. We have initiated the first rolling regulatory submission processes for our COVID vaccine program in the EU European Union, the UK and Canada and we are continuing to work with our partners to scaleup production capacity to prepare for a potential global launch of our COVID vaccine, if approved, said Ugur Sahin, chief executive officer CEO of BioNTech, in a statement. In August, BioNTech and Chinas Fosun Group already started a Phase  study to evaluate safety and immunogenicity of the vaccine candidate in Chinese participants. BioNTech is expecting to start a Phase  clinical trial in China by the end of the year, once regulatory approval from Chinas National Medical Products Administration NMPA was granted. On Monday, BioNTech and Pfizer announced that their vaccine candidate showed more than  percent efficacy in protecting against COVID in volunteers with no proven previous SARSCoV infection. Furthermore, no serious side effects had been observed based on first interim results from the ongoing Phase  clinical study conducted by an external, independent Data Monitoring Committee DMC, according to a joint statement by the companies. Yesterdays announcement regarding the first interim analysis from our global Phase  trial for our COVID vaccine candidate, BNT, is a watershed moment for both our company and scientific innovation, stressed Sahin. BioNTech and Pfizer are planning to submit their potential COVID vaccine candidate for Emergency Use Authorization EUA to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration FDA in the third week of November. For the development of a COVID vaccine, BioNTech received  million euros from a special vaccine development program by the German government. The progress made by BioNTech and Pfizer was very encouraging, German Minister of Health Jens Spahn said during a press conference on Monday. Spahn emphasized that the European Commission had the mandate to negotiate with pharmaceutical companies at the European level. In a statement issued on Tuesday, the Commission said it will authorize on Wednesday a contract for up to  million doses of the vaccine developed by BioNTech and Pfizer.