NYS governor criticizes federal govt vaccination plan
2020-11-10 03:23
FILE PHOTO Governor of New York Andrew Cuomo speaks in the Manhattan borough of New York City, New York, US, October , . PhotoAgencies    NEW YORK  New York State Governor Andrew Cuomo on Monday once again criticized the federal governments COVID vaccination plan as flawed and expressed concern that some disadvantaged communities might be deprived of the opportunity to be vaccinated in time. Theyre going to take this vaccine and theyre going to go through the private mechanism through hospitals, through drug market chains, et cetera. Thats going to be slow and thats going to bypass the communities that we call health care deserts, he said. Why do we have such a disparity in the infection rate and the mortality rate in COVID? Because some communities dont have the same access to health care, the governor told Good Morning America on national television network ABC. The Trump administration denied COVID so they were never ready for it. There was no mobilization of the government, he added. Cuomo said that he has been talking to other governors across the nation on how to shape the Trump administrations vaccine plan to fix it or stop it before it does damage. During the past months, Cuomo has repeatedly slammed the federal governments vaccination endeavor and said that it has flaws. The National Governors Association, which he chairs, has sent letters to the Trump administration to press for explanation or improvement of its plan. The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services HHS and Department of Defense DoD in midSeptember released two documents outlining detailed strategy of the U.S. government to deliver COVID vaccine doses to the American people. The documents, developed by the HHS in coordination with the DoD and the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention CDC, provide a strategic distribution overview along with an interim playbook for state, tribal, territorial, and local public health programs and their partners on how to plan and operationalize a vaccination response to COVID. Vaccinations would start gradually among some segments of the population  such as health workers, other essential workers, and the more vulnerable  before eventually ramping up for distribution to all who want it, according to a Fox News report.