Australia begins production of Oxforddeveloped COVID vaccine
2020-11-09 10:27
FILE PHOTO Vials with a sticker reading, COVID  Coronavirus vaccine  Injection only and a medical syringe are seen in front of a displayed AstraZeneca logo in this illustration taken October , .PhotoAgencies    SYDNEY  Australia commenced locally manufacturing a COVID vaccine candidate developed by the University of Oxford from Monday, with roughly  million doses planned to be made. Despite still undergoing clinical trials, the vaccine, which was codeveloped by pharmaceutical company AstraZeneca, is considered one of the more promising vaccines globally. Australian biotech firm CSL has agreements with AstraZeneca and the Australian government to begin preemptive production of the vaccine, for release during the first half of  should remaining tests prove successful. We are undertaking these manufacturing activities atrisk and in parallel with the clinical trials and approvals processes in recognition of the significant urgency of the COVID pandemic, CSLs Chief Scientific Officer Andrew Nash said. It is expected the vaccine will require a twodose per person regime meaning it could be effectively administered to  million people. However, it will not be released for use until the development process is reviewed and approved by Australias government regulatory authority, the Therapeutic Goods Administration TGA. Production will take place at CSLs bioreactor facility in the State of Victoria, with the manufacturing process beginning by thawing vials containing vaccine cells which had been frozen under liquid nitrogen. After growing in the bioreactors, the vaccine is then filtered and purified leaving just the antigen, or vaccine product. It is then ready for final formulation and filling into dosage vials, the company said in a statement. CSL had already manufactured several doses of another COVID vaccine candidate developed by Australias University of Queensland UQ, which it is holding in readiness to progress to Phase b clinical trials. Further trials on the UQ vaccine candidate are due pending the release and review of Phase  clinical trial data.