CE seeks supports for HK economic revival
2020-11-06 16:25
Hong Kong Chief Executive Carrie Lam Cheng Yuetngor right side of the table, rd from right holds talks with Minister of Commerce Zhong Shan left side of the table, th from left in Beijing on Nov , . PHOTO  INFORMATION SERVICES DEPARTMENT, HKSAR GOVT    Hong Kong Chief Executive Carrie Lam Cheng Yuetngor on Wednesday canvassed support for the citys enterprises, cornered by the pandemic and US trade pressure, to further tap into the Chinese mainland market amid the nations new dual circulation economic pattern. On a grueling opening day of her threeday visit to Beijing, Lam, flanked by five bureau heads, met with officials of three ministries to garner support for Hong Kongs economic revival, which will be highlighted in her upcoming Policy Address at the end of November. Hong Kongs political pundits and business leaders expect Lams visit to bear fruit, allowing the city to further integrate into the nations development on all fronts. On Wednesday morning, Lam met with Commerce Minister Zhong Shan. Lam wants Hong Kong enterprises to be part of the motherlands new dual circulation economic strategy, which will see the nation strengthen its domestic economy amid mounting unilateralism and protectionism, and the COVID pandemic. The term refers to both the internal circulation of domestic economic activities and external circulation of the nations economic links with the outside world. She took note of the record  Hong Kong exhibitors registered for the  China International Import Expo, which starts on Thursday in Shanghai. That number is up  percent from last year. Merchants worldwide are among those pinning their hopes on the mainlands swift economic rebound from the pandemic to lift the global economic gloom. Lam also sought help from the Ministry of Science and Technology in unleashing Hong Kongs potential in innovation and technology by partnering up with its tech giant neighbor Shenzhen. While meeting Minister of Science and Technology Wang Zhigang in the afternoon, Lam expressed hope that the ministry will help in the citys COVID vaccine procurement. Lam put in a good word for Hong Kongs beleaguered aviation industry during her meeting with Director of the Civil Aviation Administration of China Feng Zhenglin, seeking aid to bolster the citys status as an international aviation hub and its role in building a worldclass airport cluster in the GuangdongHong KongMacao Greater Bay Area. Veteran political scientist Lau Siukai is optimistic about Lams trip. Lau, vicepresident of the Chinese Association of Hong Kong and Macao Studies, a leading Hong Kong affairs think tank, said he expects concrete measures on crossboundary financial markets to follow as a result of Lams trip. Lau said he expects the central government to play a bigger role in leading the city to a speedy economic recovery and further development, as signaled in the proposals for the th FiveYear Plan  for National Economic and Social Development and the LongRange Objectives Through the Year , which were unveiled on Tuesday. The proposals have emphasized Hong Kongs integration into the national development, particularly through the Bay Area and the Belt and Road Initiative. Noting that integrating into the nations development should be a priority for the city, Lam Lungon, Hong Kong deputy to the National Peoples Congress, said the Bay Area, one of the nations key initiatives, creates room for the trade hub to leverage its advantages. The businessman said the Bay Area also provides more opportunities for Hong Kong to make great strides in innovation and technology, as the mainland cities in the Bay Area such as Shenzhen have the capability to commercialize science and technology. Witman Hung Waiman, principal liaison officer for Hong Kong at the Shenzhen Qianhai Authority, said the proposals show that the central government cares about the two special administrative regions development. He expects to see more detailed housing, medical and study measures implemented, which will benefit Hong Kong residents living in the mainland cities within the Bay Area. After the threeday trip in Beijing, Lam will head to Guangzhou on Friday and meet officials of Guangdong province and Shenzhen separately on Saturday.