UK restricts exports of flu vaccines
2020-11-03 09:26
A man receives a flu vaccine at the drivethru flu vaccination centre, in Darlington, Britain, Sept , . PhotoAgencies    The United Kingdom government has placed export restrictions on influenza vaccines in order to protect the national stockpile during this years flu season that is expected to place further strain on health services amid the novel coronavirus pandemic. Global demand for flu shots has soared this year, as countries attempt to ease pressure on hospitals already contending with rising cases of COVID. The UK says trade restrictions are necessary if it is to reach its target of delivering  million flu shots this winter. We will always act to ensure that the medicines and vaccines destined for UK patients are protected and get to those who need them, Health Secretary Matt Hancock said. Several major pharmaceutical companies, including CVS, GlaxoSmithKline, AstraZeneca and Sanofihave committed to expanding flu vaccination programs in order to keep up with demand. GlaxoSmithKline will increase its flu vaccine supply to the United States by  percent this year, while during the summer major global supplier Sanofi said it aimed to increase vaccine production by  percent. In October, the National Health Commissions Disease Prevention and Control Bureau said that vaccine supply in China will likely double this flu season in order to meet demand. Hancock said the UK must protect supply ahead of this unprecedented winter and urged atrisk individuals to seek inoculation. The National Health Service flu vaccination program is well underway and its vital that if you are eligible for a free NHS flu vaccine you get one, Hancock said. In addition to concerns over hospital capacity, health experts are warning that coinfection of both flu and COVID may make illness more severe. Last month, researchers at the University of Liverpool found that symptoms in mice with coinfection of influenza virus and COVID were worse than the individual infections. Seasonal influenza virus can overwhelm the NHS in normal years, said Julian Hiscox, who is chair in infection and global health at Liverpool and coauthor on the study. Both SARSCoV and influenza are likely to cocirculate and present a risk. Our work shows how infection with both is dangerous and we can at least do something about mitigating the risk of flu through vaccination. A separate United Kingdom study released in September found that patients with coinfection had up to six times higher risk of death than the general population. The Royal College of General Practitioners wrote to Hancock last month seeking assurances that there would be enough vaccine to meet demand after doctors reported difficulty in securing enough shots. The UK has also placed export restrictions on dexamethasone, which is a steroid treatment linked to increased survival for patients with severe cases of COVID.The exportation of dexamethasone pills intended for the UK market was restricted in April, and export controls were placed on both injections and oral solutions of the drug in June. Dexamethasone is cheap and widely available, and UK trade restrictions are not expected to adversely impact access to the drug in other markets. Export of lopinavir, otherwise known as ritonavir, was also restricted this year. The antiviral drug is currently subject to a UK trial to test its effectiveness in stopping viral replication in the early stages of COVID infection.