Talent, teamwork speed vaccine effort
2020-11-03 07:07
A staff member takes out samples of the COVID inactivated vaccine at a vaccine production plant of Sinopharm in Beijing, on April , . PhotoXinhua    Chinas speedy COVID vaccine development is the result of drawing inspiration from past public health challenges, rapid but meticulous mobilization of talent and resources and rigorously upholding strict scientific and medical standards during every step of research, experts said. As of Oct , there were  vaccine candidates in human trials around the world,  of which were developed by China or with Chinese partners, according to the World Health Organization. China has four vaccine candidates in phase three clinical trials. These include three inactivated vaccines and an adenoviral vectorbased, or AdV, vaccine. Lu Shan, a member of Chinas COVID vaccine development task force, said the nations scientific community was swift to respond to the new public health threat, as evident from the Ministry of Science and Technology holding its first interdepartmental meeting on research on the pathogen on Jan . Many noted scientists, from those studying the origin of the virus to those who develop various types of vaccines, were present at the meeting, Lu told Science and Technology Daily, a newspaper operated by the ministry. New research projects and talent have been constantly incorporated into the research effort as scientists began to learn more about the virus, and a new projects funding often arrives on the same day it was approved, she added. Developing a vaccine has a high chance of failure, and we didnt know which technical route may yield a safe and effective vaccine, Lu said. But over the years, we have accumulated the talent and resources to try all five routes. The reason for that decision is to guarantee success. The five technical routes for vaccines are inactivated vaccines, attenuated influenza vaccines, the two nucleic acidbasedDNA and mRNAtypes of vaccines and adenoviral vectorbased vaccines. As of last month, all five routes had vaccines that had started or were ready to begin human trials soon, according to the National Medical Products Administration. Xu Penghui, a biotech researcher at the ministrys Department of Science and Technology for Social Development, said Chinas rapid progress in COVID vaccine development is rooted in the nations vast professional and administrative knowledge gained from creating new drugs and handling past public health risks. For years, we have been keeping a close eye on various research teams across the country. We know exactly who leads the research and what their accomplishments and their capabilities are, he said. When a new public threat arises, the ministry could act as a chief of staff for scientists and quickly mobilize researchers based on their specialties to jointly tackle the new challenge, he added. These research teams are also proactively communicating and collaborating with each other, sharing knowhow and ensuring better allocation of resources. For example, the ministry first tasked China National Biotec Group and Sinovac Biotech with creating the inactivated vaccine, but later a research team from the Institute of Medical Biology of the Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences joined the undertaking. The ministry also devoted dedicated staff to serve scientists basic research needs, such as procuring and transferring lab test animals as well as redirecting lab resources at the nations limited number of biosafety level  laboratories to support vaccine development. Bai He, an expert on biological products at the National Medical Products Administration, said China has a capable expert committee tasked with supervising every key step of vaccine development to ensure the research is conducted rigorously, which can reduce the time needed for correcting mistakes. If vaccine development is like driving a car, our researchers are pushing the accelerator, and the committee is at the steering wheel and correcting course if needed, she said. During an inspection of a biotech company in late March, experts discovered that the companys animal model experiment was poorly designed, so they provided advice for revisions on the spot and helped the company save at least two weeks of research time, Bai said. Yang Xiaoming, president of China National Biotec Group, told reporters in September that despite the global need and urgency for developing an effective vaccine, the company is prohibited from cutting corners on any research steps. Our core principle is not skipping a single step in the research and not lowering a single point in safety standards. Only on this basis can we go all out and seize every moment for research, he said. When the pandemic began, the company immediately allocated  billion yuan . million for vaccine development. Based on its resources and expertise, the company ultimately focused on creating inactivated and nucleic acidbased vaccines. Three of its subsidiaries doing research concurrently allowed the company to quickly overcome key challenges in vaccine development and production, he added. Progress in trials In the past few months, China has pledged to make a Chinese vaccine accessible to countries in Southeast Asia, Africa and Latin America. On Oct , China announced that it had joined the COVID Vaccines Global Access Facility, or COVAX, an initiative coled by the WHO that aims to promote equitable access to vaccines, especially for vulnerable people and healthcare workers in developing countries. Liu Jingzhen, chairman of China National Pharmaceutical Group Co, often called Sinopharm, the parent company of China National Biotec Group, said on Oct  that thirdstage clinical trials of its two inactivated vaccine candidates were being conducted in  foreign countries, including the United Arab Emirates, Jordan, Argentina, Egypt and Peru. The current feedback is very satisfactory and we have received wide recognition from the international community, Liu said. Eduardo Spitzer, scientific director of Laboratorio Elea Phoenix in Buenos Aires, told the journal Nature in early October that expectations of a successful Chinese vaccine are high in Argentina. Sinopharms largescale trials in the country began in September and received widespread media coverage, he added. Sao Paulos Butantan Institute, one of Brazils leading biomedical research centers, which is carrying out phase three tests of the inactivated vaccine made by Sinovac Biotech, said last week that the Chinese vaccine had been shown to be safe in tests involving , volunteers. The first results of the clinical study conducted in Brazil proved that among all the vaccines tested in the country, CoronaVac is the safest and the one with the best and most promising rates, Sao Paulo Governor Joao Doria told reporters regarding the companys vaccine. Promising prospects The Lancet, one of the worlds premier medical journals, published a commentary on Oct  calling the inactivated vaccine created by China National Biotec Group promising, but said more research is needed to check the vaccines effects on older and more medically vulnerable people, as well as in understanding the duration and strength of its protection. Existing clinical results show that the inactivated vaccine candidates from China are generally safe and are relatively better tolerated by recipients compared with other vaccines in latestage human trials, the journal Nature said in a study in late September. However, the Chinese vaccines efficacy is still unknown. Moreover, assuming the inactivated vaccines will require two doses per personthe same dosage used in the clinical trialsit will be a monumental task to distribute them globally, given that the supply of syringes, glass vials and related equipment might create a bottleneck, it said. It is very likely that AdVbased and inactivated vaccines produced in Chinaas well as other vaccine candidates produced in India and elsewherewill have a major role in satisfying the global demand for vaccines against SARSCoV, the study said.