China will further open up economy and strengthen global cooperation
2020-10-31 09:14
The Lujiazui area of Shanghai is home to major global financial organizations. Photo provided to China Daily    The official document issued after the conclusion of the Fifth Plenary Session of the th Communist Party of China Central Committee on Thursday should dispel any doubts about Chinas commitment to reform, openingup and global cooperation at a time when the United States has resorted to unilateralism and protectionism. To achieve its socioeconomic development goals during the th FiveYear Plan  period, China has vowed to pursue higherlevel openingup and explore new avenues of winwin international cooperation, including opening up more areas of its economy, further promoting trade and investment liberalization, and helping reform the global economic governance system. Its not surprising to see the document mention multiple times these commitments because they have played a key role in Chinas success story over the past four decades. That China has become the worlds largest trading country and the largest trade partner of more than  countries and regions is a testament to its openness and global cooperation. In Brussels where I am based, it was just announced that, according to Eurostat, China replaced the US to become the European Unions largest trade partner in the first seven months of this year. The potential for ChinaEU cooperation has greatly increased given that green growth has been listed as a top priority in the document. The new EU leadership also has high hopes of its ambitious Green Deal being a great success. EU leaders such as European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen have praised Chinas commitment to become carbon neutral by . And in a blog post on Oct , EU foreign policy chief Josep Borrell hailed Chinas pledge as a possible game changer for climate. Besides, the rd China International Import Expo to be held in Shanghai from Nov  to  will showcase both Chinas successful response to the novel coronavirus pandemic and its continued commitment to further open up its economy and deepen global cooperation. The United Nations Conference on Trade and Developments report on Tuesday that foreign direct investment in China remained relatively stable at  billion in the first half of this year while globally FDI fell by half shows investors confidence in the Chinese economy, despite the US ramping up its trade war, tech war and smear campaign against China. Foreignfunded companies, whose cumulative number exceeds  million, have played a critical role in Chinas economic growth, contributing to more than  percent of the countrys foreign trade in the past two decades. While senior US officials traveled to Asia this week to persuade countries to choose between Beijing and Washington, China remains focused on helping developing countries in Asia, Africa and Latin America build roads, bridges, railways, ports and power grids. The Chinaproposed Belt and Road Initiative has already helped many countries and regions improve connectivity and tap their huge development potential. Also, China has contributed to  percent of global economic growth for many years, and is likely to be the only major economy to achieve positive growth this year. Yet Chinas commitment to international cooperation goes far beyond trade and investment. For example, China is the largest contributor to the UN peacekeeping force among the five permanent members of the UN Security Council, and has declared that any COVID vaccines it develops will be made global public goods. Reform, openingup, and global cooperation have served China so well over the past four decades, and the country would stick to that path of development on its march toward a better future. The document, which charts Chinas course for the next  years, has made that crystal clear to the world. The author is chief of China Daily EU Bureau based in Brussels.