Trade ties with Africa continue to forge ahead
2021-10-09 07:17
Dr. Mai Osama IPC Manager holds vials of Chinas Sinovac COVID vaccine in the visual inspection unit of the Holding Company for Biological Products and Vaccines Vacsera in Cairo, Egypt Aug , . PhotoAgencies    Several African countries are reporting strengthening trade ties with China despite the effects of the COVID pandemic, according to the latest statistics. In Namibia, China has emerged as the main export market for the country in August, accounting for . percent of all goods exported. According to the Namibia Statistics Agency, the new figures indicated that China has overtaken South Africa for the top spot. Alex Shimuafeni, the statistician general of Namibia Statistics Agency, said on Wednesday that the countrys exports to China mainly comprised of copper, precious stones and nonmonetary gold. The August  trade figures show that exports rose by  percent monthonmonth and declined by  percent yearonyear. Copper had the largest share of all goods exported, accounting for  percent of total exports mainly destined for China, Spain, the Netherlands and France, Shimuafeni said. He added that the value of the countrys exports increased in August, growing by . percent to  million from its July level. Shimuafeni also noted that South Africa still remained Namibias largest source of imports. Coffee economy The Ethiopian Coffee and Tea Authority on Wednesday said China continued to be among the top  importers of Ethiopian coffee in August. Though Ethiopia planned to earn  million by exporting , tons of coffee and spices in August, its actual earnings reached  million with exporting , tons of both commodities, according to a press statement released by the authority. In June, Ethiopia launched an initiative to attract Chinese investors to join hands with local coffee roasters to add value to their products and increase direct coffee exports to China, with efforts seem to be bearing fruit. Statistics from China also showed great increases in trade between China and Africa despite the ongoing pandemic. Trade between China and Africa increased by . percent yearonyear in the first seven months of this year, and was valued at a record high of . billion, according to figures from Chinas Ministry of Commerce. A recent report by business networking forum Economist Corporate Network showed how these strengthening trade links between China and Africa are, in part, a result of Chinas favorable financial incentives offered to African jurisdictions. According to the BRI Beyond  report published by ECN,  of the poorest jurisdictions in Africa exported  percent of their goods to China with no tariffs and customs duties. The report also stated that Chinese companies have been increasingly supporting the construction of major economic zones in subSaharan Africa, including the ZambiaChina Economic and Trade Cooperation Zone, the Eastern Industrial Zone in Ethiopia and the ChinaNigeria free trade zone. Such investments have been helping to create jobs, develop local industries and facilitate trade. otiatochinadaily.com.cn