The th Five Year Plan Compass for Chinas continued success
2020-10-30 09:59
A photo shows the sunny day view of CBD area in downtown Beijing, capital of China. PhotoSipa    When I was growing up in Detroit in the s when it was the prosperous global automobile capital, parents told us to eat all our food because children in China were poor and hungry. And in , the year of Chinas first Five Year Plan    for economic and social development, poverty was indeed the norm. In , Chinas population was  million with its per capita GDP of . Today under the leadership of the Communist Party of China CPC that figure is , with a population of . billion. During the past  years, an astounding  million people have been lifted out of poverty. Despite the outbreak of COVID this year, Chinas first centennial goal of building a moderately prosperous socialist society in all respects is on track to being accomplished by yearend. This week the CPC Central Committee is meeting to finalize the th Five Year Plan    for approval by the National Peoples Congress next March. Chinas fiveyear plan FYP model is Chinas policy blueprint for mediumterm social and economic development. After being associated with China since , Ive seen for myself how FYPs have helped the CPC lead Chinas unprecedented development for seven decades. To me, the goaloriented discipline of FYPs is indeed the secret sauce in the recipe of Chinas continuing economic miracle. The FYPs are a multiyear collaborative process, now including online input from Chinese netizens, in which government officials, academic experts and other stakeholders discuss and debate Chinas near and longerterm future, successfully helping to guide the countrys development. Currently  and ironically, it seems  the United States, by contrast, expert advice is neither sought, nor welcomed, run solely by one person who doesnt even have a plan that stretches from one day to the next. To me it seems that in its time, every FYP is the most important and consequential one. The th FYP is no exception, and in some ways it truly is the most important. It is in fact Chinas finely tuned compass pointing toward achieving the secondcentennialgoalofbecoming a great, modern, socialist country by , with an intermediate goal at the midpoint of  for China to achieve its basic socialist modernization. Many countries around the world are currently experiencing a second wave of the coronavirus with caseloads exceeding that of the first. China, among major economies, has subdued the virus until it can be ultimately controlled by one of its vaccines, andor with those from the WHOs COVAX accelerator, in which China is the largest participating economy. Many still wonder, however, whether China, faced with muchdecreased global demand which in better times fueled its meteoric economic rise like many other fastdeveloping economies before it, will be stopped in its tracks by an unbalanced economy andor the middleincome trap. I think not. First, since , China has been engaging in an economic rebalancing via supplyside structural reforms to bring the supply side of Chinas economy into balance with its demand side to increase efficiency. The rebalancing is proceeding apace but will be further enhanced during the th FYP by the recently announced dual circulation strategy, which is the logical continuation of structural reform in line with recent international conditions. With its focus on increasing domestic demand while simultaneously promoting complementary external participation in Chinas massive economy under the framework of Chinas new Foreign Investment Law, I believe Chinas resultant economy will more advanced, efficient, open and sustainable. The socalled middle income trap is a stage of economic development where a fastdeveloping country quickly achieves a certain level of income but then stalls out and remains stuck at the same level because it cant progress from lowcost manufacturing into hightechnology industries. I firmly believe that the likelihood of this is minute because China has followed the leadership of the CPC and the rigorous discipline of its FYPs. Consequently, the country has invested prodigious amounts in RD in fields such as advanced manufacturing techniques, artificial intelligence, digitization, G and quantum computing. Its no accident that China is now a world leader in high tech because it is the world leader in research and development, having contributed  percentof all global RD spending growth since , compared with  percentfor the USand  percentfor the EU. Under its th FYP, China is wellpositioned for renewed greatness. Its a country with a rich history, a successful present and bright prospects for a prosperous future. The author is a senior fellow of the Beijing think tank Center for China and Globalization. The views dont necessarily reflect those of China Daily. If you have a specific expertise and would like to contribute to China Daily, please contact us at opinionchinadaily.com.cn , and commentchinadaily.com.cn