CE urges public to get flu shots early,  new virus cases reported
2020-10-29 13:45
Chief Executive Carrie Lam Cheng Yuetngor third left Chief Secretary for Administration Matthew Cheung Kinchung first left and Financial Secretary Paul Chan Mopo second right receive seasonal influenza vaccination on Oct , . PHOTO  HKSAR GOVT    HONG KONG  Chief Executive Carrie Lam Cheng Yuetngor on Wednesday urged members of the public to get vaccinated against the seasonal influenza as Hong Kong reported two new COVID cases, both imported. Lam received the seasonal influenza vaccination SIV and also called on the public to maintain good personal and environmental hygiene. With the COVID pandemic and the approaching winter influenza surge, the flu and COVID may possibly cause more severe conditions, Lam said. She noted that the SIV is one of the effective means to prevent influenza and its complications, as well as to reduce the risk of influenzarelated hospitalization and death. I appeal to the highrisk groups in particular to receive free SIV early in the public healthcare system through the Government Vaccination Programme in order to enhance personal protection, Lam said. Various vaccination schemes for  have been launched to provide free or subsidized SIV for eligible groups. As it takes about two weeks after vaccination for antibodies to develop in the body and provide protection against seasonal influenza viruses, the government appealed to the public to get vaccinated early. Meanwhile, the Centre for Health Protection CHP said the city had two new coronavirus cases on Wednesday, bringing the total number of confirmed cases to ,. According to the CHP, the two imported cases involved a yearold woman who returned from Indonesia and a yearold woman from India. There were a total of  confirmed COVID patients being treated in  public hospitals as of Wednesday, including  patients in critical condition, and four in serious condition, according to the Hospital Authority. The two new infections were reported a day after the government announced that, starting Friday, local restaurants can entertain six customers per table, up from four, while four people would be allowed per table at bars, up from two. However, the government said the ban on public gatherings of more than four people will remain in force. Speaking on a public radio program, Secretary of Food and Health Professor Sophia Chan Siuchiu dismissed claims that the decision was logically inconsistent, while stressing that different social distancing rules should not be relaxed at the same time. We will evaluate which measures could be eased first and which could be lifted later, said Chan. Speaking on the same program, David Hui Shucheong, a respiratory disease expert from the Chinese University of Hong Kong, said dining at restaurants is actually relatively riskier than involvement in outdoor activities. Hui, a member of the governments expert advisory group on COVID, suggested setting the same cap for both indoor and outdoor gatherings to avoid any confusion. The Leisure  Cultural Services Department LCSD on Tuesday announced that all public beaches will reopen on November . Deep Water Bay, Clear Water Bay Second, Silverstrand and Golden beaches will provide lifeguard services daily from am to pm after reopening until March, the LCSD said. Repulse Bay, Middle Bay, Stanley Main, Big Wave Bay and Silver Mine Bay beaches will reopen with lifeguard services from  am to  pm daily until November , it added. The LCSD said lifeguard services at the remaining  beaches will be suspended after reopening until March , . To ensure an appropriate distance between users of shower facilities and shower heads that are not within individual cubicles, such showers will be open but spaced at . meters apart, the LCSD said. The department emphasized that it will also step up cleaning work at the reopened beach facilities while barbecue sites in public beaches will remain closed, it added.