Chinas increasing scitech innovation capacity to benefit all
2020-10-29 10:20
A robot system is displayed at the th China Smart City and Intelligent Economy Expo in Ningbo, east Chinas Zhejiang Province, Sept. , . XinhuaHuang Zongzhi    China has been underscoring the key role of scitech innovation in its pursuit of highquality development. However, its scitech progress has also raised unnecessary anxiety among some Western politicians, largely out of their own prejudice. Now the world is closely watching the ongoing plenary session of the th Communist Party of China Central Committee, which will map out the countrys th FiveYear Plan  for economic and social development. Future scitech development strategy in the plan is also a big focus. Some hardliners in Washington fanfared that Chinas scitech innovation is a threat, an excuse that has been overused in recent years to serve their own political purposes. Under their manipulative influence, the U.S. government has attempted to block Chinese technology firms, such as Huawei, ByteDances TikTok app and Tencents WeChat app, accusing them of posing a national security threat. But its latest request on banning WeChat has been rejected by a U.S. appeals court. No matter what they try to preach, China will not slow down its scitech development pace. It has promised to bring its people a better life, and it has also pledged to continue to benefit the world, e.g. with advanced G networks, safe COVID vaccines and a cleaner environment. None of these benefits can be realized without scitech progress. China is always willing to share its opportunities and achievements. By accelerating innovation, it aims to create a better platform for international scitech cooperation. Nothing is more reassuring than the facts. Those who worry about Chinas future scitech innovation strategy can look at what China has done in the past five years. According to the Ministry of Science and Technology, China has built cooperative relations in the scitech field with  countries and regions, signed  intergovernmental agreements and joined more than  international organizations and multilateral mechanisms. China has also taken part in key international science programs and projects. It supports the development of the International Thermonuclear Experimental Reactor and the Square Kilometer Array. Within a scitech innovative action plan under the Belt and Road Initiative, the country has assisted more than , youth scientists from several countries to work in China, trained , people, launched the construction of  Belt and Road joint laboratories, built cooperative relations on scitech parks with eight countries, built five nationallevel technology transfer platforms and launched a SinoAfrican scitech innovation cooperation center. An increasing number of Chinese scientists and researchers have contributed to solving major global issues. To help fight the COVID pandemic, China shared its prevention and control experience with the international society by building an open scientific service platform, which has served  countries and regions and been downloaded more than  million times. It has pledged to develop COVID vaccines as a public good. It has also joined COVAX, an international initiative aimed at ensuring equitable global access to COVID vaccines, becoming the largest economy so far to support the initiative. China will further boost the development of basic research and high technologies in the future, which means deeper and wider cooperation opportunities. For example, the Chinese leadership has recently called for the strengthening of international cooperation in the field of quantum science and technology. The country has opened its planned space station to international payloads. There is no reason and no need to hold a hostile attitude toward Chinas scitech advancement. It would be a real pity if such hostility holds back international cooperation in this field, which would ultimately block the world from its deserved benefits.