Stocks, shares fall in Europe as virus flares
2020-10-28 09:34
A street cleaning operative walks past the London Stock Exchange Group building in the City of London financial district, Britain, March , . PhotoAgencies    Investors fear new lockdown measures will hurt some companies, close others Stock markets in Europe slipped further on Tuesday as investors reacted to nations implementing new lockdown measures to counter the resurgence of the novel coronavirus. An update from Europes largest software company SAP saw its share price plunge  percent. The German company warned that its customers, including many of the worlds largest corporations, were cutting costs on fears of more chaos ahead. The regionwide Stoxx  index lost . percent on Monday and a further . percent on Tuesday, and Germanys Dax index fell another . percent after dipping . percent on Monday as bluechip stocks saw heavy falls. Italy and Spain both reintroduced tougher social restrictions to control the COVID surge on Sunday. Spanish stock markets fell . percent and the Milan exchange in Italy closed down . percent. President Emmanuel Macron of France extended a curfew on major cities, and shares in Paris dropped . percent. Aviation and aerospace shares dragged down Londons FTSE  index, which lost . percent and shed . billion pounds . billion of value. RollsRoyce, whose earnings are tied to the number of hours its jet engines are in the air, lost . percent, and British Airways owner IAG lost . percent. The Daily Telegraph reported that banks, manufacturers, travel and leisure industries had all been hit by fears that strict new social rules will batter their profits and make recovery impossible. Germanys chancellor Angela Merkel, is planning a nationwide lockdown light that could force the closure of bars, restaurants and public events to slow down a second wave of infections, according to the Bild newspaper. Additional curbs in Europes largest economy will be decided on Wednesday, when Merkel will push for the measures in a meeting with the nations regional leaders. It comes as a scientific advisor to the French government said the country may be experiencing , new COVID cases per day, or twice the latest official figure. JeanFranois Delfraissy, who heads the scientific council, told RTL radio on Monday that there are probably more than , cases per day but maybe more. He said We estimate, on the scientific committee, that we are more in the region of , cases per day. The mayor of Liverpool has said he could support a move to place the city in northern England into a new harsher Tier  lockdown to halt the spread. Joe Anderson, a Labour politician, lost his own brother to the virus less than two weeks ago. He said he is not opposed to the introduction of tougher measures if necessary. The United Kingdom government is considering adding a fourth tier to the top of its current threelevel system, similar to the one operating in Scotland. Speaking on BBC Breakfast, Anderson said If anything was required to bring it down faster I would do that. British pharmacy chain Boots has announced that a COVID test that can provide a result in  minutes will be made available in its stores next month. The technology, developed by LumiraDx, analyses a nose swab sample, via a small, portable machine. The test will cost  pounds and is aimed at those not showing symptoms for peace of mind. Figures last week showed just . percent of people receive results within  hours through the UKs official testing system. The latest data from researchers working on the Oxford University COVID vaccine shows that it produces a strong immune response among the elderly. Findings showed similar responses across all age groups, in results that have been hailed as a milestone in the fight against the pandemic.