Ship cases spark alarm in Australia
2020-10-21 10:50
A woman walks past a tribute to healthcare workers outside a hospital in Melbourne on Tuesday, when the hardhit Victoria state recorded just one more COVID case.WILLIAM WESTAFP    Evacuation of crew highlights risks, while Europe struggles against surge SYDNEYAustralian officials were evacuating workers from a Kuwaitiflagged livestock ship docked off the countrys west coast on Tuesday after at least half the  crew tested positive for COVID. The cluster of cases is the fourth outbreak detected on board a ship arriving at a Western Australia port over the past month, in a state that has otherwise been free of the coronavirus for weeks. It is becoming clear that ships arriving with COVID on board is one of the weakest links and the biggest risk to our way of life in Western Australia, state Premier Mark McGowan told reporters in Perth. The workers, from a number of countries, were taken from the Al Messilah ship directly into hotel quarantine, leaving just a skeleton staff on board the ship, officials said. The ship, which belongs to Kuwaiti livestock exporter Al Mawashi, arrived in Perth last week, carrying a crew aged between  and . In Europe, where concerns over a second wave of coronavirus infections are growing, French first lady Brigitte Macron is selfisolating for seven days after coming into contact with someone diagnosed with COVID, the office of President Emmanuel Macron said on Monday. Brigitte Macron was in contact on Thursday, Oct , with a person who has been tested positive for COVID this Monday, Oct , and showing symptoms of the disease, it said in a statement. France reported a massive increase in the number of people hospitalized with COVID on Monday, while also becoming the eighth country to report more than , cases since the start of the outbreak. The daily data showed the partial curfew imposed on nine major cities, including Paris, since Saturday, has yet to yield some results. Experts say it takes two weeks on average for containment measures to show their effectiveness. During the countrys national lockdown put in place between March  and May , hospitalizations kept rising until April . Health authorities reported on Tuesday , new infections over the latest hour period, sharply down from Saturdays record of , and Sundays tally of ,. UK researchers are preparing to begin a controversial experiment that will infect healthy volunteers with the coronavirus to study the disease in hopes of speeding up the development of a vaccine. Challenge study The approach, called a challenge study, is risky but proponents say it may produce results faster than standard research, which waits to see if volunteers who have been given an experimental treatment get sick. Imperial College London said on Tuesday that the study, involving healthy volunteers between the ages of  and , would be conducted in partnership with the Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy, the Royal Free London NHS Foundation Trust and hVivo, a company that has experience conducting testing. Professor Peter Openshaw, coinvestigator on the study, said Deliberately infecting volunteers with a known human pathogen is never undertaken lightly. However, such studies are enormously informative about a disease, even one so well studied as COVID. In the first phase, researchers will aim to determine the smallest level of exposure needed to cause the disease. Researchers will then use the same challenge model to study how potential vaccines work in the body, the bodies immune response and potential treatments. Globally, there were ,, confirmed coronavirus cases and ,, deaths as of Tuesday afternoon, according to a tally kept by the Johns Hopkins University in the United States. Argentina became the fifth country to hit  million cases of COVID on Monday, after the United States, India, Brazil and Russia, a tally by Johns Hopkins University said. It is only the second Latin American to have done so. Argentina was under quarantine by a presidential decree from March  to Oct  to curb the spread of the pandemic, with only industrial and business activities permitted. Argentina reported , new COVID cases in the latest hour period, taking the national count to ,,, the health ministry said on Monday. Xinhua Agencies