Russia to share trial data from Sputnik volunteers
2020-10-21 09:58
Bottles with Russias SputnikV vaccine against the coronavirus disease COVID are seen before inoculation at a clinic in Tver, Russia, Oct , . PhotoAgencies    MOSCOWGENEVAPreliminary results from the latestage human trial of Russias main coronavirus vaccine candidate could include data from , to , participants, Denis Logunov, a director at the Gamaleya Institute that developed the vaccine, said on Monday. Russias plan to publish preliminary data on the Sputnik V jab as early as November is likely to make it one of the first vaccine developers to share any data from a final stage trial, known as Phase III. The Sputnik V trial, involving , volunteers, has been underway in Moscow since the beginning of September. Interim results, when published, will be based on the first  days of monitoring participants, Gamaleya developers said last month. Two dozen clinics in Moscow have been racing to administer the vaccine to volunteers, but only around , people have received the first dose of the two shots so far. There is then a day wait until the second dose can be administered. At least  million doses of Sputnik V are expected to be manufactured in India. It will also be produced in Brazil, South Korea and China, Russias sovereign wealth fund, responsible for marketing the vaccine globally, said on Monday. In Brazil, an experimental vaccine developed by Chinas Sinovac Biotech appeared to be safe in a latestage clinical trial, preliminary results showed on Monday. Sao Paulos Butantan Institute, one of Brazils leading biomedical research centers, which is carrying out the Phase III tests, said the twodose vaccine, called CoronaVac, proved to be safe in a trial so far involving , volunteers. International initiative More than  countries and economies have now joined COVAX, an international initiative coled by the World Health Organization and partners to ensure effective and equitable global access to COVID vaccines, the WHOs chief announced on Monday. COVAX represents the largest portfolio of potential COVID vaccines and the most effective way to share safe and effective vaccines equitably across the world, WHO DirectorGeneral Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said at a virtual news conference. Equitably sharing vaccines is the fastest way to safeguard highrisk communities, stabilize health systems and drive a truly global economic recovery. China has joined COVAX, a move described by Chinese Foreign Ministry as an important step to uphold the concept of a shared community of health for all and to honor its commitment to turning COVID vaccines into a global public good. Agencies  Xinhua