WHO set to vaccinate  pct population of every country against COVID by end
2021-10-08 07:23
Bridgette Melo, , reacts as she holds the hand of her father, Jim Melo, during her inoculation of one of two reduced  ug doses of the Pfizer BioNtech COVID vaccine during a trial at Duke University in Durham, North Carolina September ,  in a still image from video. PhotoAgencies    GENEVA  The World Health Organization WHO announced on Thursday an initiative to vaccinate  percent of the population of every country against COVID by the end of  and  percent by mid, by prioritizing vaccine delivery to lowincome countries, particularly those in Africa. Today, WHO is launching the Strategy to Achieve Global COVID Vaccination by mid, said WHO DirectorGeneral Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus at a press briefing. The strategy outlines the road we must all take together to achieve our targets of vaccinating  percent of the population of every country by the end of this year, and  percent by the middle of next year. According to Tedros, achieving these targets will require at least  billion vaccine doses, which is an allocation problem instead of a supply problem. With global vaccine production now at nearly . billion doses per month, there is enough supply to achieve our targets, provided they are distributed equitably, he said. According to WHOs records, more than . billion vaccine doses have now been administered globally, and almost onethird of the worlds population is fully vaccinated against COVID. However, lowincome countries have received less than half of one percent of the worlds vaccines. In Africa, less than five percent of people are fully vaccinated. Earlier this year, WHO set a target for all countries to vaccinate ten percent of their populations by the end of September, but  countries didnt make it. That has prompted UN SecretaryGeneral Antonio Guterres to join the WHO chief to launch the latest strategy. Vaccine inequality is the best ally of the COVID pandemic, said Guterres, but through dose sharing, swaps, technology transfers and other priority actions, it is possible to reduce deaths and minimize suffering, prevent health systems from being overwhelmed, resume social and economic activities, and reduce the risk of dangerous new variants. The UN chief also renewed his appeal to G for help, adding that their meeting later this month will be an opportunity to deliver. I urge all global stakeholders to step up, mobilize their resources and turn this strategy into a reality, he said.