, overseas volunteers test experimental domestic COVID vaccines
2020-10-20 16:01
A staff member takes out samples of the COVID inactivated vaccine at a vaccine production plant of Sinopharm in Beijing, on April , . PhotoXinhua    Four domestic COVID experimental vaccines undergoing thirdstage clinical trials overseas have inoculated about , volunteers, an official with the Ministry of Science and Technology said on Tuesday. Tian Baoguo, deputy head of the ministrys Department of Science and Technology for Social Development, said no severe adverse reaction has been reported among them and preliminary trial results show that these vaccine candidates are safe. A total of  COVID experimental vaccines developed by Chinese scientists have entered human trials, Tian said. The third stage of clinical trials are the most significant phase to validate a potential vaccines safety and efficiency. With the novel coronavirus being brought under control in China, the country has decided to launch thirdstage trials in foreign countries where the virus is still spreading, according to Tian. The next step is to abide by sciencebased rules and comply with relevant rules and regulations, and to actively advance the development of vaccines, he said. Liu Jingzhen, chairman of the China National Pharmaceutical Group Co, or Sinopharm, said two inactivated vaccine candidates developed by the institution are going through thirdstage clinical trials in  foreign countries, including the United Arab Emirates, Argentina, Egypt and Peru, involving over , volunteers. Previously, the first and second phases of clinical trials for the two vaccines, which were conducted in China, had enrolled , volunteers and triggered effective immune response in all of them while ensuring safety. In total, about , people of  different nationalities have been vaccinated with these two candidates, yielding positive feedback from the international community, according to Liu. Dozens of countries also have made requests to buy vaccines from us, he said. Meanwhile, two certified Sinopharm plants in Beijing and Wuhan, Central Chinas Hubei province, have completed construction and are ready for largescale manufacturing. Annual production capability is expected to reach over  billion shots, and sufficient and safe supplies of vaccines are guaranteed, he said.