Italy passes  draft budget worth b euros
2020-10-18 22:06
Entertainment workers gather outside the Duomo cathedral in Milan on Oct  to protest against the Italian governments policies in response to the coronavirus. CLAUDIO FURLANASSOCIATED PRESS    ROME  The Italian cabinet early on Sunday passed the  draft budget, which includes an extension of the scheme to support workers in temporary layoff due to the coronavirus emergency. Overall, the budget is worth some  billion euros . billion, as the government heavily relies on stimulus measures to help the economy cope with the impact of the pandemic. Originally scheduled to be expired by midNovember, the scheme allowing public funding for workers in temporary redundancy due to COVID will be extended into some  weeks in . This operation will be covered with some  billion euros . billion. The cabinet also confirmed a percent cut in social contribution payments for companies in the lessdevelopment southern regions that will make new hiring next year. This same tax break will apply for three years to firms with an employment under  across the whole country. All of the companies benefitting from these COVIDrelated supportive measures  worth about . billion euros  would be prevented from making layoff. A separate cabinet provision will follow in the next days in order to make them immediately enforceable. Another  billion euros is set aside for the productive sectors most affected by the coronavirus pandemic in Italy, such as tourism, catering, or cultural activities. Four billion euros is allocated to the public health system next year, and will be partially used to confirm , doctors and nurses hired under fixedterm contracts in . Within such resources, some  million euros will be put aside in a specific fund for the purchase of vaccines against the coronavirus. Among other measures, about  billion euros is allocated to financially support families with children, who would receive a single yearly payment comprising all previous help measures from July  on. When fully operational, this provision would cost  billion euros, according to the cabinets estimates. At fiscal level, the  budget introduces some changes in the current system, including a tax wedge cut for incomes above , euros at the cost of some  billion euros annually. Public schools and universities will receive . billion euros for the recruitment of some , special needs teachers, and . billion euros for infrastructures. Italys gross domestic product GDP dropped by  percent in the second quarter of  compared to the previous quarter, the National Institute of Statistics ISTAT stated. For the whole , it is expected to contract by . percent due to the pandemic. Yet, ISTAT forecast a .percent recovery in . The budget was drafted as the world is struggling to control the pandemic, with countries across the globe  among them European Union EU member states, China, Russia, the United Kingdom and the United States racing to find a vaccine. The  budget will be sent to the European Commission for review, as it is due for all of the blocs member states. The EU executive branch will assess the national budgets to see if they were consistent with European fiscal rules, and might suggest amendments. After this passage, Italys  budget must receive final approval by the parliament by Dec .