UK will prepare to embrace notrade deal with EU PM
2020-10-16 21:31
Britains Prime Minister Boris Johnson in London, Britain Oct , . PhotoAgencies    LONDON  British Prime Minister Boris Johnson said Friday that as the European Union EU Summit in Brussels refused to offer London a Canadastyle deal, Britain will prepare to embrace a notrade deal scenario. Johnson made the response following the EU Summit discussions on Brexit Thursday. EUs chief Brexit negotiator Michel Barnier said he will continue intensive talks in the coming weeks and the EU hopes to reach a deal with Britain, but not at any price. Johnson said Britain wanted nothing more complicated than a Canadastyle relationship. But to judge by the latest EU summit in Brussels, that wont work for the EU because they want the continued ability to control Britains legislative freedom and fisheries. And given that they have refused to negotiate seriously for much of the last few months, and given that this summit appears explicitly to rule out a Canadastyle deal, I have concluded that we should get ready for Jan   with arrangements that are more like Australias based on simple principles of global free trade, the prime minister said. The Australiastyle arrangement is an euphemism for failure to reach a free trade agreement with the EU, which means the BritainEU trade will fall back on World Trade Organization WTO rules in . He called on British businesses, hauliers and travelers to get ready since there are only  weeks until the end of the transition period due on Dec , . Johnson said Britain is willing to discuss the practicalities with the EU where a lot of progress has already been made, on such issues as social security, aviation, nuclear cooperation and so on. But for whatever reason it is clear from the summit that after more than  years of membership they are not willing  unless there is some fundamental change of approach  to offer this country the same terms as Canada, he said. He said Britain will prepare to embrace the Australiastyle arrangement with complete confidence, adding that Britain will prosper mightily as an independent free trading nation, controlling its own borders, fisheries, and setting its own laws. Prior to the EU Summit, Johnson held a telephone conversation with French President Emmanuel Macron. Both leaders had said an agreement needs to be struck in October to ensure there is enough time for ratification. Meanwhile, Johnson and Macron also discussed the coronavirus crisis in their bilateral discussions as a sharp rise in COVID infections was reported in their countries. The discussion took place at a time when Britain, China, France, Russia and the United States are racing against time to develop coronavirus vaccines to check the spread of the virus in the world. Britain and the EU started their lengthy and bumpy postBrexit talks in March after Britain ended its EU membership on Jan , trying to secure a future trade deal before the Brexit transition period expires at the end of the year.