Indian PM holds review meeting of COVID research, vaccine development
2020-10-16 10:33
Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi PhotoAgencies    NEW DELHI  Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi Thursday held a review meeting of the research and vaccine deployment ecosystem against the ongoing COVID pandemic, officials said. Modi took stock of health ministrys comprehensive distribution and delivery mechanism for vaccines, which includes mechanisms for adequate procurement, and technologies for bulkstockpiling, filling vials for distribution and ensuring effective delivery. The Prime Minister directed that both serosurveys and testing must be scaled up. He said that the facility to get tested regularly, speedily and inexpensively must be available to all at the earliest, a statement issued by Prime Ministers Office said. The meeting was attended by federal health minister Harsh Vardhan, member health of governments top policy think tank  National Institution for Transforming India NITI  Aayog commission, principal scientific advisor, senior scientists and other officials. The prime minister said his government would provide full support towards the development of the vaccines. The Prime Minister also underscored the need for continuous and rigorous scientific testing and validation of traditional medicine treatments. He appreciated the efforts of Ministry of AYUSH Ayurveda, Yoga  Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha and Homoeopathy for conducting evidencebased research and providing a reliable solution in this difficult time, the PMO said. Modi said the country was resolved to provide costeffective, easily available and scalable solutions for testing, vaccine and medication, not only for India but for the entire world. He, however, said vigilance should be kept up against the pandemic. Indias federal health minister recently said COVID vaccine would likely be available in India by early next year. On Thursday morning , new COVID cases and  related deaths were recorded in the country during the past  hours, which has pushed the countrys COVID tally to ,, including , deaths.