CDC projects up to , COVID deaths in US by Nov
2020-10-16 09:23
Emergency Medical Technicians EMT leave with a patient at Hialeah Hospital where the coronavirus disease COVID patients are treated, in Hialeah, Florida, US, July , . PhotoAgencies    WASHINGTON  A new ensemble forecast published by the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention CDC on Thursday projects up to , COVID deaths in the United States by Nov . The new national ensemble forecast predicts that , to , new COVID deaths will likely be reported during the week ending Nov , and a total of , to , COVID deaths will be reported by that date. The state and territorylevel ensemble forecasts predict that over the next  weeks, the number of newly reported deaths per week may increase in three jurisdictions and decrease in one jurisdiction, said the projection. Trends in numbers of future reported deaths are uncertain or predicted to remain stable in the other states and territories, said the projection. Much of the United States continues to report an upward trend in COVID cases, with , new confirmed cases and  new deaths reported nationwide on Wednesday alone, according to data updated Thursday by the CDC. Daily new confirmed cases have been surpassing , since Oct , CDC data show, with cases over , five times since last week. As of Thursday morning, the nation was averaging , new cases a day, up  percent from the previous week, according to a report of CNN. Thirtyfive states are showing increases in new COVID cases greater than  percent over the last week compared to the week prior, said the report. Since Sunday,  states have hit their peak sevenday average of new cases since the pandemic began, according to Johns Hopkins University data. Many states have seen surge of cases recently, and young people account for much of new infections, Zhang Zuofeng, a professor of epidemiology and associate dean for research with the school of public health at University of California, Los Angeles, told Xinhua on Thursday. This could be related to the resuming of schools and businesses and increasing gatherings, Zhang said. Health experts are concerned about surge of cases in fall and winter as cooler months would drive people indoors and help the virus spread. Zhang urged the public especially the elderly people to get flu vaccines to protect themselves from flu amid the pandemic. Months into the pandemic, the United States has recorded more than ,, confirmed COVID cases and over , deaths as of Thursday evening, according to the realtime count kept by Johns Hopkins University.