China has essential role in COVID vaccine
2020-10-14 11:33
The whole world is facing a terrible pandemic. COVID may not be the most fatal virus of all time, but due to its extremely contagious nature it has affected the whole world. Lifestyles, habits, traditions and customs have changed due to social distancing, and the global economy has suffered a lot. Some countries have suffered more than others, but none can claim zero impact from the pandemic. Global efforts to invent a suitable vaccine through RD are stepping up and creating healthy completion, but nations are also collaborating to achieve success. The COVID pandemic still poses a severe threat to the safety and health of people in all countries. China continues to focus on safeguarding that developing countries have equal and easy access to suitable, safe, and effective vaccines. To that end, China has pledged to make vaccines developed and deployed by China a global public good and ensure early access for developing countries. By joining COVAX, a global collaboration for the manufacture and distribution of vaccines to the coronavirus, it is taking a tangible step to ensure access to vaccines, especially to developing and underdeveloped countries. China will continue to work with all sides to contribute its due share to the global fight against the pandemic to safeguard the safety and health of all. In fact, China has won its war against the pandemic and has already resumed normal life. China took strict measures to defeat COVID and utilized all possible available resources to do so. Due to its strong will, tireless efforts and effective policy measures, China has come out of danger. Now China is helping other nations overcome the pandemic. The Chinese experience has become essential. A Chinesedeveloped vaccine is not only under the trial stage in China, but also in other friendly countries like Pakistan. Patient feedback has been encouraging, but China is a responsible nation and will not commercialize a treatment unless safety is without doubt. China has had many ups and downs throughout its history. It knows the pains of developing and being part of the underdeveloped world. It is willing to contribute its due share in safeguarding humanity from the pandemic and uphold multilateralism. By joining COVAX, China has expressed its intentions to sharing its global responsibility. The author is a sinologist and exdiplomat.The opinions expressed here are those of the writer and do not necessarily represent the views of China Daily and China Daily website. If you have a specific expertise and would like to contribute to China Daily, please contact us at opinionchinadaily.com.cn , and commentchinadaily.com.cn