Johnson  Johnson pauses COVID vaccine trial over patient illness
2020-10-13 14:04
WASHINGTON  US pharmaceutical company Johnson  Johnson said Monday it had paused its COVID vaccine trial because one of its participants had become sick. We have temporarily paused further dosing in all our COVID vaccine candidate clinical trials, including the Phase  ENSEMBLE trial, due to an unexplained illness in a study participant, the company said in a statement. The patients condition was being reviewed and evaluated by the ENSEMBLE independent Data Safety Monitoring Board as well as internal clinical and safety physicians, it said. There are prespecified guidelines for all clinical studies, said the company. These ensure studies may be paused if an unexpected serious adverse event SAE that might be related to a vaccine or study drug is reported, so there can be a careful review of all of the medical information before deciding whether to restart the study. Johnson  Johnson said SAEs are not uncommon in clinical trials, and the number of SAEs can reasonably be expected to increase in trials involving large numbers of participants. As many trials are placebocontrolled, it is not always immediately apparent whether a participant received a study treatment or a placebo, according to the company. The phase  clinical trial of Johnson  Johnsons COVID vaccine started on Sept . The trial is designed to evaluate if the vaccine candidate could prevent symptomatic COVID after a single dose regimen. Up to , volunteers are scheduled to be enrolled in the trial at up to nearly  clinical research sites in the United States and internationally. It is the fourth largescale phase  clinical trials for a COVID vaccine in the United States. The other three trials are for vaccine candidate AZD, coinvented by the University of Oxford and its spinout company Vaccitech vaccine candidate mRNA, developed by the US National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases and American biotechnology company Moderna and vaccine candidate BNTb, developed by American biopharmaceutical company Pfizer and German company BioNTech. Johnson  Johnsons vaccine wing Janssen is responsible for developing the shot. While the other vaccine candidates require two doses, the Janssen vaccine candidate will be studied as a singledose vaccine. It is a recombinant vector vaccine that uses a human adenovirus to express the SARSCoV spike protein in cells.