TB injection may help curb COVID
2020-10-12 09:57
A medical researcher studying the BCG vaccine for tuberculosis examines test samples in a laboratory in Cape Town, South Africa, May , . PhotoAgencies    Scientists hope jab developed in  triggers immune response A vaccine that was developed in  to fight the infectious lung disease tuberculosis is being studied to see if it offers protection against COVID. For many decades, the vaccine,which is called BCG, was given to children in the United Kingdom and it has long been thought to trigger wideranging changes in the immune system. Scientists are now studying whether it offers protection against COVID and have launched a trial involving , people in the UK, led by the University of Exeter. The BBC said many people in Britain had the jab as children but the experts do not believe it offers protection into adulthood so, if it is effective in protecting against COVID, they will need booster inoculations. John Campbell, a professor in the University of Exeters medical school, told the broadcaster This could be of major importance globally. Whilst we dont think the protection will be specific to Covid,it has the potential to buy several years of time for the Covid vaccines to come through and perhaps other treatments to be developed. Previous studies found BCG reduced deaths by  percent in GuineaBissau by limiting the number of people with pneumonia and sepsis. And studies in South Africa recorded a  percent fall in nose,throat, and lung infections among people who had the jab. Most people receiving the injection in the study will be health workers and care home employees. Scientists hope the vaccine will reduce the severity of symptoms and the number of deaths at a time when COVID cases are growing at breakneck speed in the UK, a situation that led one expert to describe the nation as being at a tipping point. Jonathan VanTam, Englands deputy chief medical officer, said in a statement on Sunday that the colder, darker months ahead will make it harder to contain the disease because people will spend less time outdoors. He said people must respond by maintaining hygiene and social distancing. VanTam said the virus has flared recently among young people and is spreading to older age groups. Sadly, just as night follows day,increases in deaths will now follow on in the next few weeks, he added. There were , new cases of novel coronavirus in the UK on Saturday, a sharp rise from the , new cases on Friday. And the UK is now thought to have an R number of between . and ., which means each infected person is infecting around one and a half others, confirming the outbreak is growing. The nations prime minister is expected to unveil new measures on Monday to counter this. With the virus gathering momentum, the queen attempted to boost morale by honoring people who have been battling COVID. Of the , people who received titles in her birthday honors list,  were nominated for their work in fighting the pandemic. The Financial Times quoted Prime Minister Boris Johnson as saying they were caring, compassionate, and resolute in the face of a global pandemic. The hard work and dedication of these local, often unsung heroes has helped carry us through, Johnson said.I congratulate them all. And his righthand man, Chancellor of the Exchequer Rishi Sunak,weighed in by announcing a new program on Friday to replace the socalled furlough program that ensured people who could not work because of the national lockdown received a portion of their salary. Sunaks new program is aimed at those who work in pubs, restaurants, and other businesses that will be forced to close because of localized novel coronavirus lockdowns. From Nov , the state will pay them  percent of their wage, up to a maximum of , pounds a month ,. Employers will not have to make a contribution but will be able to access government grants to stay in business. The program will stay in place for at least six months. The extension of the job support scheme will provide a safety net for businesses across the UK who are required to temporarily close their doors, Sunak said. But, despite the new program,mayors in northern England, where the number of novel coronavirus cases is growing fastest, said any plan to now introduce local lockdowns there will be fought, in court if necessary. The Guardian newspaper said they believe local lockdowns in the north would lead to longterm economic devastation.