Scientists voice concern, criticism as coronavirus resurges in multiple countries
2020-10-12 09:21
People wait at a COVID testing location in the Borough Park neighborhood in the Brooklyn borough of New York, the United States, Oct , . PhotoAgencies    BEIJING  The latest infections across the world indicate that a resurgence of the coronavirus is likely occurring, which poses great challenges to global health and urges a more efficient response from countries. The United States  ranking first in the world in terms of both case number and death toll from COVID  has recently come under fire from academia. Journals including Nature and Science have started to take aim at the superpowers missteps in the pandemic. As of Sunday, Indias COVID tally continues to rise, with more than  million total confirmed cases and over , deaths. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research, massive tests are underway in the country. Brazil, ranking third only after the United States and India in terms of case tally, has the second highest death toll from COVID at more than ,, Johns Hopkins Universitys data show. Nepal reported , new confirmed cases on Saturday, once again setting a recordhigh number of confirmed cases in a day since the outbreak. Similarly, Canada registered , new cases on Friday, also a recordbreaking daily number. Its current national tally is more than ,. Earlier this week, over , mink have died at farms in the US states of Utah and Wisconsin after a series of coronavirus outbreaks. Farm workers are being directed to use protective equipment, local media reported. The situation seems to become more worrying in Europe as many countries have experienced a continuous increase in daily caseloads, pushing European governments to strengthen restrictions to contain the spread of the virus. After Paris and its neighboring regions were put on top coronavirus alert level on Tuesday, France public health department on Saturday reported , new confirmed cases, another new record of daily infections. According to French media, some health workers have been traumatized by the resurgence of COVID. A lot of them will never get over it, said one of the nurses. Since Oct , Britains daily case number has been continuously increasing to exceed the , mark. Daily cases on Saturday in Italy and Germany surpassed ,. Romania, with a caseload of , the same day, marked a record number of daily new cases since its outbreak. Germany is making efforts to avoid a second lockdown and not to repeat its policies carried out in spring, German Chancellor Angela Merkel said on Friday. Apart from France policy to upgrade city alert levels, Italy has made it mandatory to wear face masks in outdoor spaces, and the Spanish government has ordered a day state of emergency to bring down infection rates in its capital Madrid. British Prime Minister Boris Johnson has declared in late September that he would not hesitate to order further restrictions if necessary. In the United States, the government has long been blamed for not responding effectively to the pandemic. Scientists have recently voiced dissatisfaction in several academic journals and magazines. In an editorial published on Thursday, the New England Journal of Medicine said the United States could have done better. The editors, who signed the editorial, called the US handling of the pandemic an astonishing failure, adding that they the leaders have taken a crisis and turned it into a tragedy. In an article published Wednesday, the multidisciplinary journal Nature chastised the US president for holding mass rallies neglecting state health rules and downplaying the pandemic, which, according to the article, damaged science. Science, on Wednesday, published a website article saying Donald Trump has aggressively pushed for a COVID vaccine. It added that the threat of political interference has created mistrust and confusion in the scientific community. An article dated Oct  from The Lancet pointed out the problem of health inequality in the United States. The health community needs ... to develop more effective antiracist and benevolent public health responses to entrenched health inequalities, the COVID pandemic, and future pandemics, it said.