UK coronavirus cases top , as another , confirmed
2020-10-12 09:11
A woman wears a face mask as she stands outside a shop following the outbreak of the coronavirus disease COVID in Manchester, Britain, Oct , . PhotoAgencies    LONDON  Another , people in Britain have tested positive for COVID, bringing the total number of coronavirus cases in the country to ,, according to official figures released Sunday. The coronavirusrelated deaths rose by  to ,, the latest data showed. Earlier Sunday, Peter Horby, chair of the New and Emerging Respiratory Virus Threats Advisory Group Nervtag and a British government adviser, warned that a second national coronavirus lockdown is a possibility in the face of a worsening situation of the coronavirus pandemic. Horby said during the BBCs Andrew Marr Show program that Britain was at a precarious point and the critical mission now was to protect the National Health Service NHS from being overwhelmed. Meanwhile, Jonathan VanTam, Englands deputy chief medical officer, also warned that Britain has reached a tipping point in its epidemic, similar to that seen in March. At present, Britains coronavirus reproduction number, also known as the R number, is between . and ., slightly down from between . and . last week, the British governments Scientific Advisory Group for Emergencies SAGE has said. The R number, which means the average number of people each person with coronavirus goes on to infect, is one of the major indicators scientists use to determine how fast COVID is spreading. If the R number is above one, it means the number of cases will increase exponentially. British Prime Minister Boris Johnson is expected to outline a new threetiered system of coronavirus restrictions on Monday as new COVID cases continue to rise in the country, local media reported. Johnson will reveal the full details of the muchanticipated approach in a statement to the House of Commons, or the lower house of the British parliament, according to the Londonbased Evening Standard newspaper. The three tiers, known as Local COVID Alert Levels, are expected to be medium, high and very high. Under a very high alert, pubs and bars would have to shut, but not restaurants. To bring life back to normal, countries, such as Britain, China, Russia and the United States, are racing against time to develop coronavirus vaccines.