US COVID vaccination, booster approval pick up as holiday season approaches
2021-11-19 10:02
People ride scooters on the National Mall in Washington, D.C., the United States, on Oct. , .PhotoXinhua    NEW YORK  Fewer Americans this year plan on taking precautions against COVID when hosting or attending holiday gatherings compared with last year, signaling some return to normalcy now that  percent of the country is vaccinated against the virus, local media has reported. Researchers at the Ohio State University Wexner Medical Center polled , adults nationwide from Oct.  to Nov. , finding that  percent would ask partygoers to wear masks, down from  percent, showed the survey published on Monday. Half of those surveyed would ask for the vaccination status of their friends and family. But antivaccine and antimask sentiment isnt necessarily to blame, Iahn Gonsenhauser, a collaborator on the survey and chief quality and patent safety officer at the Wexner Medical Center, was quoted by CNBC as saying. Vaccinated Americans are also starting to feel more comfortable seeing each other without masks, and groups of fully immunized individuals can enjoy the holidays together with basically no precautions in place, he said. I was pretty surprised to see that  percent were still considering asking attendees to wear masks, Gonsenhauser added. I think that what weve seen happen is a change in the understanding and approach to risk mitigation, particularly with a significant proportion of vaccinated individuals. On Thursday, the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention CDC updated that ,, people have received at least one dose of COVID vaccine, making up . percent of the whole U.S. population fully vaccinated people stood at ,,, accounting for . percent of the total. A total of ,, people, or . percent of the fully vaccinated group, have received booster shots. FORTH AND BACK Nearly  percent of toyearolds in the United States have received their first coronavirus vaccine dose, just two weeks into the immunization campaign for the  million young Americans in that age group, Jeff Zients, the White Houses coronavirus coordinator, said on Wednesday. Zients, speaking to reporters alongside the nations top infectiousdisease expert Anthony Fauci and CDC Director Rochelle Walensky, estimated that by the end of the day on Wednesday, . million children younger than  would have received their first shot. In fact, the pace of vaccinations for kids has been accelerating. In the last week, . million kids got vaccinated  double the prior week, he added. The CDC signed off on a pediatric vaccine for younger children on Nov. , and the nationwide drive to inoculate that age group was operational on Nov. . In contrast, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration OSHA is suspending enforcement of the Joe Biden administrations COVID vaccine mandate for large private businesses after a federal appeals court upheld a stay on it last week. OSHA said in a statement published on its website that while it is confident in its power to protect workers amid the pandemic, it is suspending activities related to the mandate, citing the pending litigation. Last week, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit fully blocked Bidens executive order requiring companies with over  workers to mandate vaccination for their employees after temporarily staying it earlier. BOOSTERS FOR ALL ADULTS The U.S. Food and Drug Administration FDA and the CDC are expected to recommend COVID boosters for anyone who wants one and is at least six months past their initial vaccination by the end of the week. The CDC has said its safe to mix vaccine brands. COVID vaccines do a great job of preventing hospitalization and death, but their protection against infection starts to fade at about six months, even in young, healthy people. Thats why by the end of the week, booster doses may be recommended for all adults, or at least those over , reported USA Today on Thursday. Theres really no downside to getting a third shot, Ted Ross, an infectious diseases expert at the University of Georgia in Athens, was quoted as saying. California, New Mexico and Colorado are among the states that have already made boosters available to all adults. Meanwhile, Moderna has asked federal regulators to authorize booster shots of its coronavirus vaccine for all adults, a request that the FDA could grant as early as this week along with a similar request from Pfizer, reported The New York Times on Wednesday. If the CDC also signs off, every adult who was fully vaccinated with the PfizerBioNTech or Moderna shot at least six months ago would not only be eligible for a booster, but could choose which vaccine. The agencys committee of independent experts is set to meet on Friday to discuss booster shots. It would also allow U.S. President Joe Biden to fulfill his August pledge to offer booster shots to every adult, nearly two months later than the administration originally planned, though, and amid an ongoing debate among experts over whether extra shots are necessary for younger, healthy adults, according to the report.