Speedy response contributes to Chinas sucessful control of COVID The Lancet
2020-10-11 11:44
Medical professionals hand out Lianhuaqingwen capsules to patients at a Fangcang Hospital in Wuhan, Central Chinas Hubei province in February. Photo provided to chinadaily.com.cn    LONDON  China has managed to wrest control of the COVID pandemic, which was attributed to speedy response and its culture among others, medical journal The Lancet has reported. Comparing the pandemic developments in China and some Western countries, an article published in the journal on Thursday said that a centralised epidemic response system has primarily wellplaced China to tackle the disease. The speed of Chinas response was the crucial factor, said Gregory Poland, director of the Mayo Clinics Vaccine Research Group in Rochester, the US state of Minnesota. They moved very quickly to stop transmission. Other countries, even though they had much longer to prepare for the arrival of the virus, delayed their response and that meant they lost control, Poland explained. From strict lockdowns and outdoor restrictions to massive tests in metropolises across the country, the article analyzed Chinas measures to fight the virus. China had managed to test  million people for SARSCoV in Wuhan within weeks, it noted, adding It set up an effective national system of contact tracing. The article outlined the factors promoting the effectiveness of Chinas response, including the manufacturing capability of personal protective equipment, effective building of Fangcang hospitals network, public health actions, notably wearing masks, coordination between government sectors and civil compliance with regulations. Commitment to the greater good is engrained in the culture, Poland said, adding that Chinese accept the notion that disease control is a matter of science. Chinas response to the pandemic is generalizable, the article said. So far, the global COVID caseload has surpassed  million with over  million deaths, according to the Johns Hopkins University. As of Friday, , COVID cases were reported on the Chinese mainland, Chinas National Health Commission said in its daily briefing on Saturday.