History offers lessons on ways to win friends
2020-10-10 07:42
Photo taken on May ,  shows Tiananmen Square in Beijing. PhotoVCG    Three years ago, at the invitation of Indonesias consul general to Guangzhou, I gave a talk on Chinas Economy in  at the RitzCarlton Guangzhou, which was attended among others by  consuls general. I framed the talk drawing from three major trends of China over the past three decades, and focused on three areasgrowing regional and international trade emphasis on education, including the revival of classics and the proliferation of communications technology exemplified by enterprises such as Alibaba and Tencent. Trade, classics and the press Gutenberg, the parallels between todays China and th century Europe are too prominent to miss. As China is experiencing its own renaissance, I was optimistic about Chinas economy in . What I did not expect was the dynamic interactions following the speech. Some questioned the possibility of China undergoing reformation following a Chinese renaissance, while others were convinced that Chinas economic rise has benefited the region. One consul general said that I had missed out the critical factor that helped spread Renaissance from Florence to Venice and beyond the Black Death of  which affected Europe and Asia, including China. Whatever the place of origin of the plague which claimed millions of lives, the traveling merchants, bankers and militia groups along the ancient Silk Road were the catalysts. The consul generals conclusion was that the fates of Europe and China were bound together for better or for worse, and it was always business that stood in between these crossroads. What acerbic wisdom? Against this backdrop and the daily feeds of current geopolitical reads, the question on how to approach China through trade and diplomacy is worth reflecting. Conversely, China needs to win friends from Asia to Europe, especially in critical times like these. Reversing the order of , based on the figures from January to July this year, ASEAN is the number one trading partner of China followed by the European Union and the United States. Also, for the first two quarters of this year, China was the biggest export market for Germany. Even Temasek has made China its top investment venue, with underlying exposures of . billion Singapore dollars . billion, which account for nearly onethird of the funds global investment portfolio. As for Beijing, it is on the move to win new friends and consolidate old friendships. On Aug , in a videoconference with leaders of Cambodia, Laos, Myanmar, Thailand and Vietnam, Premier Li Keqiang promised to accord priority to providing COVID vaccines. The same day, State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi embarked on a weeklong visit to Italy, the Netherlands, Norway, France and Germany to promote global trade, technology cooperation, and multilateralism. Earlier, on Aug , Yang Jiechi, Chinas top diplomat, visited Singapore, followed by trips to Spain and Greece in early September. It appears China is taking a page out of the diplomatic playbook of the Ming Dynasty . Emperor Yongle commissioned seven sea voyages between  and  through Malacca, India, the Strait of Hormuz and the Malindi Bay near Mombasa, Kenya. Led by Zheng He, a Chinese Muslim, the Chinese fleet in  had  vessels carrying  eunuchs,  medical personnel, five astrologers,  soldiers and , other personnel. Through these voyages, China conducted trade with  countries, bringing back visitors, gifts and what John King Fairbank called scientific curiosities such as giraffes. Unlike Vasco da Gamas objectives of gold, glory and the Gospel, Zheng Hes purpose was primarily commercial and to ensure national security. On the other hand, there is the story of the Jesuits who traveled to China during the late th century, especially that of Matteo Ricci , an Italian priest who spent  years in China. Ricci lived in Zhaoqing, Guangzhou, Nanchang, Nanjing and Beijing, making friends with people from all sections of society including highranking officials. With the help of three such officialsXu Guangqi, Yang Tingyun and Li ZhizaoRicci and some other Jesuits translated Confucian works such as The Great Learning and exported them to Europe. The collaboration and knowledge transmission between Ricci and Xu helped China to grow potatoes in Shanghai and Tianjin, control floods and eradicate locusts in many places, shape its worldview, and correct its calendar. In fact, the ties between China and Europe were so strong that the Jesuits survived the transition from the Ming Dynasty to the Qing Dynasty  and flourished in the country till about . The friendship between China and Europe resulted in knowledge transfer, technology sharing, enriching cultural ties, and regional stability. How to win friends and influence people? This could be on top of the agenda for todays diplomatic and business worlds, from Beijing to Bangkok to Brussels. But, unfortunately, there is a sense of declining neighborliness. Chinas good Samaritan gestures of supplying medicines, medical equipment and face masks to other countries have been labeled facemask diplomacy, which hints at Beijings increasingly controlling attitude. But while China needs a better way to tell its story, other countries should also seize the chance to develop friendship and trade ties with China. The author is the general manager of a foreign bank in Guangzhou. The views dont necessarily represent those of China Daily.