UK GDP keeps growing in August but far below prepandemic levels
2020-10-09 21:52
A man walks past a boarded up shop, amid the spread of the coronavirus disease COVID, in Bolton, Britain July , . PhotoAgencies    LONDON  Britains gross domestic product GDP recorded the fourth consecutive monthly rise in August , but remained far below the prepandemic levels, the British Office for National Statistics ONS said Friday. ONS data showed that the GDP grew by . percent in August monthonmonth, lower than the previous monthly rise of . percent in July, . percent in June and . percent in May, as lockdown measures continued to ease across the country. The disappointing . percent mm rise in GDP consensus forecast . percent adds to the evidence that the initial rebound in economic activity is running out of steam, said Ruth Gregory, an economist at Londonbased economic analysis firm Capital Economics. Despite a successive growth, the level of output in August remained . percent lower than the levels seen in February , before the full impact of the coronavirus pandemic, said the ONS. Compared with the GDP in February, the drop was broadly seen across all sectors in August, with services, manufacturing and construction losing by . percent, . percent and . percent, respectively. Forecasting the economic prospect in the upcoming months, analysts thought it would be a tough challenge facing Britain as further restrictions are expected to be introduced amid the resurgence of the pandemic. With new restrictions being imposed, we think that a similar rise in September will be followed by no increase at all in the last three months of , Gregory added. Another , people in Britain had tested positive for COVID, bringing the total number of coronavirus cases in the country to ,, according to official figures released Thursday. To bring life back to normal, countries, such as Britain, China, Russia and the United States, are racing against time to develop coronavirus vaccines. James Smith, a developed markets economist at financial services firm ING, said were expecting another, similarsized GDP increase in September to reflect the reopening of schools and other education settings, but reckon it is fairly likely that Octobers GDP will go into reverse.