Potential COVID vaccines unaffected by mutation Australian study
2020-10-09 10:40
A monitor depicts the structure of SARSCoV during a Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee hearing to discuss about vaccines and protecting public health during the coronavirus disease COVID pandemic, in Washington, US, Sept , . PhotoAgencies    CANBERRA  Research by Australias national science agency has found that potential vaccines for COVID would not be affected by how the virus has mutated. A study published by the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organization CSIRO on Thursday has dispelled fears that vaccines would not be effective against multiple strains of SARSCoV, the virus which causes COVID. According to the study most candidate vaccines have been modelled on the Dstrain of the virus that was dominant at the outbreak of the pandemic. However, the virus has since evolved into the Gstrain, or DG mutation, which now accounts for  percent of SARSCoV genomes. The CSIRO team tested both strains of the virus on the blood of ferrets that had been vaccinated with INO, a candidate vaccine developed by Inovio Pharmaceuticals, finding that it was effective against both D and Gstrains. This brings the world one step closer to a safe and effective vaccine to protect people and save lives, Larry Marshall, the chief executive of the CSIRO, said in a statement. Research like this, at speed, is only possible through deep collaboration with partners both in Australia and around the world. Lead author of the study, S.S. Vasan from the CSIROs Dangerous Pathogens Team, said the findings were good news for hundreds of vaccines being developed around the world. Most COVID vaccine candidates target the virus spike protein as this binds to the ACE receptors in our lungs and airways, which are the entry point to infect cells, said Vasan. Despite this DG mutation to the spike protein, we confirmed through experiments and modelling that vaccine candidates are still effective. Weve also found the Gstrain is unlikely to require frequent vaccine matching where new vaccines need to be developed seasonally to combat the virus strains in circulation, as is the case with influenza.