Antipandemic HK wristbands, masks gain global recognition
2020-10-04 19:37
Hong Kong Chief Executive Carrie Lam Cheng Yuetngor second right talks to a worker while visiting one of the production sites of CuMask in Tsuen Wan, Hong Kong on May , . PHOTOINFORMATION SERVICES DEPARTMENTHKSAR    Hong Kongs hightech products used to fight the coronavirus pandemic have drawn interest from around the world, showing the special administrative regions prowess in innovation and technology, industry players said. During the pandemic, Hong Kongdesigned products, including smart wristbands used to monitor people under quarantine, as well as reusable masks and temperaturetaking robots, have facilitated residents daily lives while gaining recognition from the world community. The wristband was developed by the Logistics and Supply Chain MultiTech RD Centre, a governmentfunded research and development institute. Simon Wong Kwongyeung, chief executive officer of the center, told China Daily that about  countries and regions, such as Israel, the Philippines and Saudi Arabia, have shown interest in the design and application of the wristbands. Bermuda, a British overseas territory, has purchased , electronic wristbands from Hong Kong and adopted them in local quarantine measures, according to Wong. Another governmentfunded RD institute, Hong Kong Research Institute of Textiles and Apparel, developed a reusable mask with its awardwinning reusable fabric technology. The mask can be washed and reused up to  times. The masks were distributed to residents free of charge in May, June and September. Wong said the pandemic pushes the citys innotech industry forward as it creates new demands and scenarios that motivate researchers to transfer innotech results into products. The pandemic created more opportunities for the innotech industry, he said. It took the center only one day to design the first product after it got the task of wristband designing. Without the funding, our staffs commitment or RD in the past few years, we couldnt have completed the task, Wong said. He said the publichealth crisis has made people realize that only technology can help the world solve such problems. So more funding should be invested into the technology RD field to ensure we can deal with similar crises with science and technology in the future, he said. Echoing Wong, Chan Ching chuen, Hong Kongs first academic at the Beijingbased Chinese Academy of Engineering, agreed that the pandemic creates opportunities for innotech development, adding the city should grab the chance and proactively get involved in the fight against COVID, including accelerating vaccine development and putting more effort into research on the virus. According to an innovation survey on the technology industry by accounting firm and advisory network KPMG this year, over the next four years, Hong Kong will become the thleading technology innovation hub, joining the ranks of tech centers like San Francisco, which boasts Silicon Valley in California. Chan, also an honorary professor in the Department of Electrical and Electronic Engineering at the University of Hong Kong, said Hong Kong has strength to develop as a leading innotech center, but the city currently lacks research and development institutes compared with Silicon Valley. The scholar noted that Hong Kong private companies have shown scant interest in local RD institutions despite the citys ability to create technology products that meet market needs. The Innovation and Technology Bureau said in  that Hong Kongs RD expenditure accounted for just . percent of the citys gross domestic product, with public investment hitting  percent and the private sector at  percent. In other developed economies, privatesector RD investment usually exceeds that of the government. In Singapore, for instance, the publicprivate sector investment ratio for research and development is . Funding expanding In an interview with China Daily in midSeptember, Secretary for Innovation and Technology Alfred Sit Winghang said the government will continue to expand its funding for local research institutes and technology enterprises, and provide more resources to lure top innotech professionals from around the world. Besides government financial support, Chan urged Hong Kongs conglomerates to take the lead in lifting the innotech industry and invest in RD to promote innotech development. He said small and mediumsized companies in Hong Kong will follow suit after major enterprises get the ball rolling. This would push the citys economy to undergo a new structural transformation, Chan said. The investment and support in innotech programs provided by local enterprises in the past years should not be ignored, said Lam Chiwing, chairman of the executive board of Compass Innovation Alliance. As the global economy faces a gloomy future, he said, the crisis will force the citys companies in traditional industries to dip their toes in emerging industries and make them think about how to keep their own competitiveness with advanced science and technology. Lam, also an entrepreneur and vicechairman of the One Country Two Systems Youth Forum, a Hong Kongbased think tank, said leading technology companies secondary listings in Hong Kong have a positive effect on the citys innotech environment. This will not only attract more capital, from both the Chinese mainland and overseas, but also let more investors keep tuned into the innotech fields latest development. This is good news for Hong Kongs innotech atmosphere, Lam added.