Lakers ready to have last laugh
2021-10-06 10:22
From left Los Angeles Lakers main men LeBron James and Anthony Davis will lead a batch of veteran newcomers that includes Carmelo Anthony, Russell Westbrook, DeAndre Jordan and Dwight Howard in the forthcoming NBA season. The Lakers roster has an average age of almost . PhotoAgencies    Mocked as the NBAs oldest lineup, LeBron and his band of veterans are keen to prove the cynics wrong LeBron James has heard the basketball world talking about how the Los Angeles Lakers are too old, and he is laughingboth literally and figuratively. Some of the memes and some of the jokes have been extremely funny, James said with a grin. At  years old, James is on a roster of his peers as he enters his th NBA season. Nine of the Lakers  current players are  or older, including eight of their  new additionsand Anthony Davis is a highmileage . Depending on any late moves, the Lakers average age is likely to be nearly , which would be two years older than any other NBA roster. But instead of fixating on his new teammates s birth dates, James thinks people should be focusing on the skill, experience and athleticism represented by all those numbers. Russell Westbrook, Carmelo Anthony and a supporting cast of accomplished NBA veterans are teaming up with James and Davis, and they are confident they can prove age is not yet a hindrance to their incredible talent. We come out and we put the time in, we put the work in, James said. We make our own narrative. One thing that we know is who we are. Weve got a bunch of guys that have been in this league quite a while that understand and know what it takes to win. The business that were in is winning, and doing it all the time. The rest of James new teammates react to the questions around their ages with the same raised eyebrows. The Lakers all seem to wonder why the skeptics dont realize these players have outlasted dozens of younger players in the NBA for some very good reasons. Its never bulletinboard material, because its somebody elses narrative, said Anthony, James fellow member of the draft class of .We dont get moments like this often where you have a group of guys with this stature on one team who all like each other. Thats hard to find. The Lakers are now in preseason preparations with two weeks to go before their regularseason opener against the Golden State Warriors at Staples Center. With just three players returning from last seasons team, the Lakers realize they have work to do, and theyve already begun their bonding with a recent weekend trip to Las Vegas. They hope to find a groove swiftly with a roster also including newcomers DeAndre Jordan, Rajon Rondo, Kent Bazemore, Trevor Ariza and threetime Lakers center Dwight Howardalong with youngsters Malik Monk and Kendrick Nunn. James isnt worried about finding a rhythm with Westbrook, the balldominating Los Angeles native landed by the Lakers in a blockbuster trade with Washington after averaging a tripledouble yet again last season. The thirdleading scorer in NBA history cited his years of experience in playing alongside gifted teammates ranging from Dwyane Wade and Chris Bosh to Kyrie Irving and Kevin Love. Im very cerebral about what I need to do in order for our team to be as great as we can be, and also to complement what Russ brings to the table, James said. I always figure it out. I dont think its going to be like peanut butter and jelly to start the season, but thats all part of the process and all part of my work. I like to actually put in the work to get to how great it can be. The Lakers have also taken a major step toward togetherness and health by getting their roster fully vaccinated against COVID. Even Bazemore, an outspoken vaccine skeptic last season in Golden State, has received his first dose and is eager to get his second. Bazemore said he decided to get the vaccine after a conversation about life and philosophy with Lakers general manager Rob Pelinka. One thing you dont want to have is regret, Bazemore said. And if I go to another team or miss this season because I didnt do it and Ive got to watch these guys party with the Larry OBrien Trophy because I didnt do it, Id be pretty hurt. James also confirmed he has been vaccinated, putting to rest the rumors around his previous reluctance to disclose his status. He acknowledged initial skepticism about the vaccine, but decided it was the right decision to stay healthy for his teammates and family. Health undid the Lakers title defense last season Davis, James and several complementary players were limited or unable to play throughout Los Angeles firstround loss to Phoenix. Davis absences have been the most crushing for the Lakers over the past two years, and the big man is eager to be more durable. As one of the Lakers youngsters heading into only his ninth NBA season, he sees it as a responsibility. I didnt feel comfortable missing that many games, Davis said. Not being able to play at full strength in the playoffs against Phoenix ... that didnt sit well with me. I made an emphasis on taking care of my body, getting my body back to what it was strengthwise my first year here. Agencies via Xinhua