Poor countries inability to immunize against COVID a disaster for rich countries
2020-09-30 17:35
A lion statue that sits outside the New York Public Library building wears a mask in the Manhattan borough of New York City, New York, US, September , . PhotoAgencies    The world is on the brink of a scientific achievement  one COVID vaccine maybe more will likely be ready by early next year  but were also on the brink of a real strategic failing It has to do with the manufacture and distribution of these vaccines. Right now, that effort is an international bidding war. It almost resembles the cutthroat market for ventilators and personal protective equipment PPE at the beginning of the pandemic. Countries are cutting deals with pharmaceutical companies, securing the right to buy vaccine doses as soon as theyre produced. And like in all bidding wars, the wealthiest bidders are winning Already, the worlds highincome nations have secured enough vaccine doses to cover more than twice their populations. But what about the low and lowermiddle income nations of the world? This is a group of countries ranging from South Sudan to Nicaragua to Myanmar. Theyre home to nearly half of all human beings, and they dont have the purchasing power to cut big deals with pharmaceutical companies. As things stand now, these countries wont have nearly enough doses. Theyll only be able to cover  percent of their people. This is a disaster in the making for poorer countries. But thats obvious. Whats less obvious, but equally true, is that its also a disaster for rich countries. New modeling from Northeastern University helps illustrate why. The researchers there analyzed two scenarios. In one, vaccines are distributed to all countries based on their population size. Then theres another scenario that approximates whats happening now  rich countries get the first  billion doses of vaccine. In this scenario, the virus continues to spread unchecked for four months in three quarters of the world. And almost twice as many people die. Of course, poor countries would feel the most pain. But rich countries wouldnt be immune. Wed all become Australia and New Zealand. Both have gone long stretches with very few cases inside their borders, but their economies remain depressed because their trading partners are on lockdown. And occasionally, a new carrier of the virus makes his way across the South Pacific, creating new clusters of the disease. Those clusters grow and spread. Schools and offices are shut down again. Even with an oversupply of vaccine, wealthy nations risk reinfection in this way. Because not everybody will choose to be vaccinated. No country can become a fortress in a pandemic. The only way to eliminate the threat of this disease somewhere is to eliminate it everywhere. The most urgent task is closing this vaccine gap between rich and poor countries. If you lead a wealthy country, success doesnt look like being able to vaccinate every person inside your borders and still having warehouses full of vaccine to spare. Thats what failure looks like. Success is purchasing enough vaccine supply for your people  and for the wider world that cant afford to. This is where the ACT Accelerator can help. Its an initiative supported by organizations like Gavi and the Global Fund. Not many people have heard of them, but they have spent two decades becoming experts in the task of delivering vaccines, diagnostics, and drugs to poor countries. They have technical ability to solve this problem. They just dont have the financing yet.