Science, cooperation only path to ending Americas COVID tragedy
2020-09-23 13:59
Luo JieChina Daily    COVID has so far claimed the lives of more than , people in the United States. The loss of life isnt solely an American tragedy. Its a humanitarian disaster. The , lost souls are more than triple the number of US soldiers killed in the Vietnam War and approximately equal to the whole population of the Salt Lake City, the most populous municipality in the US state of Utah. The United States boasts a health system presumably the envy of the world. Yet it now has about one fifth of the worlds confirmed coronavirus infections and deaths, despite being home to only . percent of the worlds population. So what happened? Washingtons antiscience stance is one major cause for the catastrophe. While the American public has been desperate for reliable guidance to pull through this unprecedented pandemic, they are getting increasingly lost after the nations leaders launched a train of assaults on science and common sense. The American people have seen some politicians in Washington and in other parts of the country downplaying the danger of the virus, peddling all sorts of jawdropping conspiracy theories, advising unauthorized drugs, and unconfirmed and lifethreatening treatments, as well as refuting the suggestions of medical professionals while trying to shift blame. Trying to fight this pandemic while subverting scientific expertise is like fighting blindfolded, four chiefs, who have led the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for  years, said in a narrative published on July  on the Washington Post website. We cannot recall over our collective tenure a single time when political pressure led to a change in the interpretation of scientific evidence. Moreover, Washingtons anticooperation sentiment has not only undermined the worlds collective efforts to beat the pathogen, but also will delay Americas own victory over the virus. In this age of globalization, no one is truly safe during a pandemic until everyone is safe, and COVID illustrates how the United States has let the world down. Since the start of the outbreak, the United States has contributed little, if anything, to the global fight against the virus. Instead, the United States has been busy undercutting global cooperation in combatting the diseases spread. It smeared other countries over the origin of the pathogen, seized medical materials from allies, departed from the World Health Organization that is tasked with coordinating a global drive to manage the disease, and has been stoking a dangerous and divisive nationalism over a vaccine. And while Iran and Venezuela are in the thick of the contagion, the current US administration, rather than showing some sense of empathy, has been churning out more smothering sanction proposals against those countries despite global oppositon and condemnation. Alas, it seems that where there is destruction and disinformation, there is the United States. When the international community is commemorating the th anniversary of the United Nations, the UN General Assembly has adopted a resolution to encourage international cooperation in response to the ravaging outbreak and other challenging global crises facing humanity. Once again, the United States voted against it. At this point, we can start to see why the US foundered a failure of leadership at many levels and across parties a distrust of scientists, the media and expertise in general and deeply ingrained cultural attitudes about individuality and how we value human lives have all combined to result in a horrifically inadequate pandemic response, Time magazine says in its issue marking the grim milestone. Unless those in Washington stop misleading the country by rejecting science and upholding goingitaloneism, then the United States is almost sure to hit more heartbreaking markers in infections and deaths. Yet at the moment, decisionmakers in the United States have yet to demonstrate a heartfelt remorse. Expect more such failures by the United States to come.