Think tank PIIE revises down forecast for US economic growth to . pct in
2021-10-06 06:48
The skyline of New York City. PhotoAgencies    WASHINGTON  The US gross domestic product GDP is on track to grow by . percent this year, lower than the previous projection of  percent, according to the Peterson Institute for International Economics PIIEs semiannual Global Economic Prospects released Tuesday. US core inflation is projected to diminish to . percent by the end of next year, after reaching nearly  percent at the end of this year, PIIE Senior Fellow Karen Dynan, former assistant secretary for economy policy and chief economist at the US Treasury Department, told reporters at a virtual briefing, noting that temporary factors are going to recede slowly. PIIE President Adam Posen, meanwhile, said he is expecting three quarters of percent higher inflation than Dynans projection, forecasting core personal consumption expenditures PCE of . percent for . My difference with her is in interpretation of the labor market that I think the structural changes are going to be more disruptive, Posen said, while adding that there are big bands of uncertainty around the projections. Data from the Labor Department showed that US employers added fewerthanexpected , jobs in August, indicating a marked slowdown in job growth amid a Delta variantfueled COVID surge, with unemployment rate falling slightly by . percentage point to . percent. Dynan projects that US unemployment rate will decline to . percent in the fourth quarter of  and end  at  percent. In her latest forecast, Dynan pointed to five key economic factors that are shaping the outlook in the United States ample household financial resources that will keep consumer demand high a gradual retreat of supply chain problems and bottlenecks a slow return of workingage individuals to the labor force partial offset of waning stimulus by new fiscal measures and a slightly earlier tightening of monetary policy than what the Federal Reserve currently expects. She noted that she worries about any kind of event that could rock financial markets and cause asset prices to decline sharply, such as the debt ceiling crisis. I think the biggest kind of concern along those lines is just that the Fed will need to move more aggressively and theyll have to pivot faster than they currently think that theyll need to pivot. And that could really kind of upset financial markets, Dynan said. US President Joe Biden on Monday urged the Congress to raise the debt limit, lashing out at Republicans for threatening to use their power to block Democrats efforts, as the debt ceiling impasse awaits a solution. Biden said Republicans are threatening to use a procedural power called the filibuster, which means Democrats would need to get  votes  instead of a simple majority  to increase the debt limit in a  split Senate. In a letter to the president on Monday, Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell, however, reiterated that his party wont help Democrats on the issue, complaining about Democrats lack of bipartisanship in crafting major legislations. A House vote on the . trillionUS dollar bipartisan infrastructure plan, a top priority of Biden, has been delayed as Democrats have been struggling to reach consensus within the party on the size of the massive social spending plan. Progressives have been seeking to approve a . trillion dollars package, while moderates such as Senator Joe Manchin of West Virginia have raised concerns about the potential cost of the package, and recently put forward a figure of . trillion dollars. Big spending increases are being discussed, but the final numbers will be much smaller, Dynan said, noting that there will be a partial tax offset, and the amounts will be spent over  years. PIIEs forecast assumes  billion dollars in net new stimulus. According to the semiannual forecast, the United States is leading the other large advanced economies in its economic recovery after an early start on vaccination and an aggressive fiscal response to the pandemic. The global economy will expand . percent in  and . percent in , the projection showed. As has been the case since the beginning of the pandemic, growth prospects in China have been the brightest among the large emergingmarket economies, Dynan noted. PIIE projects Chinese economy to grow by . percent this year, followed by . percent growth in . China needs to rely more on productivity for future growth, as returns on capital and working age population are in decline, he added.