Britain faces critical moment in pandemic
2020-09-22 09:42
A cat relaxes next to a student at the Old Bodleian Library buildings, Oxford University, ahead of the new academic year, amidst the coronavirus disease COVID pandemic, in Oxford, Britain, Sept , . PhotoAgencies    University towns fear student influx could lead to widespread infection Britain could see nearly , new COVID cases daily by midOctober if infections continue to double every seven days, according to the nations chief scientific advisor, Patrick Vallance. Urgent action is required to slow the pandemics spread, said Vallance, who was speaking at a Downing Street briefing on Monday that aimed to set out potential scenarios as cases in the United Kingdom continue to rise. Vallance warned that if this worstcase scenario occurred it would lead to plus deaths a day by midNovember. Chief medical advisor, Chris Whitty, also at the briefing, confirmed daily cases have returned to levels last seen in May, and that the R number, which shows the spread of the virus, is now between . and .. Whitty warned that infection rates are heading in the wrong directionand the country is at a critical point in the pandemic. He added This is not someone elses problem, this is all of our problem. It is likely the virus will benefit from the change in seasons to fall and winter, Whitty added. It will be a sixmonth problem that we will have to deal with collectively, he said. What weve seen is a progression where, after the remarkable efforts which got the rates right down across the country, first we saw very small outbreaks, maybe associated with a workplace or another environment, then weve seen more localized outbreaks which have got larger over time, particularity in the cities, said Whitty. The pair warned that the UK could replicate countries such as Spain and France that are experiencing a second surge of infections. Parts of the Spanish capital Madrid went into a tough new lockdown on Monday. More than , residents have been asked to stay at home and are not allowed to leave the areas they live in, except to go to work and for emergency medical treatment. Numbers are now increasing across the UK in all age groups, said Vallance. It is now estimated that about , people in the UK have the COVID infection and around , per day are getting the infection, he said. Vallance added that there was progress being made on vaccines. He suggested the UK was in a good position and that it was possible that a vaccine could be available by the end of the year in small amounts for certain groups. In the meantime we have got to get in control of this, he added. The scientists, giving their first news conference without the company of a politician, revealed that just  percent of the UKs population is thought to have had the virus. Analyzing the news briefing for BBC News, Mark Walport, the governments former chief scientific advisor, said the figures show the consequences of exponential growth and dispelled myths that the virus is becoming mild, and the mistaken idea that lots of people had become infected. He added The truth is that the vast majority of the population is still susceptible. British government officials have stressed that plans for handling the surge stop short of a full national lockdown. Prime Minister Boris Johnson is expected to address the nation on Tuesday to outline any new restrictions that may be introduced. A survey has shown more than half of people living in UK university towns and cities fear the return of students will lead to COVID infection spikes. Tens of thousands of students will return to, or begin, studies in the coming days and weeks. The poll, carried out by the University and College Union UCU and published by The Observer newspaper, has suggested  percent of people in these areas fear the students arrival could trigger fresh local lockdowns. The papers report said the poll shows the public now wants online learning to be the default position as just  percent agree with the government that inperson learning should continue as far as possible. A Guardian newspaper report suggests rental incomes in some parts of London have tumbled by up to  percent, with one of the factors being the fall in the number of international students seeking accommodation. One of the capitals biggest lettings agents told the newspaper that lockdowns and restrictions in the UK and around the world had made a dramatic impact. Chestertons said that between June and September,  percent of its central London tenants were usually international students, and highlighted a report issued in June that warned of a potential drop in international students of  percent to  percent this fall.