Cooperation founded on friendship
2020-09-21 08:36
MA XUEJINGCHINA DAILY    Even as they fight the COVID jointly, China and Brazil are looking at how to strengthen ties in the postpandemic era China and Brazil are the largest developing countries in the Eastern and Western hemispheres respectively, and their friendship is long standing and well established. Thanks to the efforts of several generations, the two countries have continually deepened mutual political trust and their pragmatic cooperation has yielded fruitful results since the establishment of diplomatic ties  years ago. Brazil was the first country to establish a strategic partnership and the first Latin American nation to establish a comprehensive strategic partnership with China. China has been Brazils top trading partner and largest export destination for  consecutive years, and is also one of Brazils main sources of foreign investment. The two countries began their space cooperation in early s and have jointly developed and launched five earth resources satellites since then. Peopletopeople contact and cultural exchanges have become more frequent. The strategic and overall influence of bilateral ties has been continuously enhanced. As a result, ChinaBrazil ties have been hailed as a model of cooperation among emerging markets. Following the novel coronavirus outbreak early this year, leaders of China and Brazil reached an important consensus on pandemic control and cooperation in various fields. All walks of life in both countries joined hands to defeat the virus. During Chinas toughest moment in the fight against the pandemic, the Brazilian people expressed their sincere support and the Chinese government provided batches of urgently needed medical supplies to Brazil once the virus spread there. More than  provinces and cities and over  enterprises in China have donated medical supplies to Brazil, including ventilators, CT scanners, protective clothing, detection kits and hospital beds worth  million Brazil Real . million in total. China has also hosted about  online meetings, enabling science academies and medical teams in the two countries to share their experience in fighting against the virus. The Chinese government helped Brazil purchase , metric tons of antipandemic products in China. In addition, biopharmaceutical producers in the two countries are speeding up cooperation in developing a vaccine. All these point to the deep friendship between the people of the two countries and their firm will to conquer difficulties together. ChinaBrazil cooperation is progressing steadily despite the adverse situation. According to Brazils statistics, in the first seven months of this year, the total trade volume of the two countries increased by more than  percent yearonyear, and Brazils exports to China increased by  percent, with exports of agricultural products alone increasing by more than  percent. Construction of Brazils scientific research station in Antarctica, which was contracted to a Chinese enterprise, has finished and the Chinese manufacturing industrys first overseas bank was settled in Brazil at the beginning of the year. Recently, the super large offshore gasoline plant built by China began operations in the Santos basin oilfield in Brazil, and Chinese enterprises have officially participated in the gas power station project in the port in Rio de Janeiro. Enterprises of the two countries will also jointly manufacture electric buses. These achievements demonstrate that ChinaBrazil pragmatic cooperation is highly complementary, mutually beneficial and resilient with great potential. At present, both China and Brazil face the common challenges of fighting the pandemic, stabilizing the economy and ensuring peoples livelihoods. The governments, enterprises and industry associations of the two countries are also planning cooperation in various fields during and after the pandemic. As for trade, the two countries are highly complementary in the supply and demand of agricultural and animal husbandry products. As Chinas economy recovers from the impacts of the pandemic, its domestic markets consumption potential and demand for Brazils specialties will increase steadily, creating demand for more imports of highquality products and services from Brazil. In particular, as Chinas urbanization and residents consumption are upgraded, the demand for food, meat and poultry, fruit, dairy products, coffee and other special and high valueadded products from Brazil will increase. Although the pandemic has temporarily hindered personnel exchanges, economic and trade negotiations, project investigation and other activities, it has not dampened the two countries enthusiasm to seek investment and cooperation. Brazilian government has held a group of online project promotional events for Chinese enterprises while China is paying close attention to Brazils postpandemic development strategies and policies in infrastructure, agriculture, energy and other key areas. China hopes that the two sides will continue to maintain flexible communication, synergize their respective development plans and promote cooperation on specific projects. As hegemony, unilateralism and protectionism are on the rise all over the world, aggravating the instability and uncertainty of the world situation, China and Brazil share a wide range of common interests in promoting multilateralism and supporting free trade and other major issues. They also share a lot of common concerns on nontraditional challenges such as data and internet security, public healthcare and environmental protection. The two sides can further strengthen their cooperation, enhance communication and coordination, and safeguard the common interests of developing countries and emerging markets within the frameworks of BRICS and the G. During the pandemic, there has been rapid growth of new industries such as those of the contactless economy, distance education and online health services. These emerging modes of production, sales and consumption, as well as novel ways of employment and investment, can be new driving forces to boost and upgrade ChinaBrazil cooperation. The two countries enjoy strong complementarity in cooperating on science and technology innovations. Both sides can give full play to their advantages, expand cooperation in emerging industries such as G technology, clean energy, modern agriculture and the digital economy, and promote cooperation in related fields. Looking to the future, ChinaBrazil cooperation holds unlimited potential, full motivation and broad prospects. The two countries will continue to move forward handinhand, seize new opportunities amid the crisis, promote the sustainable and indepth development of ChinaBrazil comprehensive strategic partnership, and bring more benefits to the two peoples. The author is the Chinese ambassador to Brazil. The author contributed this article to China Watch, a think tank powered by China Daily. The views do not necessarily reflect those of China Daily.