Digital reason for good economic show
2020-09-21 07:21
MA XUEJINGCHINA DAILY    Despite taking a serious hit from COVID lockdowns, Chinas economy has proved resilient, although it has not fully bounced back, as some activities, especially in the service sector, cannot be revived. Yet unlike most of the world, China seems unlikely to become mired in a long recession, not least because of its rapid digital transformation. Chinas digital economy was growing strongly before the pandemic. In , it already accounted for . trillion yuan . trillion, or  percent of GDP. While this is only about onethird the size of the United States digital economy, it represents years of growth that outpaced that of nominal GDP. The COVID crisis is set to reinforce this trend. The pandemic has destroyed some businesses and industries, but it has also greatly accelerated the uptake of digital technologies. Unable to leave their homes, people embraced shopping and catering platforms such as JD.com, Meituan, Pinduoduo and Eleme, which enabled them to purchase food, oil, vegetables and other daily necessities online. Moreover, within a month of closing their classrooms and evacuating their campuses, schools and universities moved onlinea shift that spurred the rapid development of online conferencing and learning platforms. Likewise, companies took advantage of digital toolsfrom communication platforms like Enterprise WeChat and DingTalk to econtractsto keep their businesses running. More than  million online meetings, with more than  million total participants, have been initiated on DingTalk in a single day. Just as technology helped life go on during lockdowns, it has enabled China to roll back restrictions without risking public health. A growing number of local governments are implementing health codea mobilephone app that assigns users a color code indicating their health status. That way, they know when they should be quarantined, when they can safely visit public spaces, and when they can travel. This also lets authorities trackand mitigaterisks. If a person visits, say, an airport or hotel, he or she must show his or her personal QR code. A quick scan will show whether they have visited a highrisk area within the last  days. Such tracingnot only during travel, but also in schools, offices, and other contextsis essential to avoid another COVID outbreak and further economically damaging lockdowns. But the health apps of new digital technologies extend much further, and are transforming Chinas entire healthcare industry. Beyond the rise of online medication purchases, Gbased remote medicalconsultation platforms, such as Ping An Good Doctor, have been flourishing, laying the groundwork for a new industrial model. During the initial outbreak in Wuhan, when local hospitals were overwhelmed with COVID patients, such platforms enabled people to consult with medical experts from Beijing via video link. As Chinas G network coverage improves, such remote consultationsincluding diagnoses, hospital referrals and appointments, and healthmanagement serviceswill become even more widely accessible. This will be particularly valuable for households that currently lack easy access to better medical resources, say, because they live in remote areas. Technology is also propelling research and development in health. For example, Huaweis medical intelligence app EIhealth is being used for viral genome research, antiviral drug development, and medical imaging and analysis. It has accelerated the search for COVID treatments and vaccines, and improved virus detection. And thanks partly to algorithmassisted screening, frontline hospitals in China have already conducted more CT scans in  than in all of last year. A similar digital transformation is sweeping Chinas financial industry. With  million users, Chinas mobile banking apps were the thirdlargest category of apps by customer baseafter shortvideo and shopping appsat the end of March. Chinese mobile banking apps now average  million monthly active users. Beyond making banking more convenient, digital technologies have enabled financial institutions to expand and improve their services. For example, using big data, cloud computing, artificial intelligence, and distributedcomputing architecture, commercial banks have vastly improved their ability to serve small and micro businesses and ordinary households. Financial technology companies have made similar strides. Creditbased financing for small and micro enterprises has long posed a challenge to institutions. Yet with the help of Alipay and online banking services, Ant Financial served more than  million clients and extended  trillion yuan in credit last year. And it is not alone. The growth of Chinas digital economy has been a boon for employment as well. The China Information and Communications Technology Academy reports that in , the digital economy has created  million jobs and accounted for onequarter of overall employmentan . percent increase year on year. Among the main beneficiaries of these new jobs are young, educated Chinese, who now have more opportunities to work as independent professionals in a new kind of gig economy. The increased labor market flexibility brought about by digitalization is likely why urban unemployment hasnt increased significantly in recent years, despite the decline in GDP growth. Although China still lags in some key technologies, there is no denying the tremendous progress in its digital transformation, a process which is set to continue, even accelerate in the coming years, because of the governments planned investments in new infrastructure, including G networks and data centers. China may well be the only major economy to realize positive growth this year. It owes this, in no small measure, to a decade of commitment to heavy investment in techdriven structural transformation. The author is dean of the School of Economics at Fudan University, and director of the China Center for Economic Studies, a Shanghaibased think tank.Project SyndicateThe views dont necessarily reflect those of China Daily. If you have a specific expertise and would like to contribute to China Daily, please contact us at opinionchinadaily.com.cn , and commentchinadaily.com.cn