Global COVID cases surpass m WHO
2020-09-19 09:08
A man wearing a face mask walks by a memorial for COVID victims in front of GreenWood Cemetery in Brooklyn borough of New York, the United States, May , . PhotoXinhua    GENEVA  The number of COVID cases worldwide has surpassed  million, reaching ,, as of Friday, according to the latest figures from the World Health Organization. Globally, as of  CEST  GMT on Friday, ,, confirmed cases of COVID, including , deaths, had been reported to WHO. The US remained the top in both confirmed and death cases, with ,, confirmed cases and , deaths respectively. Following it were India and Brazil, with India having reported ,, confirmed cases and , deaths, and Brazil ,, confirmed cases and , deaths, WHO said. Also among the severelyaffected countries were Russia with ,, confirmed cases, Peru with , cases, Colombia with , cases, Mexico with , cases, South Africa with , cases, Spain with , cases, and Argentina with , cases. On the list of death tolls after the top three were Mexico with , death cases, Britain with , death cases, Italy with , cases, Peru with , cases, France with , cases, Spain with , cases, Iran with , cases, Colombia with , cases, and Russia with , cases. As the world is in the midst of the COVID pandemic, countries across the world  including China, Russia, Britain and the US  are racing to find a vaccine. According to the website of the World Health Organization WHO, as of Sept. , there were  COVID candidate vaccines being developed worldwide, and  of them were in clinical trials. WHO DirectorGeneral Dr. Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus warned at a press briefing on Friday that COVID has shown that collectively, the world was woefully underprepared. There has been a recurring pattern of money being thrown at outbreaks when theyre already in full flow but then funds no longer being available to prevent the next outbreak, Tedros said, urging all countries to dig in together and invest to ensure a pandemic of this magnitude and severity never happens again. The only way to confront these global threats is as a global community, united in solidarity and committed to longterm cooperation, Tedros added.