A virtual Thanksgiving Day Parade in NYC turkey of a decision
2020-09-18 23:40
The  Macys Thanksgiving Day Parade kicks off in Nov . Its a holiday tradition in New York City for nearly  years. Photo by Kong Wenzhengchinadaily.com.cn    The nowmonotonous reason given for the switch to a mostly virtual parade was the COVID pandemic  despite New Yorks novel coronavirus positive test rate recently hovering around  percent for more than a month.New York City was dealt another psychic blow this week when Macys and the mayor announced that no spectators would be permitted at the department stores cherished Thanksgiving Day Parade, a tradition that started more than  years ago and had previously been disrupted only by World War II. Let me say first that New York City has suffered the most in a country that has paid the highest price overall in the world for the novel coronavirus. But the city has largely contained the virus after a torturous six months, albeit at a steep economic cost. It is time for the Big Apple to take some big steps toward getting back to normal. It is disheartening to watch the selfproclaimed greatest city in the world downgrade the th edition of the parade with more than two months to go before Thanksgiving. Its not a good look for a city that is home to such mythical places as the Crossroads of the World and the Canyon of Heroes. What if there is a vaccine by Nov , Thanksgiving Day? For anyone who has been to the parade, its a day when children and adults gaze in wonderment as giant balloon depictions of Pikachu, Snoopy, Spiderman and SpongeBob Square Pants flutter across Broadway. The parade is one of those Gotham City displays of grandeur that make, or should I say made New York, New York. There still will be balloons, but youll have to watch them on TV this year. Macys signature giant character balloons will be flown without the traditional  handlers and instead employ an innovative, specially rigged anchor vehicle framework of five specialty vehicles tested and approved by the NYCDOT Department of Transportation and NYPD, Macys said in a press release Monday. The storied parade started in . It went on hiatus from  through , during World War II, as rubber, helium and gasoline were needed for the American war effort. The usually .mile parade attended by millions was immortalized in , when it was featured in the classic Christmas movie Miracle on th Street. The street is the location of Macys flagship store in Herald Square in Manhattan. Macys, like many other retailers, has been devastated by the pandemic and frankly wasnt doing well beforehand as bricksandmortar retail has gradually faded into history amid the ecommerce wave. The Macys Parade is our love letter and gift to the City of New York and the nation. Under the unique challenges of these unparalleled times, we felt it was important to continue this cherished holiday tradition that has been the opening act to the holiday season for generations of families, Susan Tercero, executive producer of the parade, said in the release. While it will certainly look different in execution, this years Macys Parade celebration will once again serve its historical purpose  to bring joy into the hearts of millions across the nation. The parades reach extends beyond New York and the United States  it attracts spectators and participants from around the world. China has participated in recent years. In , a Chinathemed float appeared for the first time. It was called Beauty of Beijingand featured the Great Wall and the Temple of Heaven. In , a float called The Stone Forest of Kunming, China A Natural Wonder in the Worldcontained a replica of the citys UNESCO heritage site. As Macys correctly said, the parade serves to raise spirits for the holiday season, which up until, well, , was a magical time in New York, showcased by spectacular department store display windows. The parade is also one of the major lateyear public events in the city, along with the lighting of the Rockefeller Center Christmas Tree and the New Years Eve ball drop in Times Square, which appear likely headed to a virtual fate, too. Contact the writer at williamhennellychinadailyusa.com