Lam hails joint efforts behind success of mass virus testing
2020-09-16 18:30
Hong Kong Chief Executive Carrie Lam Cheng Yuetngor gives a banner to the leader of the support team from Fujian province, Zhang Yongyu, as a thankyou for bracing hardships to assist Hong Kongs fight against the pandemic during a ceremony at the Central Government Offices on Tuesday. PHOTO PROVIDED TO CHINA DAILY    Hong Kong Chief Executive Carrie Lam Cheng Yuetngor extended gratitude on Tuesday to everyone who made it possible to conduct the citys unprecedented universal coronavirus testing program. The twoweek program, which ended on Monday, identified  people infected with COVID. The government also announced the further easing of socialdistancing measures effective Friday, saying that many entertainment venues will be allowed to reopen and that restaurants can extend their dinein hours. Speaking at a news conference, Lam thanked the , local medical professionals, , current and retired civil servants, plus the community leaders, logistics workers, and the  mainland nucleicacid test support team members for their efforts. More than . million people were tested through the free, voluntary program, which began on Sept . Of the  cases identified by the program,  were asymptomatic and  were contracted from an unknown source. Lam said the results from the program can give the government a better understanding of the citys pandemic situation and help the government prepare for future antipandemic efforts, offering officials insight when they make decisions on socialdistancing restrictions and crossboundary measures with the mainland and Macao. Secretary for the Civil Service Patrick Nip Takkuen said at the news conference that the program has accomplished its objective of finding asymptomatic COVID carriers and cutting off some local transmission chains in the city. With an immense increase in testing capacity, the government now can conduct more largescale testing for residents, Nip said. The government will continue to conduct regular testing for highrisk groups, he added. Hong Kong on Tuesday recorded no local infections for the first time since early July. Bars, nightclubs, karaoke parlors, theme parks, swimming pools and party rooms will be allowed to reopen for seven days as of Friday. In addition, restaurants dinein service hours will be extended to midnight. Secretary for Food and Health Sophia Chan Siuchee urged residents to stay vigilant and not to let their guard down as the pandemic will not go away until a vaccine is found. She also warned that the pandemic could see a fourth wave in the city this winter. The local catering and bar industry welcomed the relaxation of socialdistancing measures. Yeung Waising, chairman of the Association for Hong Kong Catering Services Management, said extending restaurants dinein hours is good news for the many restaurateurs who are struggling amid the pandemic. Yeung also expressed hope that the government will further ease the socialdistancing rules before the MidAutumn Festival, which this year falls on Oct . Chin Chunwing, vicechairman of the Hong Kong Bar and Club Association, said bars can finally see the light at the end of the tunnel after the twomonth shutdown. At least now we could earn some money to pay our rents, Chin said. He added he believes that local bars will set up a range of strict health measures for their customers to avoid another COVID outbreak emerging from bars.