Wall Street closes broadly higher on deal news, vaccine hopes
2020-09-15 04:11
PhotoAgencies    Sept   US stocks ended sharply higher on Monday as signs of progress in developing a COVID vaccine and a spurt of multibilliondollar deals lifted investor optimism. Drugmaker AstraZeneca resumed its British clinical trials of its COVID vaccine, one of the most advanced in development. Also, Pfizer Inc rose after the drugmaker and German biotech firm BioNTech SE proposed to expand their Phase  pivotal COVID vaccine trial to about , participants. The market loves anything with a vaccine because that is the ultimate solution here. And well see more and more headlines, on that going forward, said Tim Ghriskey, chief investment strategist at Inverness Counsel in New York, New York. Mergerrelated news also lifted the market, he said. Nvidia Corp jumped on plans to buy UKbased chip designer Arm from Japans SoftBank Group Corp for as much as  billion, in a deal set to reshape the global semiconductor landscape. The Philadelphia SE chip index also rose. Oracle gained as the cloud services company said it would team up with Chinas ByteDance to keep TikTok operating in the United States, beating Microsoft Corp in a deal structured as a partnership rather than an outright sale. US stocks are coming off of two straight weeks of losses as investors sold heavyweight technology shares that had powered the benchmark index to record highs in a dramatic recovery from its March lows. Unofficially, the Dow Jones Industrial Average rose . points, or ., to ,., the SP  gained . points, or ., to ,. and the Nasdaq Composite added . points, or ., to ,.. All of the SP  sectors were higher, and tech heavyweight Apple Inc gave the SP  its biggest boost. Tesla Incs shares rebounded after losses last week. Later this week, investors will focus on the Federal Reserves last policy meeting before the Nov.  US presidential elections. In other deal news, Immunomedics Incs shares jumped after Gilead Sciences Incs  billion buyout deal, which is a steep premium to the biotech companys closing price on Friday. Reuters