Fumio Kishida elected as Japan PM, forms new cabinet
2021-10-04 13:06
Fumio Kishida C, former foreign minister, reacts after being elected as the new president at the LDP presidential election in Tokyo on Sept , . PhotoAgenices    TOKYO  Fumio Kishida, leader of Japans ruling Liberal Democratic Party LDP, was elected on Monday as the new prime minister, the th in the Asian countrys political history, forming a new cabinet expected to aim to promote economic recovery while keeping COVID infections under control. In the parliamentary extraordinary session, the yearold received  of  votes in the House of Representatives and  of  votes in the House of Councillors, as the LDPled coalition has a majority in both chambers. This is the real starting point. I will go forth with a strong sense of determination, with a strong resolution, he said at the LDPs headquarters in Tokyo in the morning. In his cabinet, Kishida appointed  firsttimers of the ministerial post, including economic and fiscal policy minister Daishiro Yamagiwa and Takayuki Kobayashi, who would take a new post for economic security with a responsibility to craft a national strategy designed to end the drain of intellectual property from Japan. There are three women in the new Cabinet, vaccination minister Noriko Horiuchi, administrative reform minister Karen Makishima, and Seiko Noda, minister in charge of gender equality and establishing a new agency for childrens policy. Former education minister Hirokazu Matsuno became chief Cabinet secretary, and former environment minister Shunichi Suzuki would replace his brotherinlaw Taro Aso as finance minister of the country. Moreover, Foreign Minister Toshimitsu Motegi and Defense Minister Nobuo Kishi retained their current posts. Kishidas first major test as prime minister will be the upcoming general election. He is planning to hold the vote on Oct , and campaigning for members of the House of Representatives is set to begin on Oct . To excite voters in order to obtain a strong mandate to govern, Kishida will need to change his image as a lowkey consensus builder. As Japans COVID infections declined recently, and nearly  percent of Japans population received a second shot of the COVID vaccine, the new prime minister will have to first handle tasks of gradually lifting the restrictions on social and business activities and opening the border to foreign travelers. Kishida has promised to increase middleclass incomes and reduce wealth disparity under his new form of capitalism, which is viewed as a break from the neoliberal policies that the Japanese government has pursued over the past two decades. In addition, he said that an economic package worth tens of trillions of yen is in preparation to help people and businesses suffering from the COVID pandemic. Kishida served as Japans foreign minister from  to  and had also worked as the policy chief of the ruling LDP. He won the presidential election of the ruling LDP over his contender Taro Kono on Sept , securing  votes over Konos  votes in a runoff. His predecessor Yoshihide Suga did not seek reelection, saying that he wanted to concentrate on fighting the COVID pandemic for the rest of his tenure. Sugas cabinet resigned en masse on Monday morning, little more than a year after its formation, making him the th shortestserving prime minister in the postwar era.