Scientists can learn from Xis solemn words
2020-09-09 08:13
Scientists check samples awaiting tests in the HuoYan laboratory of genomics sequencing company BGI in Shenzhen, Guangdong province. Photo provided to China Daily    Speech on patriotism, selfsacrifice and diligence seen as inspirationalChinas scientific community should learn from President Xi Jinpings speech on the nations pandemic battle and triumph, and carry into the future the torch of patriotism, selfsacrifice and diligence embodied by role models from the fight against COVID, the nations top engineering academy said on Tuesday. On Tuesday, Xi presented the Medal of the Republic to noted respiratory disease expert Zhong Nanshan, as well as granting the national honorary title Peoples Hero to Zhang Boli, a traditional Chinese medicine expert Zhang Dingyu, head of Jinyintan Hospital in Wuhan, Hubei province and Chen Wei, a military biomedical expert. These COVID role models received the awards for their outstanding contribution in novel coronavirusrelated basic research, vaccine development and treatment. Zhong, Chen and Zhang Boli are also academicians of the Chinese Academy of Engineering. Li Xiaohong, the academys president, said Xis speech has highlighted the solidarity, tenacity, altruism and profound respect for science and human lives showcased in the nations battle against the COVID pandemic. His words were solemn, heartfelt, encouraging and moved us to tears, Li said at a homecoming ceremony for the COVID role models to the academy in Beijing. These role models are the shining embodiment of the top qualities our nation demands of us. Li said the scientific community should learn from these role models, be loyal to the cause of the Party and the people, dedicate themselves to the endless pursuit of science and truth and wholeheartedly contribute to the nations rejuvenation without seeking fame or selfinterest. Zhong said in the ceremony that the awards represent the full acknowledgment of the medical and healthcare personnel working at the front line by the Party and the nation. Zhong said there is still much for him to learn, given how new technologies like big data, artificial intelligence and cloud platforms have revolutionized medicine. After hearing Xis speech, Zhong said he is motivated to take on new subjects, and he hopes other scientists will follow his lead. Zhang Boli said the honorary title feels too heavy for one person to bear, adding that the honor belongs to all , medical personnel who rushed to Wuhans aid. President Xis speech underlined the truthful meaning of making peoples health and lives the paramount priority, Zhang said.