Strong vitality of BRI wins wide praise
2021-10-04 06:47
PhotoIC    Fruitful results reflect President Xis vision of shared dream for a better life On Oct , , President Xi Jinping proposed building the st Century Maritime Silk Road during a speech at the Indonesian parliament. A month earlier, he had put forward the strategic framework for building the Silk Road Economic Belt. The Belt and Road Initiative, as the two together are known, has become the most wellreceived international public good and the largest platform for international cooperation over the past eight years. As of Aug , more than  cooperation agreements with  countries, regions and organizations have been signed under the BRI framework. As the world faces the combined impacts of changes unseen in a century and the COVID pandemic, the BRI has demonstrated strong vitality and creativity and will continue to provide impetus for the global economic recovery and contribute to global sustainable development, observers said. Xie Fuzhan, president of the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences, said that Belt and Road construction, which aims for the common development and prosperity of all, has brought concrete benefits to countries and regions along the routes. The outcomes in the past eight years have shown that the BRI conforms to the trend of the times, the law of development and the interests of all countries, thus enjoying broad prospects, Xie said at a seminar in September. Statistics from the Ministry of Commerce show that from  to , the trade volume of goods between China and countries participating in the BRI surpassed . trillion. Chinas direct foreign investment to participating countries reached  billion, and , local jobs were created by BRI programs invested in by Chinese companies. Thanks to the BRI, East Africa now has its first motorway, the Maldives has built its first interisland bridge, Kazakhstan is connected to the sea, Southeast Asia is constructing a highspeed railway, and the Eurasian region is benefiting from the longestdistance freight train service, Cong Peiwu, the Chinese ambassador to Canada, said in June. The fruitful results reflect President Xis comments at a welcoming banquet in honor of guests attending the first Belt and Road Forum for International Cooperation in . The Belt and Road Initiative embodies our shared dream for a better life. The initiative weaves into a common vision the dreams of different countries and peoples. We will work to translate this vision into reality and deliver greater happiness and wellbeing to our people, Xi said. Despite the pandemic, Chinas nonfinancial outbound direct investment in  countries participating in the BRI rose . percent to . billion in , and none of the key projects involved in the BRI have been suspended due to COVID, according to Chinese authorities. The Belt and Road is also being developed into a model of health for protecting peoples safety and wellbeing, as BRI participant countries helped each other to effectively alleviate the shortage of medical supplies amid the pandemic. As of May, China has offered antipandemic assistance to more than  BRI partners and provided vaccines to more than . The ChinaEurope freight train, an important part of the BRI, had transported a total of . million items of medical material as of the end of March, according to the Foreign Ministry. Xu Xiujun, a researcher at the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences Institute of World Economics and Politics, said that the principles for BRI cooperationopenness, inclusiveness and transparencyand of extensive consultation, joint contribution and shared benefits, have been highlighted amid the pandemic. Countries are increasingly aware that mankind is a community with a shared future, and the BRI is one of the important platforms to build this community, Xu said. As President Xi has said on various occasions, the BRI is a public road open to all, and all interested countries are welcome to cooperate and share in its benefits. Speaking via video link at the opening ceremony of the Boao Forum for Asia Annual Conference in April, Xi said that going forward, China will continue to work with other parties in highquality Belt and Road cooperation. We will follow the principles of extensive consultation, joint contribution and shared benefits, and champion the philosophy of open, green and clean cooperation, in a bid to make Belt and Road cooperation highstandard, peoplecentered and sustainable, he said. Luo Zhaohui, chairman of the China International Development Cooperation Agency, said that Chinas foreign aid will make new contributions to the joint construction of the Belt and Road. Chinas international development cooperation will continue to give priority to the countries involved in the BRI and provide stronger impetus, greater space and better paths for Belt and Road construction so as to make it an important propeller for global sustainable development, Luo said at the Sustainable Development Forum  on Sept . Nadia Helmy, a political science professor at Egypts BeniSuef University and an expert on Chinese politics, told CRI Online that, through the BRI, China is providing a new way for realizing international business prosperity and deepening regional cooperation, thus making the process of globalization more inclusive. The BRI is an epochmaking initiative and a path to winwin cooperation, she said.