, children to be immunized against polio and measles in Somalia
2020-09-02 20:15
PhotoVCG    The World Health Organization through UNICEF Somalia has started a vaccination campaign in southeastern Somalias Banadir administrative region to vaccinate some , children against polio and measles. The program has been launched at a time when health workers have paused other regular and planned activities, such as the integrated poliomeasles campaign, as they worked to prevent the spread of COVID and provide muchneeded treatment for infected people. UNICEF Somalia said health workers also will offer children vitamin A and deworming tablets at fixed and outreach sites. According to Asma Ali, acting head of the WHOs Polio Program in Somalia, health workers will observe comprehensive COVID infection prevention measures, such as regular hand washing and wearing face masks, to keep families safe. In addition, health workers will share information with families on how to prevent the further spread of COVID. This campaign in Banadir was supposed to take place in November last year, following a similar intervention in the rest of the country, but was postponed to  due to some technical delays. Unfortunately, COVID came about and took over. Thankfully, we now have a chance to continue to boost the immunity of so many young children again, Ali said. After four years without a single case of wild polio, the African region was certified free of the wild polio virus. The announcement was made at a virtual session of the th WHO Regional Committee for Africa. Penelope Campbell, the chief of health at UNICEF Somalia, said as the COVID response continues, it is critical that immunization drives are sustained at the same time. Measles and polio are vaccinepreventable diseases and through this campaign, we can stop the further spread of these outbreaks and save the lives of countless children, Campbell said. Campbell added that since the start of the year,  children in Banadir have reportedly been infected with measles, which accounts for about half of the total cases in the country. Mamunur Malik, WHO Somalia Representative, emphasized to Somali communities that every adult has a responsibility to help Somali children lead healthy lives. I would like to encourage parents, caregivers and all adults in Banadir and surrounding areas to make the most of this opportunity and visit vaccination sites to ensure every child aged under five is vaccinated against polio and measles, and that every child receives additional supplements to keep them healthy. As caregivers we all have an obligation to ensure our children lead healthy and productive lives, Malik said.