Upholding multilateralism a key ChinaEU consensus FM
2020-09-02 09:44
German President FrankWalter Steinmeier meets with visiting Chinese State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi in Berlin, Germany on Sept , . PhotoXinhua    State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi, who wrapped up a fivenation European tour on Tuesday, said upholding multilateralism and resisting unilateralism is one of the three key consensus reached during his trip. He expressed that the strongest call from the European nations is to firmly uphold multilateralism, including China and Europe strengthening coordination, upholding multilateralism, practicing multilateralism, abiding by multilateral agreements and reinforcing multilateral institutions. The second key consensus is to bolster unity and cooperation and oppose decoupling. He said all the countries agree to strengthen cooperation between China and Europe in pandemic response and restart personnel exchanges and practical cooperation to contribute to global economic recovery. The third key consensus, according to the top Chinese diplomat, is to maintain the overall situation of the ChinaEU relations and properly manage differences. He said all parties agree that they should stick to the comprehensive strategic partnership and maintain the overall good momentum of the relationship. As to the differences that exist between the two sides, he said they should be managed in a constructive way, by deepening understanding through equal dialogue, by increasing mutual trust through frank communication, and by achieving a winwin situation through mutually beneficial cooperation. Wang made the remarks at a joint news conference with German Foreign Minister Heiko Maas in Berlin on Tuesday. Wang said ChinaEU relations are facing important opportunities, and the two sides should focus on preparing for the upcoming highlevel exchange between Chinese and EU leaders, concluding the bilateral Comprehensive Agreement on Investment as well as the ChinaEU  Strategic Agenda for Cooperation as early as possible, fostering a green and digital partnership, strengthening cooperation in digital economy and beefing up support for multilateral institutions. On Tuesday, Wang also met German President FrankWalter Steinmeier, when both sides highlighted the importance of their relations. Steinmeier stressed that Germany always values its relations with China, and is willing to maintain a closer and lasting relationship with China, noting that it is especially necessary under the current tense global situation. The German president reaffirms his countrys oneChina principle, and its position of upholding multilateralism in global affairs. He expressed that Germany disagrees with the socalled decoupling, and doesnt want the world to be divided against each other. Wang said that when the prevention and control of the COVID pandemic have become a regular practice, his trip shows that China cherishes its relations with Germany and Europe. He said that China is willing to work with Germany and the EU in strengthening international cooperation against COVID, such as in vaccine development and application, to totally defeat the novel coronavirus, while at the same time upholding and practicing multilateralism and opposing unilateral bullying, to safeguard basic norms governing international relations and international fairness and justice. Germany was the last stop of Wangs fivenation tour, which also took him to Italy, the Netherlands, Norway and France.