EU to participate in COVAX initiative for equal access to COVID vaccine
2020-09-01 10:09
A woman holds a small bottle labeled with a Vaccine COVID sticker and a medical syringe in this illustration taken on April , . PhotoAgencies    BRUSSELS  European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen said on Monday that her institution is ready to join the COVAX Facility, a pooled procurement mechanism for vaccines against COVID. The Commission also announced a  millioneuro . million US dollars contribution in guarantees to support COVAX, which aims to ensure equal and fair access to vaccines for low and middle income countries, a European Commission media release stated. Jutta Urpilainen, European Commissioner for international partnerships, noted that only by securing equitable access to COVID vaccines across the world, will we end the pandemic and ensure a sustainable recovery. The European Union EUs participation in COVAX will be complementary to the ongoing EU negotiations with vaccine companies that aim at scaling up the manufacturing capacity of vaccine producers, the media release noted. The COVAX Facility aims to purchase two billion vaccine doses by the end of  by negotiating with a diversified portfolio of suppliers covering different scientific technologies, times of delivery and prices. Launched in April , the COVAX is coled by the Vaccine Alliance Gavi, the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations CEPI and the World Health Organization WHO. According to the WHO, nine CEPIsupported candidate vaccines are currently parts of COVAX, with further nine under evaluation. The talks are ongoing with additional producers. The  vaccine candidates being developed in various clinical phases or discovery stages are mainly from the United States, the United Kingdom, China, Germany, Australia and South Korea. To date,  potentially selffinancing countries have expressed interest in joining COVAX, while  low and middleincome economies are eligible to be supported by the COVAX Advance Market Commitment.