US economy stares at a double dip
2020-08-29 08:57
LI MINChina Daily    The double dip is not a dance. It is the timehonored tendency of the US economy to relapse into recession after a temporary recovery. Over the years, it has happened far more often than not. Notwithstanding frothy financial markets, which currently are discounting the nirvana of an uninterrupted Vshaped recovery, there is a compelling case for another double dip in the aftermath of the United States devastating COVID shock. The daunting history of the US business cycle warns against complacency. Double dipsdefined simply as a decline in quarterly real GDP following a temporary reboundhave occurred in eight of the  recessions since the end of World War II. The only exceptions were the recessions of , the brief contraction of , and the mild downturn of . All the others contained double dips, and two featured triple dipstwo false starts followed by relapses. Severe downturn usually leads to another recession The double dip does not, of course, come out of thin air. It reflects the combination of lingering vulnerability in the underlying economy and aftershocks from the initial recessionary blow. As a general rule, the more severe the downturn, the greater the damage, the longer the recovery, and the higher the likelihood of a double dip. That was the case in the sharp recessions of , , and , as well as in the major contraction that accompanied the  global financial crisis. The current recession is a classic setup for a double dip. Lingering vulnerability is hardly a question in the aftermath of the . percent annualized plunge in the second quarter of by far the sharpest quarterly decline on record. Damaged as never before by the unprecedented lockdown to combat the initial outbreak of COVID, the economy has barely begun to heal. A sharp rebound in the current quarter is simple arithmeticand virtually guaranteed by the partial reopening of shuttered businesses. But will it stick, or will there be a relapse? Financial markets arent the least bit worried about a relapse, owing largely to unprecedented monetary easing, which has evoked the timehonored maxim dont fight the Fed. Added comfort comes from equally unprecedented fiscal relief aimed at mitigating the pandemicrelated shock to businesses and households.