Pummeled hotels in long wait for recovery
2020-08-27 09:05
A worker sweeps an empty courtyard outside the Lotte New York Palace hotel as the coronavirus outbreak continued to affect the tourism industry in Manhattan, New York City, US, March , . PhotoAgencies    The novel coronavirus has battered the US hotel industry as stateimposed travel restrictions probably mean bookings wont recover until the third quarter of  at the earliest, industry officials said on Monday. Many hotel operators have had trouble making mortgage payments, and federal aid or other government programs such as funds for temporarily housing the homeless, while welcome, are viewed as stopgap measures. The effect of the COVID pandemic on the industry is nine times greater than the decline in bookings following the Sept ,, terrorist attacks in New York and Washington, the American Hotel and Lodging Association said. Simply put, there are not enough customers to keep hotels financially sound. Mike Somers, CEO of the New Hampshire Lodging and Restaurant Association in Concord, was downbeat on the industrys immediate prospects. Demand is soft, he said. Customers are terrified about traveling. Anyone coming to New Hampshire from outside New England must quarantine for  days. That puts pressure on the industry. Somers said he expected little change until a vaccine is developed and widely distributed. Elected officials are being cautious and want to avoid a spike in cases, he said. Things aret going to get significantly better anytime soon. Its a nationwide problem. The BairdSTR Hotel Stock Index is down . percent through July  as investors flee the hospitality industry. Hotel stocks underperformed again in July as industrywide occupancy growth continued to moderate on a weekly basis, said Michael Bellisario, senior hotel research analyst at Baird, an investment bank and wealth management company based in Milwaukee, in a report. Investors remain focused on the impact of rising coronavirus case counts on broader travel trends, and prior optimism about prospects for business travel to return in a meaningful way this fall has faded. Companies tracked in the index include Extended Stay America, Hilton, Hyatt, InterContinental, Marriott and Wyndham. The hotel industry in New York City is facing its worst crisis in nearly  years, said Vijay Dandapani, CEO of the Hotel Association of New York City, in an email to China Daily. The consensus is that a recovery will not begin until the third quarter of next year with revenue approaching  levels in . He said about  of the citys  hotels have closed temporarily or permanently and another  are housing the homeless as part of an effort to limit the spread of the virus. Federal aid can help, but its a bit like keeping a patient on dialysisdebilitated and never able to be selfreliant, Dandapani said. During the coronavirus outbreak, the city moved roughly , homeless people from shelters into  hotels across the city,  of which are in Manhattan.