Japans ruling partys new leader to take office as prime minister, launch new govt
2021-10-03 13:07
Fumio Kishida C reacts after being elected as the new president at the LDP presidential election in Tokyo on September , . PhotoAgencies    TOKYO  The newly elected leader of Japans ruling Liberal Democratic Party LDP, Fumio Kishida, will take office as the Japanese prime minister on Monday and launch his new government, aiming to promote economic recovery while keeping COVID infections under control. With the LDPled ruling coalition controlling both chambers, the yearold Kishida is almost guaranteed to be elected prime minister at an extraordinary parliamentary session on Monday. The new leader plans to dissolve the House of Representatives on Oct , and consequently, a general election is likely to be held on Nov , local media reported, citing sources. Kishida has promised to increase middleclass incomes and reduce wealth disparity under his new form of capitalism, which is viewed as a break from the neoliberal policies that the Japanese government has pursued over the past two decades. In addition, he said that an economic package worth tens of trillions of yen is in preparation to help people and businesses suffering from the COVID pandemic. His predecessor Yoshihide Suga, who took office last year, announced not to seek reelection last month amid the public dissatisfaction with his COVID response. As Japans COVID infections declined recently, and nearly  percent of Japans population received a second shot of the COVID vaccine, Kishida will need to handle tasks of gradually lifting the restrictions on social and business activities and opening the border to foreign travelers. Kishida plans to finish the lineup of his cabinet on Sunday. In his prospective Cabinet, former education minister Hirokazu Matsuno, , is set to become chief Cabinet secretary, and former environment minister Shunichi Suzuki, , is likely to replace his brotherinlaw Taro Aso as finance minister of the country, local media reported. Kishida also plans to create a new ministerial post for economic security with a responsibility to craft a national strategy designed to end the drain of intellectual property from Japan. It is not known who will take up the post so far.