UK govt urged to help pandemics forgotten victims
2020-08-26 09:07
Ayse Mehmet L, whose daughter Sonya Kaygan died from the coronavirus disease COVID, has tears wiped from her face by her threeyearold granddaughter at her home in Enfield, Britain, April , . PhotoAgencies    More funds sought for research into the longterm impact of COVID disease An influential group of elected United Kingdom lawmakers has called on Prime Minister Boris Johnson to meet families of people who have died from COVID. The AllParty Parliamentary Group on Coronavirus also wants him to increase funding for research into the longterm impacts of the disease. The recommendations are part of the groups latest biweekly report and follow it meeting , people who either lost loved ones or were left with longterm health issues, a phenomenon known as long COVID, the Guardian newspaper reported. The MPs studied more than  submissions before concluding long COVID has at least  reoccurring symptoms, including breathing difficulties, exhaustion, purple toes, and aching muscles. Layla Moran, the Liberal Democrat MP who chairs the group, told the paper Those living with the longterm impact of COVID have become the forgotten victims of this pandemic. Many are suffering daily from debilitating symptoms but feel theyre not being listened to or taken seriously. She said the understudied and undersupported cohort includes people who have not been hospitalized or tested. The parliamentary group believes a better understanding of long COVID would help as the UK prepares for a feared second wave of novel coronavirus, which causes COVID. The group also called for a judicial inquiry to be held into the UKs experience of the pandemic. The BBC, meanwhile, reports that thousands of people who contracted novel coronavirus did so while in hospital, a fact that is part of a Kings College London study of  UK hospitals. Researchers said at least one person in eight who subsequently tested positive for the virus caught it while in hospital. But, far from being alarmed by the finding, they said the ratio was actually rather low and proved effective infection control was in place. Ben Carter, the studys lead author, told the broadcaster The majority of these patients had already been in hospital for a long time. They were older, frailer, and had preexisting health conditions. The government, meanwhile, believes schools in England and Wales will also have effective infection control in place when they reopen early next month. Students went back to class in Northern Ireland on Monday and in Scotland on Aug . Scotlands education minister, John Swinney, said on Tuesday that all secondary school students there are now being advised to start wearing face coverings in communal areas starting on Monday. He said on BBC Radio Scotlands Good Morning Scotland This is not going to be mandatory. We are recommending this is what should be done and we will encourage schools to pursue that as part of the work to maintain safety within schools. The move followed the World Health Organization saying on the weekend that secondary school students should wear face coverings if possible. In the meantime, the search for an effective vaccine continues and got a boost on Tuesday when Cambridgeheadquartered BritishSwedish multinational AstraZeneca said it has started a UKbased trial for a potential antibodybased COVID treatment involving  healthy UK residents. The Evening Standard newspaper said the company hopes the treatment will work for people who are unsuitable for a vaccination and offer both protection and help in recovering. The paper quoted Mene Pangalos, an RD executive with the companys BioPharmaceuticals subsidiary as saying This trial is an important milestone in the development of our monoclonal antibody combination to prevent or treat COVID. AstraZeneca is also developing a potential vaccine with scientists at the University of Oxford. Professor Andrew Pollard, who is involved in that project, said on BBC Radio s Today program on Tuesday that around , people worldwide are currently being given that potential vaccine as part of the testing process. On the European mainland, Germany reported on Tuesday its economy contracted by a recordbreaking . percent in the second quarter. The Reuters news agency said the slump was more pronounced than the financial crisis of . And infections on the continent continue to rise following lockdown relaxations. Spain has been hardesthit, with more than , new cases recorded during the past two weeks.