Schools will be safe, Johnson tells parents
2020-08-25 09:14
A general view inside an empty classroom at a primary school in Hertford, after the majority of schools in the UK closed while the spread of the coronavirus disease COVID continues. Hertford, Britain on March , . PhotoAgencies    Prime minister assures Britons return to classroom will not risk infections Britains prime minister has strongly urged parents to send their children back to school when classes resume after an almost halfyear hiatus caused by the novel coronavirus pandemic. Boris Johnson said a return to class will pose no real health risk, while a lack of schooling would threaten an entire generation. The United Kingdoms four chief medical officers, who represent England, Northern Ireland, Scotland, and Wales, shared a similar message in a joint statement. Schools in Scotland have been open for some time, while those in Northern Ireland resumed on Monday, and lessons in England and Wales will start again in early September. Johnson said I have previously spoken about the moral duty to reopen schools to all pupils safely. We have always been guided by our scientific and medical experts, and we now know far more about coronavirus than we did earlier this year. He insisted the risk of contracting COVID in school is very small and it is far more damaging for a childs development and their health and wellbeing to be away from school any longer. He spoke after teaching unions raised concerns that schools could become a breeding ground for the virus. And his assurances were backed up by a Public Health England study that shows only  children and  staff were infected with novel coronavirus from among the more than  million children who attended partially reopened schools during June. The results showed they were more likely to have caught the virus at home, according to Jenny Harries, Englands deputy chief medical officer. She said on the BBCs Breakfast program that the study should reassure parents and teachers. Education Secretary Gavin Williamson wrote in the Sunday Times education is more important than ever. While concern about the safety of schools has been a hot topic recently, so too has the risk posed by illegal house parties, something that has prompted the government to give police forces the power to fine organizers up to , pounds , starting on Friday. The BBC quoted Home Secretary Priti Patel as saying These gatherings are dangerous and those who organize them show a blatant disregard for the safety of others. They have proliferated as a result of nightclubs and music festivals remaining outlawed as part of the UKs lockdown, something that has made such venues among the hardest hit by the pandemic. Travel operators also continue to suffer, with the Guardian newspaper reporting the Association of British Travel Agents, which is known as Abta, is bracing for many more job losses in addition to the , the industry has already endured. Abta, which says  percent of UK jobs have already been lost, is calling on the government to extend its furlough program, which ensures workers who cannot safely do their jobs get  percent of their salaries, up to a maximum of , pounds a month. The program has supported around  million workers but is due to end in October. Abta said more than , jobs in the travel sector have been impacted, and  percent of businesses anticipate job cuts. It also wants more testing at airports and tax cuts for the industry. Mark Tanzer, Abtas chief executive, told the Guardian Sadly, businesses continue to be adversely affected and jobs are being lost at an alarming rate. And the paper added that job losses, which have been especially heavy in the retail and manufacturing sectors, threaten to widen Englands northsouth divide because they have been heavier in the North. Analysis undertaken by the Labour Party, the UKs main opposition, found that between  and  percent of the workforce in much of the North is employed in retail and manufacturing jobs, compared to . percent in London. The party also called on the government to extend the furlough program. With life unlikely to return to normal until a vaccine is widely available, the Reuters news agency reported that most Britons are willing to wait for their jabs until after health workers in other countries get theirs, if that would help end the pandemic sooner. The finding was among the results of a survey conducted by polling company Savanta ComRes on behalf of the antipoverty organization The ONE Campaign. Romilly Greenhill, The ONE Campaigns UK director, told Reuters British people clearly understand this global pandemic demands a global response. It simply wont work for each country to go its own way. Elsewhere in Europe, Russia reported , new novel coronavirus cases on Monday and France reported almost , new cases, its highest figure since May. Italy said its daily infections had doubled in the past five days, with more than , recorded on Sunday. And the UK registered , new cases, making Sunday the fourth consecutive day with daily infections above ,.