Premier Lis speech at the Third LancangMekong Cooperation Leaders Meeting
2020-08-24 19:43
Speech by H.E. Li KeqiangPremier of the State Council ofThe Peoples Republic of ChinaAt the Third LancangMekong Cooperation Leaders MeetingBeijing,  August Your Excellency Prime Minister Thongloun Sisoulith,Colleagues,I am delighted to meet you via video link for the third LancangMekong Cooperation LMC Leaders Meeting. I wish to thank our cochair the Lao PDR and Prime Minister Thongloun for the tremendous efforts made for the meeting.We meet today under the theme of Enhancing Partnership for Shared Prosperity. President Xi Jinping recently called for making global governance more inclusive, multilateral frameworks more effective and regional cooperation more active. Drinking water from the same river, we, the LMC countries, are close as one family living in a community with a shared future. Enhancing mutually beneficial cooperation is both conducive to our own interests and contributing to others success, as it will boost our economic and social development and peoples wellbeing, and cement the foundation for regional prosperity and stability.The Chinese believe that the supreme good is like water water nurtures all living things without competing with them. The launch of the LMC has been motivated by a river, which is both an important part of our cooperation and an inspiration for the LMC spirit of friendship and mutual benefit.Over the past four years, the LMC has grown rapidly and entered a period of allround development, in which notable progress has been made in institution building, strategic planning, financial support and practical cooperation. The LMC has become a new fountain of strength for regional development and delivered real benefits to people of our countries.We have brought the cooperation mechanisms on water resources onto a fast track. We held the first Ministerial Meeting on LancangMekong Water Resources Cooperation and the first Water Resources Cooperation Forum. China directly provided floodseason hydrological data of the Lancang River to the Mekong countries and offered timely updates on upstream flow changes. Despite its own difficulties, China increased outbound water flow in the drought season to help downstream countries mitigate droughts. Solid cooperation has also been carried out under the Water Resources Cooperation Center, the Environmental Cooperation Center and the Global Center for Mekong River Studies.We have strengthened economic cooperation and trade ties, which gave a strong boost to our economic growth. Drawing from the special credit line for industrial capacity and equipment manufacturing cooperation, the concessional loans for foreign aid and preferential export buyers credit, China has supported over  major projects including the Siem Reap New International Airport, the Kyaukpyu deepwater port and the Vinh Tan Coalfired Power Plant. Chinese companies are actively involved in building the Sihanoukville Special Economic Zone, the Rayong Industrial Zone and the Saysettha Development Zone, generating tax revenues and jobs for host countries and achieving mutual benefit.We have put people first in the LMC and increased their wellbeing. The LMC Special Fund is heavily invested in improving peoples lives and has sponsored over  programs in health, education, poverty reduction and womens welfare. The Fund has supported ,plus training opportunities for people in the Mekong countries, bringing out the regions potential of human resources.Faced with COVID since early this year, we have pulled together and supported each other in combating the virus and reviving regional growth. In the first half of this year, Chinas trade with and investment in the Mekong countries grew by . and . respectively, bucking the trend of global slowdown. Mekong countries saw their agricultural exports to China rise by . over the same period last year. Tracks are being laid along the ChinaLaos Railway at a pace of one kilometer per day. Construction of the expressway linking Phnom Penh and Sihanoukville and other key projects has been resumed. The above progress has helped regional countries get their economic and social development back to normal.Colleagues,In the context of a fluid and complex international situation and severe shocks to the global and regional economies, we face the common task of sustaining the good momentum of our cooperation to help tackle risks and challenges and achieve shared progress. To this end, China wishes to propose the following We need to take our cooperation in water resources to a new high. The legitimate rights and interests of all countries in developing and utilizing their water resources as appropriate should be fully respected. Meanwhile, we need to accommodate each others interests and concerns, and advance cooperation by building consensus.China is ready to provide more help to the best of its ability for the Mekong countries to make better use of water resources. Starting from this year, China will share Lancang Rivers hydrological data for the whole year with the Mekong countries. China will work with your countries to establish a LancangMekong Water Resources Cooperation Information Sharing Platform to help us better tackle climate change and natural disasters such as floods and droughts.We need to hold the Ministerial Meeting of LancangMekong Water Resources Cooperation and the Water Resources Cooperation Forum on a regular basis, fully implement the FiveYear Action Plan on LancangMekong Water Resources Cooperation  and deliver the cooperation projects on dam safety and flood early warning to enhance our capacity for integrated river basin management and water resources management. We need to expand trade ties and connectivity cooperation. China is ready to further synergize the Belt and Road Initiative with your development strategies for deeper cooperation among us.The New International LandSea Trade Corridor runs through western China and connects Southeast Asia with the Eurasian continent. By harnessing the transportation routes over both land and sea, the Corridor is exerting a positive impact on the interconnected development across different regions. Greater synergy between the LMC and the New Trade Corridor will make trade routes more convenient and enable the leveraging of more resources from western and southwestern China and other ASEAN countries, and thus channel more inputs to the Mekong countries. This will help optimize the allocation of resources, keep industrial and supply chains stable, and spur coordinated development.China is ready to work with the Mekong countries to fully implement the CoChairs Statement on Cooperation of Synergizing the LancangMekong Cooperation and the New International LandSea Trade Corridor adopted at the meeting, and inject new impetus into regional development.We also need to work toward signing the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership RCEP agreement within this year to raise regional economic integration to a higher level and jointly uphold free trade.We need to ensure the success of the ChinaLaos and the ChinaThailand railways as part of the regional transportation arteries linking the south and the north.Industrial cooperation should be boosted, including expeditiously drafting the FiveYear Development Plan for LMC CrossBorder Economic Cooperation and intensifying MultiNation MultiPark cooperation.Financial cooperation should be deepened to provide strong, sustainable financial support for connectivity.With COVID control as a new normal, we need to build a network of fast tracks and green lanes across the region to facilitate the flow of people and goods, and keep industrial and supply chains stable.The Internet economy buoyed by epidemic control needs should be further developed. We should advance innovation in digital technology and expand digital connectivity to fuel the digital transformation and upgrading of our economy and society. We need to deepen cooperation on sustainable development. We need to implement the ThreeYear Action Plan on Agricultural Cooperation  at a faster pace and ensure the success of the LMC Bumper Harvest projects. We need to disseminate and share technologies on crop processing and agroproduct storage, upgrade the agroproduct quality and safety systems, and build agroindustrial parks to strengthen our subregions competitiveness in agriculture. China welcomes more quality agroproducts, livestock and byproducts from Mekong countries.We also need to expedite the implementation of the LancangMekong Environmental Cooperation Strategy, and step up cooperation to tackle climate change, improve air quality, and protect biodiversity. We need to upgrade cooperation on public health. China will set up a special fund for public health under the framework of the LMC Special Fund, and continue to provide material and technical support to Mekong countries to the best of our ability.Once developed and deployed in China, COVID vaccines will be provided to Mekong countries on a priority basis.We need to carry out information sharing and joint responses in major public health emergencies, and strengthen cooperation in early warning on communicable diseases. Public health projects such as the Joint Control Action for Tropical Diseases, Materia Medica and Chinese AcupunctureMoxibustion benefiting Mekong countries will be taken forward.International solidarity and cooperation is crucial for the global fight against COVID. China will work with Mekong countries to support the World Health Organization WHO in better playing its role. We need to strengthen cooperation on peoples livelihood. China will work with Mekong countries to jointly implement projects on disaster prevention and mitigation, sanitation and health in rural areas, and infant and young child nutrition and health to benefit more people and communities. The integrated development of underdeveloped communities and business startups in ethnic regions will be promoted through cooperation programs.We need to revitalize tourism by holding events like the LancangMekong Mayors Culture and Tourism Forum, exploring flexible ways such as cloud tourism, and fully capitalizing on our multiethnic culture and world heritage sites. This will foster a new format for the growth of tourism alongside regular COVID response. We need to uphold the spirit of openness and inclusiveness. We will strengthen exchanges and mutual learning between various cooperation frameworks. The LMCs interaction and cooperation with the Greater Mekong Subregion Economic Cooperation Program GMS, the AyeyawadyChao PhrayaMekong Economic Cooperation Strategy ACMECS and the Mekong River Commission MRC will be facilitated, including experience sharing and joint programs. We will actively explore cooperation with Japan, the ROK, the EU and other third parties.China supports ASEAN centrality in East Asian cooperation. By promoting LancangMekong cooperation, we hope to contribute to ASEANs community building and deepen the ChinaASEAN strategic partnership.Colleagues,This year, the Chinese government has scaled up macro policy response to cushion the shock of COVID. While going all out to contain the virus, we lost no time in reopening the economy. Our measures to help businesses get through the tough times and reinvigorate the market are paying off.Thanks to these efforts, we have achieved significant progress in both COVID response and socioeconomic development. The economy is steadily recovering. Business activities are picking up month by month. Growth in the second quarter exceeded expectations. Economic structure is improving. The digital and intelligent transformation of industries is notably speeding up. Reform and opening up are further deepening.Given the strong resilience and latitude of the Chinese economy, and with hard work, we will be able to deliver positive growth for the whole year. Chinas development will create even more cooperation opportunities for Mekong countries and the rest of the world.Colleagues,Running through nearly , kilometers, the LancangMekong River admits countless streams along the way and nourishes all people living on its banks. To strengthen LancangMekong cooperation requires the same open and inclusive spirit and the combined efforts from all sectors in order to usher in a brighter future for people in the subregion.China welcomes our new cochair Myanmar. We look forward to working with the Mekong countries to deepen and expand LancangMekong cooperation, and provide stronger impetus for the development and prosperity in our subregion and beyond.Thank you.