Trump campaign announces secondterm agenda ahead of GOP convention
2020-08-24 16:30
US President Donald Trump holds a pizza that he had just been handed at the take away counter of the Arcaro and Genell Restaurant during the presidents campaign visit to Old Forge, Pennsylvania, US, Aug , . PhotoAgencies    WASHINGTON  US President Donald Trumps reelection campaign announced a set of core priorities for his second term on Sunday night ahead of the  Republican National Convention RNC. The priorities, under the banner of Fighting for You, will focus on jobs, eradicating COVID, healthcare, education, immigration, innovation, foreign policy, and other areas, according to the campaign. If reelected, Trump vows to create  million new jobs in  months, develop a vaccine against the coronavirus by the end of this year, establish permanent manned presence on the Moon, and send the first manned mission to Mars, among others. The campaign also said Trump will continue to pursue America First foreign policy. The president will further illuminate these plans during his acceptance speech Thursday, it said. Over the coming weeks, the president will be sharing additional details about his plans through policyfocused speeches on the campaign trail. Trumps speech to accept the  Republican presidential nomination will be delivered on the South Lawn of the White House on Thursday night despite criticism that he should not use a federal property as the backdrop for a campaign event. This years RNC will kick off on Monday in Charlotte, North Carolina. Over  delegates, a small portion of the total, will meet in person there to formally nominate Trump and Vice President Mike Pence for the  Republican ticket. The Republican National Committee said on Sunday that it has unanimously voted to forego the Convention Committee on Platform, in appreciation of the fact that it did not want a small contingent of delegates formulating a new platform. The committee enthusiastically supports President Trump and continues to reject the policy positions of the ObamaBiden Administration, said a statement. The  Republican National Convention will adjourn without adopting a new platform until the  Republican National Convention. Party platforms are traditionally used to lay out the party and candidates ideas, beliefs and goals. In , the GOP platform was  pages long. This years Democratic platform is  pages long. Former US Vice President Joe Biden formally accepted the Democratic Partys  presidential nominee on the final night of this years Democratic National Convention last week. Biden leads Trump by . percentage points nationally, according to the RealClearPolitics polling average. Trump, however, has repeatedly dismissed polls showing him falling behind.