China helps international vaccine drive
2021-11-19 07:45
A worker transfers a shipment of Chinas Sinovac COVID vaccine at Phnom Penh International Airport in Phnom Penh, Cambodia, on Wednesday. PHEARUMXINHUA    China has been living up to its promise of making COVID vaccines an international public good via donations, sales and joint manufacturing, officials and drugmakers have said. The beneficiaries include countries and regions involved in the Belt and Road Initiative. During an online discussion attended by foreign ministers and leaders of international organizations on Nov , Chinas ambassador to the United States, Qin Gang, said China has provided more than . billion doses of vaccines to more than  countries. By the end of the year, the country is aiming to provide a total of  billion doses, he said. Qin said China has also supplied over  million vaccine doses and donated  million to the global vaccinesharing platform COVAX. More than  percent of vaccines provided by China for global use have been shipped to developing countries. He said solidarity and cooperation are the most powerful weapons to defeat COVID, and called on all countries to take a scientific attitude and oppose stigmatization and politicization of the novel coronavirus. With COVID infections on the rise in some countries and manufacturing capacity for vaccines growing, the World Health Organization has set the goal of vaccinating  percent of the population of every country by the end of this year. WHO DirectorGeneral Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said at a briefing early last month that the target is within reach if vaccines can be distributed equitably worldwide. Through dose sharing, swaps, technology transfers and other priority actions, it is possible to reduce deaths and minimize suffering, prevent health systems from being overwhelmed, resume social and economic activities, and reduce the risk of dangerous new variants, he said. China has been a steady and reliable force in giving momentum to the realization of that goal, with many countries involved in the BRI receiving different forms of virus containment aid from China. By early August, China had delivered  million doses of vaccines to cosponsors of a Belt and Road partnership on COVID vaccine cooperation, the Foreign Ministry said. China has been actively implementing the partnership and has reached agreements with partners on a total of  million doses of vaccines, of which  million doses had been delivered by August. Chinese companies have started joint production with four cosponsors of the partnership and are discussing joint production with other countries. Four million doses of COVID vaccines made by Chinese drugmaker Sinopharm arrived in Myanmar on Nov , marking the final delivery of  million doses purchased by Myanmar authorities. The Chinese embassy in Myanmar said China had helped Myanmar get in touch with Chinese vaccine developers and facilitated its acquisition of vaccines speedily and at the most favorable price. By early this month, China had provided nearly . million doses of Chinesemade vaccines to Myanmar, including . million given as donations, the embassy said. The first batch of vaccines donated to Tanzania arrived this month, as well as the second batches of doses donated to Rwanda and Vanuatu. Albert Tuyishime, a Rwandan health official, said during a handover ceremony that the donation was expected to ease the countrys vaccine shortage. We are happy to receive this second batch, which is again a sign of good collaboration and support from the Chinese government in our fight against this pandemic, Xinhua News Agency quoted Tuyishime as saying. We are taking China as one of the leaders in promoting this equitable distribution of vaccines for COVID. Cansino Biologics, a Chinese company that has created a onedose COVID vaccine, said recently that it had set up vaccine packaging plants in Mexico, Pakistan and Malaysia by September.