China, two neighbors eye vaccine work
2020-08-22 07:29
A woman holds a small bottle labeled with a Vaccine COVID sticker and a medical syringe in this illustration taken on April , . PhotoAgencies    China has reached agreements with Indonesia and Pakistan on cooperation to develop COVID vaccines as their foreign ministers met in Hainan province. China and Indonesia should focus on the urgent need to promote cooperation on the development of vaccines, said State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi during a meeting with his Indonesian counterpart Retno Marsudi on Thursday. China has made it clear that its vaccines, if developed successfully, will be provided as a global public good, and developing countries will have priorities in accessing them, Wang said. China and Indonesia are leading other countries in the region in vaccine cooperation, and the two countries have jointly carried out phasethree trials of a vaccine candidate in Indonesia, Wang added. China supports its companies in conducting allaround cooperation with Indonesia to develop and use COVID vaccines, he said. Retno Marsudi said her country totally agrees that the two countries should keep up good exchanges, and she hopes COVID vaccines will benefit developing countries in a fair, accessible and economical manner, in which China will play a vital role. Chinas Sinovac Biotech Ltd launched latestage human trials on Aug  involving as many as , volunteers in Indonesia for a COVID vaccine candidate that is being jointly developed with Indonesias Bio Farma, Reuters reported. Xinhua News Agency said a Chinese inactivated COVID vaccine has begun phasethree clinical trials in Peru, citing a source from the vaccines developer China National Biotec Group, affiliated with Sinopharm. Clinical trials have also started in the United Arab Emirates and Brazil for vaccines that are being developed by Chinese companies. At a virtual news conference on Aug , Michael Ryan, executive director of the World Health Organizations Health Emergencies Program, said of the six vaccine candidates that had entered phasethree trials by that point, three were from China. Also, China and Indonesia have agreed to set up a fast lane to facilitate personnel exchanges, said Wang, who urged both sides to make good use of it to maintain the smooth operation of supply chains and help with the economic recovery. As the two countries celebrate the th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations this year, China hopes to expand cooperation and consensus with Indonesia, Wang said, adding that it also hopes to work with Indonesia to uphold multilateralism and promote multipolarization and democratization of international relations. Wang called for further progress in flagship bilateral cooperation projectssuch as the JakartaBandung Highspeed Railwayand strengthened and innovative cooperation in G, big data, artificial intelligence and ecommerce. Speaking on Chinas ties with the Association of Southeast Asian Nations, Wang said there is great potential for cooperation, and urged the signing of the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership this year. China hopes to work with Indonesia and other ASEAN members on a code of conduct in the South China Sea as soon as possible, he added. Also, China and Pakistan have agreed to start cooperation on COVID vaccine development, Wang said. Wang made the remark on Friday during the second strategic dialogue between the foreign ministers of China and Pakistan.