Xi urges youth to make new contributions
2020-08-18 07:30
Students attend a graduation ceremony at Peking University on July . PhotoXinhua    Message delivered to meetings of two mass organizations opening in Beijing President Xi Jinping encouraged Chinas youth on Monday to have firm ideals, hone their skills and make new and greater contributions as the country is nearing its goal of building a moderately prosperous society in all respects and embarking on a journey to achieve the goal of building China into a modern socialist country. Xi, who is also general secretary of the Communist Party of China Central Committee and chairman of the Central Military Commission, made the remark in a congratulatory letter to a session of the AllChina Youth Federation and the congress of the AllChina Students Federation. The combined meetings opened in Beijing on Monday. About , members and representatives attended the opening meetings either in Beijing or via teleconference at venues across the country. During the two days, they are reviewing the work reports of the ACYF and ACSF over the past five years and plans for the next five, revising charters and electing new leadership for the two organizations. The two organizations are part of the mass organizations guided by the CPC that represent people from different sectors of society. On behalf of the CPC Central Committee, Xi extended congratulations on the meetings opening, and sincere greetings to students and young people of all ethnic groups and all walks of life in China, as well as overseas Chinese youth. Xi said that with the concerted efforts of the entire Party and the people of all ethnic groups in the nation, China is about to secure a victory in completing the first centenary goalbuilding a moderately prosperous society in all respects by the time the CPC celebrates its centenary in . He said the nation is embarking on a new journey to achieve the second centenary goalbuilding China into a modern socialist country that is prosperous, strong, democratic, culturally advanced and harmonious by the time the Peoples Republic of China celebrates its centenary in . The president called on Chinese youth to have firm ideals and convictions, cultivate a noble character, hone their skills, be innovative and creative and work hard in the new era. Xi said the work of the ACYF and ACSF is an integral part of the Partys youth work. Party authorities and governments at all levels should strengthen leadership over youth work, support the work of the two organizations and create a favorable environment for young people to enhance and apply their talents. The president urged the youth organizations to deepen reforms and produce innovations. They should work to mobilize young people to firmly follow the Party and forge ahead in the new era. Leaders attending the opening session included Wang Huning, a member of the Standing Committee of the Political Bureau of the CPC Central Committee Chen Xi, head of the Organization Department of the CPC Central Committee, and VicePremier Sun Chunlan. While addressing the meetings on behalf of the CPC Central Committee, Sun praised young peoples role in combating COVID earlier this year, adding that young Chinese have proved with their actions that they are qualified for the tasks ahead. Sun said millions of members of the Communist Youth League of China have become involved in controlling the virus in communities, treating patients and making essential medical supplies. Another . million young Chinese offered their services voluntarily during the novel coronavirus outbreak. They organized blood donations and fundraising and won the praise of the Party and people. Sun said that todays young people are in the best period of the development of the Chinese nation, and are the new force for realizing the nations great rejuvenation. She explained that they have been presented with rare opportunities to make contributions and achievements and to accomplish the great missions of the time. Zhou Song, a new ACYF member who heads the discipline inspection commission at China National Biotec Group, which is leading the nations COVID vaccine development efforts, said more than  percent of the staff at the Stateowned conglomerate are younger than . Zhou said the young professionals are the very people who made China a leader in vaccine development. Currently, our branch in Wuhan, Hubei province, has made the worlds first inactivated vaccine, and our branch in Beijing owns the worlds largest manufacturing facilities, he said. Zhou said there is still room for youth organizations to produce improvements in educating the young about combining personal pursuits with national development. As a member of the ACYF, he said he will perform his role in uniting more young people around him to shoulder responsibilities bestowed by the times.