Argentine officials hail COVID vaccine production, urge public to remain cautious
2020-08-14 10:38
Argentinas President Alberto Fernandez gestures during the announcement that Argentina and Mexico will produce and distribute an experimental coronavirus vaccine at the Olivos Presidential residence, in Buenos Aires, Argentina on Aug , . PhotoAgencies    BUENOS AIRES  A COVID vaccine developed by Britains Oxford University is to be produced for Latin America by Argentina and Mexico, generating high hopes and pride, said Argentine officials, who also cautioned the public on Thursday to keep protecting themselves against the disease. We are elated because we will have vaccine availability soon and the price will be very accessible, and because we are proud to be local manufacturers, Argentinean Health Minister Gines Gonzalez said. However, in an interview with a local radio station in Buenos Aires, Gonzalez said that people should not let down their guard, because the results of phase three studies and regulatory approvals of the vaccine are still pending. There is no other better alternative at this time than to continue to take care of ourselves and comply with the safety measures, so we have a controlled evolution of outbreaks, he said. Argentine President Alberto Fernandez announced Wednesday that the South American country will, along with Mexico, produce the vaccine developed by Oxford and British pharmaceutical company AstraZeneca. The initiative, which seeks to supply the region with some  million doses as of the first half of , is news that fills us with pride and satisfaction, said Carla Vizzotti, the Argentine Health Ministrys health access secretary. Still, today it is necessary to continue taking care of ourselves, she added. According to the Argentine government, of the total production of the vaccine, some . million doses will be earmarked for healthcare workers, the elderly and people in high risk groups. Argentina, which registered its first case of COVID on March , reported a total of , confirmed cases and , deaths as of Thursday.