COVID vaccine to be mandatory for California students
2021-10-02 04:34
California Gov. Gavin Newsom talks with th grade students at James Denman Middle School on October ,  in San Francisco, California. PhotoAgencies    LOS ANGELES  COVID vaccinations will be compulsory for all students in California, the state governor announced Friday  a first in the United States, where vaccine hesitancy has slowed efforts to end the pandemic. The plan will be phased in as Food and Drug Administration regulators grant full approval for use in younger age groups. California will require our kids to get the Covid vaccine to come to school, said Governor Gavin Newsom. Our schools already require vaccines for measles, mumps and more. Why? Because vaccines work. This is about keeping our kids safe and healthy. The PfizerBioNTech vaccine has been granted full FDA approval for yearolds and up. Once the FDA approves the vaccination in different cohorts, starting with  and above  grade seven to   we will begin to apply that requirement in the next term, Newsom said as he made his announcement at a local school. We are all exhausted by this pandemic, said Newsom, saying the rules would apply to all students attending class in both the state or private education systems. The rules are set to affect six million students in Americas most populous state, where  percent of all eligible residents have had at least one dose of the vaccine. Nearly , people have died in the United States from coronavirus, with vaccines, maskwearing and shutdowns all becoming fiercely political issues. Schools are actually closed more frequently in those states that have not been more disciplined in terms in advancing more scientific and datadriven approaches to taming this disease, Newsom said. Pfizer and BioNTech last week said they had begun submitting data to the FDA for the highlyanticipated authorization of their vaccine for children aged five to . Children have been infected in greater numbers in the latest wave driven by the Delta variant, and inoculating younger people is seen as key to keeping schools open and helping thwart the pandemic. The Pfizer vaccine received full, formal approval in the US in August and is technically available to younger children if prescribed by a doctor. Pfizer and BioNTech are also testing their vaccine on children as young as two. AFP