Thaw in SinoUS relations vital, Colombian experts say
2020-08-11 09:11
PhotoVCG    BOGOTA, ColombiaFor the welfare of the global community, it is important for China and the United States to explore means of cooperation that will help them restore relations at all levels, said Colombian business leaders and academics. Chinese State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi recently said that China rejects any attempt to create a socalled new Cold War, said Professor David Castrillon of Externado University in Bogota. Wang Yi emphasized that, saying China is willing to restart mechanisms for dialogue with the United States at any level, in any area and at any time. And that is precisely what the Chinese government has done, said Castrillon, who specializes in US and Chinese affairs. In trade, for example, China has moved to address Washingtons concerns, said Castrillon. In light of Washingtons trade concerns, China put into effect at the beginning of  a new Foreign Investment Law that gives foreign companies greater access to the Chinese market, and offers greater guarantees in intellectual property protection, he said. Given Beijings willingness to cooperate, Castrillon believed the US administrations disputes had less to do with policy than with US President Donald Trump trying to get reelected in November. Trumps gamble is likely to backfire, said Castrillon. That is a stance that will hurt Trump in the elections, as it is ordinary citizens that are bearing the high costs of failed policies, such as the trade war, he said. Call for collaboration At a time when international cooperation is needed to fight a common enemy such as the COVID pandemic, Trumps hostility is globally damaging and in stark contrast to Chinas willingness to promote collaboration for the greater good, said Castrillon. China has shown its interest in cooperating with other countries in the development of a vaccine against the new coronavirus, even announcing that it will make its vaccines a public good with universal access, he said. Business owner Diego Tangarife also highlighted the Chinaproposed Belt and Road Initiative for global development, saying it fosters greater international cooperation. According to Jaime Suarez, executive director of the ColombiaChina Chamber of Investment and Commerce, trade wars are not promising or positive for either party. Regarding Washingtons restrictions on Chinese technology companies, the experts said that the measures will only isolate US citizens from progress in different fields, including G technology in telecommunications, in which Chinese companies are at the fore. They backed Wangs call for improved ChinaUS relations, saying cooperation between the two countries will have a positive impact on the entire international community. Xinhua