Robust synergy forges closer, more vibrant ChinaAfrica community of shared future
2021-10-01 10:54
Donated doses of a COVID vaccine from Chinas Sinovac Biotech, as well as syringes, await unloading at an international airport in Zanzibar, Tanzania, on July , . PhotoXinhua    Despite the impact of the raging COVID pandemic, ChinaAfrica cooperation has maintained its dynamic momentum and is even rising to a higher level through innovative mechanisms and measures. The Second ChinaAfrica Economic and Trade Expo which concluded Wednesday in central Chinas Hunan Province offered a glaring example of this robust synergy. A total of  cooperation deals were inked during the fourday expo, with a cumulative value of . billion US dollars, both surpassing those of the first expo in . Since the launch of the Forum on ChinaAfrica Cooperation in  and particularly its Beijing Summit in , ChinaAfrica cooperation has developed rapidly and remarkable results have been achieved in economy, trade, investment, peopletopeople exchanges, and other fields, benefiting people on both sides. China has remained Africas largest trading partner for  consecutive years. Over the past  years, the flow of Chinas direct investment in Africa has grown by more than  percent on a yearly average. In addition, China is Africas secondlargest agricultural export destination. With deepened cooperation and exchanges across the board amid traditional unity and friendship, China and African countries have continued to forge an even closer and more vibrant community with a shared future through concerted and creative efforts, which forms an integral and distinctive part in the building of a community with a shared future for humanity. The mutually beneficial cooperation fits in well with the conditions and needs of African countries and helps them advance industrialization to create jobs, produce valueadded goods and enhance their capacity for endogenous development. This momentum also highlights the ChinaAfrica comprehensive strategic and cooperative partnership. China and Africa pursue respective rejuvenation, support real multilateralism, and uphold equality and mutual respect in international relations. The complementary advantages in industries reveal their broad vistas for cooperation. The COVID pandemic has dragged the global economic recovery, yet new growth points between China and African countries are emerging to further spur the winwin cooperation and common development. Bilateral cooperation is on a new starting point with fresh opportunities. For example, clean energy, digital economy and health are among the emerging areas for cooperation. The ChinaAfrica relationship has stood the test of time. The mutual help in the fight against COVID and the joint building of the Belt and Road have cemented the relationship. China is always Africas good friend, good partner and good brother. The great friendship and unity can never be undermined by anyone. Rather, the bond will grow even stronger and deepen further over time. Through the construction of economic and trade cooperation zones as well as railway, road, port and other infrastructure projects by Chinese companies, hundreds of thousands of jobs have been created in Africa. Locals now enjoy better transport services and more opportunities to earn a better life. China has eliminated absolute poverty and realized a moderately prosperous society in all respects and is fully building a modernized country. African countries are also in the process of their own industrialization. With a huge market of . billion people, and the upgrading of allround cooperation under bilateral cooperation frameworks, China and Africa are set to jointly build a closer and more vibrant community with a shared future and common prosperity.