US media, public divide over govt performance amid pandemic, protests
2020-08-07 14:24
People line up outside a Kentucky Career Center hoping to find assistance with their unemployment claim in Frankfort, Kentucky, US, June , . PhotoAgencies    WASHINGTON  Just three months before perhaps the most crucial election in the postWWII era, US media and people are in a frenzy of discussions over who might lead the worlds biggest economy, at a time when a multitude of US businesses have been ravaged by the COVID shutdown and the whole world is fighting the pandemic. Differing opinions on handling of crises The recent neverbeforeseen crises in the United States have worsened already intense political and ideological differences in the US society. Only  percent of Americans approve of US President Donald Trumps handling of the novel coronavirus pandemic, according to a new ABC NewsIpsos poll on  US adults on July . The survey, whose results were released on July , also found that the US public broadly disapproves of the presidents handling of other recent crises such as the nationwide protests following the death of African American George Floyd. According to the polls result, just over a third of Americans  percent approve of President Trumps handling of the response to the protests across the country. Specifically, a majority of Americans  precent believe the deployment of federal law enforcement to cities with protests has made the situation worse, it added. Some US media such as The New York Times, The Washington Post and CNN have criticized the US governments handling of the COVID pandemic and protests over racial injustice, while other media, such as the Fox network, have approved Washingtons pandemic containment efforts and vaccine research and development. Some media also pointed out that the US governments response to the pandemic has caused cases to mount and the economys service sector is in shambles as a result. The US economy contracted at an annual rate of . percent in the second quarter of the year, the steepest decline since the government began keeping records in , the Commerce Department reported last week. The White House and congressional Democrats aim to strike a deal on the next COVID relief bill by the end of this week, while the two sides remain far apart on some important issues, according to Bloomberg. Republican and Democratic lawmakers, facing immense pressure to reach a deal to salvage the economy from COVID, have blamed each other for failing to make progress. Mixed feelings about media opinions In a study published earlier this week, polling company Gallup found that at a time of record political polarization and pessimism about opinions, strong majorities of Americans increasingly think an independent media is key to a functioning democracy. According to a new report from Gallup and the Knight Foundations Trust, Media and Democracy series, Americans see increasing political bias in news coverage and say that media bears blame for political division in this country. A large majority of Americans currently see a great deal   percent, or a fair amount   percent, of political bias in news coverage, more than that of . Although  percent of US adults see at least a fair amount of bias in their goto news source, they are much more concerned about bias in the news other people are getting than about their own news being biased, which is  percent and  percent respectively. At the same time, political party identification continues to be the principal factor driving Americans views of and trust in the media, the Gallup study found. At the same time, however, more than eight in  Americans say that, in general, the news media is critical to democracy. However, not all reports have been distinctly on one side or the other, and some are coming out with detailed reports on the science of the virus and other facts. In any event, the coverage of the pandemic is likely to impact the presidential elections in one way or another, experts said.