Democrats to go virtual with convention
2020-08-06 13:54
A general view of the Wisconsin Center ahead of the Democratic National Convention on in Milwaukee, Wisconsin Aug , . PhotoAgencies    Republicans are still working out plans for their partys national political convention, while Democrats said Wednesday that because of the COVID pandemic, their event will be entirely virtual with former vicepresident Joe Biden accepting his partys presidential nomination from his home state of Delaware. On the advice of health officials working for the party, campaign officials said no national Democratic officials will travel to Milwaukee from out of state to participate in events, which will begin Aug . Democrats said that the decision reinforces that Biden takes the novel coronavirus pandemic seriously while President Donald Trump does not. Ive wanted to set an example as to how we should respond individually to this crisis, Biden said at a fundraiser on Wednesday, adding, Science matters. Wisconsin officials are still expected to give speeches at the downtown Milwaukee convention center, but leading Democrats, including Barack Obama, Michelle Obama and Jill Biden, plan to deliver their addresses from elsewhere. Delegates had already been instructed not to attend. Trump said in an interview Wednesday that he will probably deliver his speech accepting the Republican nomination for a second term live from the White Houses South Lawn. Citing the expense of traveling with a full Secret Service detail, Trump told Fox News that the White House would be the easiest setting for his address And we are thinking about that. ... Its the easiest alternative. I think its a beautiful alternative. Trump did say in his Fox  Friends interview that if for some reason somebody had difficulty with the White House speech plan, I could go someplace else. A campaign address from the White House could cause White House aides setting up for the event to violate the  Hatch Act, which bans political activity paid by taxpayers. Trump, as president, isnt subject to the Hatch Act, but nearly every federal employee is. Is that even legal? I assume thats not something that you could do, said Republican Senator John Thune of South Dakota. I think anything to do on federal property would seem to be problematic. Another Republican senator, Wisconsins Ron Johnson, told reporters that Trumps proposal is probably not allowed and he probably shouldnt do it. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi criticized Trump for suggesting that he could deliver his convention acceptance speech from the South Lawn, calling it very wrong. Its not serious thinking, she told MSNBC. It wont happen, whether its legally wrong or ethically out of the question, it shouldnt have been something that was expressed. Drugmakers that have contracts with the US and other countries announced Wednesday their charges for coronavirus vaccines, which range from  to  a dose. Johnson  Johnson said it agreed to provide  million doses of its coronavirus vaccine for use in the US, in exchange for more than  billion from the federal government, implying a perdose price of about . Johnson  Johnson previously received  million in US funding to develop its vaccine. Moderna said it signed smallvolume supply contracts with governments at prices ranging from  to  a dose, which would mean a twodose regimen could cost as much as . Moderna didnt disclose the countries, but Canadian officials said they signed a supply agreement with Moderna. Johnson  Johnson and AstraZeneca have pledged not to earn a profit during the pandemic, while Moderna and Pfizer say they will. New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio announced Wednesday that checkpoints will be set up at bridges and tunnels leading into the city to enforce a quarantine order for people coming from states with high rates of COVID. The checkpoints will signal to people that the city is serious about continuing to keep its infection rate low, de Blasio said. Were not looking to target outofstate residents, said the citys sheriff, Joseph Fucito, whose agency will operate the checkpoints. In fact, what were looking to do is educate people whove spent time in COVID hot spots regardless of their residence. The state quarantine order requires people coming from states with elevated rates of infection to selfisolate for up to two weeks. People caught violating the order could be fined up to ,. The order applies to travelers from  states and Puerto Rico. New York Citys health department said that there have been , confirmed COVID deaths and , probable COVID deaths as of Wednesday. The health department defines probable deaths as people who didnt have a positive coronavirus laboratory test, but their death certificate will give the cause of death as COVID or an equivalent. New York Governor Andrew Cuomo is asking the thousands of New Yorkers who have fled the city because of the virus to return to save it from economic ruin. Many moved to second homes, while others rented or bought new properties, leaving their expensive city apartments. At a news conference Tuesday, Cuomo said of the wealthiest residents who have left the city I literally talk to people all day long who are in their Hamptons house who also lived here, or in their Hudson Valley house or in their Connecticut weekend house, and I say, You gotta come back, when are you coming back? Well go to dinner. Ill buy you a drink. Come over, Ill cook. Theyre not coming back right now. And you know what else theyre thinking? If I stay there, I pay a lower income tax, because they dont pay the New York City surcharge, he said.