Standing together to fight against the pandemic
2020-07-30 08:23
China and United Arab Emirates jointly combating the pandemic and seeking development together Since the beginning of , the novel coronavirus has raged across the world. During the period when the pandemic situation was the severest in China, the United Arab Emirates government and people stood firmly with China by providing political support and supplies, attesting to the ironclad ChinaUAE friendship. Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, crown prince of Abu Dhabi of the UAE spoke over the phone with President Xi Jinping and posted tweets, expressing his willingness to provide allout support for China. The UAE sent medical supplies to China quickly and generously and kept the air routes open. Its landmark buildings such as the Burj Khalifa, the worlds tallest building, and Abu Dhabi National Oil Company headquarters lit up red three times to support Wuhan, the hardesthit city in China during the pandemic, delivering positive signals to the international community that China and the UAE are in the same boat. As an ancient Chinese poem goes, You give a peach to me, Ill give you white jade for friendship. While China is making brave efforts to prevent and control the spread of the virus domestically, it has also sincerely and selflessly provided assistance for the UAE when it was hit by the pandemic. The two sides have carried out efficient cooperation on joint pandemic prevention and control as well as information sharing. Chinese medical experts have held videoconferences with their counterparts in the UAE many times making indepth exchanges on diagnosis, treatment as well as prevention and control. Chinese biotech company BGI Group has helped the UAE to build Chinas largest overseas highthroughput testing center, allowing the latter to set the worlds leading per capita testing rates. China has also made allout efforts to meet the urgent demands of the UAE for pharmaceutical drugs, testing kits, protective supplies, equipment and raw materials as reciprocal support. Solidarity and cooperation are the most powerful weapons to overcome the pandemic. China and the UAE are partners fighting side by side on the international antipandemic front line. President Xi and Crown Prince Mohammed both attended the G Extraordinary Virtual Leaders Summit on COVID held in March. State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi and his UAE counterpart, Sheikh Abdullah bin Zayed Al Nahyan also talked twice by phone during the Highlevel Video Conference on Belt and Road International Cooperation held in June and the th Ministerial Conference of the ChinaArab States Cooperation Forum via video link held in July. China has provided a large amount of medical supplies to more than  countries and international organizations, and has sent medical teams to support many countries. The UAE has also provided humanitarian support of more than , tons of medical supplies to over  countries, benefiting more than  million medical staff. The two countries have launched the worlds first phase III clinical trials of an inactivated COVID vaccine, which sets an example for international cooperation on providing antipandemic public health products and bringing hope to the global battle against the virus. The close antipandemic cooperation between China and the UAE derives from the longlasting historical exchanges between both sides and has benefited from the highlevel bilateral relations in the current era. Over , years ago, the ancient Silk Road already connected the two sides. Today, ChinaUAE exchanges are based on peaceful cooperation, openness and inclusiveness, mutual learning and mutual benefit. With the efforts of the two countries leaders, ChinaUAE relations have entered a golden era. President Xis state visit to the UAE in  promoted the development of a comprehensive strategic partnership between the two countries. In , Crown Prince Mohammed paid a state visit to China, further outlining the development of ChinaUAE relations. In the same year, the bilateral trade volume between the two countries reached . billion. While China continued to be the UAEs largest trading partner in , the UAE has been Chinas secondlargest trading partner and the largest export market in the Middle East for many years. The cooperation between the two sides in fields including energy, investment, science and education, culture and tourism has been booming. The two countries also held activities including the first ChinaUAE Economic and Trade Digital Expo and the ChinaUAE Culture Week via video link recently, creating good conditions for both sides to improve exchanges and cooperation after full resumption of work and production. The year of  marks the th anniversary of the founding of the UAE, which will host the Expo  Dubai lasting into the next year. During the event, the Chinese Pavilion will showcase Chinas hightech innovation achievements. The prospects for ChinaUAE cooperation are promising and worth greater efforts. Facing the complicated and severe international pandemic situation, China and the UAE need to improve their cooperation and push ahead jointly more than ever. The two countries are supposed to promote international antipandemic battle and allround cooperation in other fields steadily to drive the establishment of a community of shared future between China and the UAE to better benefit people of both sides. The author is the Chinese ambassador to the United Arab Emirates. The author contributed this article to China Watch, a think tank powered by China Daily. The views do not necessarily reflect those of China Daily.