Virus hospitalizations drop in New York
2020-07-27 11:25
A nurse wearing personal protective equipment watches an ambulance driving away outside of Elmhurst Hospital during the ongoing outbreak of the coronavirus disease COVID in the Queens borough of New York, US, April , . PhotoAgencies    New York state saw just  people hospitalized Saturday for COVID, which is the lowest daily number since midMarch, Governor Andrew Cuomo said Sunday. Thats a new low for us since March , so really great news, Cuomo told reporters in a conference call. Whats the but? The but is the constant caution of this virus, Cuomo said Sunday. Dont get cocky, dont get arrogant. There are still threats out there. You still have the national threat, and you have the compliance challenge. New York City alone recorded four new COVID hospitalizations Friday, its lowest number since March . By contrast, Florida became the second state after California to surpass New York this weekend as the worsthit state in the country, according to a Reuters tally. Total coronavirus infections in Florida rose by , to , on Sunday, just one place behind California a state with almost twice Floridas population, which now leads the country with , cases. New York is third with , cases. Still, New York has recorded the most deaths of any US state at more than ,, with Florida in eighth place with nearly , deaths. New York state also reported three confirmed deaths Saturday, while New York City had seven, confirmed and suspected combined, as of Friday. Cuomo touted his states low  percent positivity rate as a good omen. New York did , tests Saturday   positive. That is  percent, on the head, positive. I said from Day One, were going to calibrate the reopening. What did we calibrate it to? To the rate of transmission, said the governor. What is the rate of transmission that you want to stay at? Cuomo asked. One percent.  We are at that number. Thats the red line. Were  reopening as fast as we can, and we are aggressive at reopening because were at the red line. In an implicit rebuke to states that curtailed their lockdowns, Cuomo added that if things reopen too quickly, thats when the engine blows. On average, Florida has added more than , cases a day in July while California has been adding , cases daily, and New York has been adding . The surge in Florida has continued as Governor Ron DeSantis, a Republican who identifies as a close ally of President Donald Trump, has repeatedly said he will not make maskwearing mandatory and that schools must reopen in August. New York state has managed to get the virus under control by keeping most of its stores and restaurants shuttered and by making the wearing of masks mandatory. The rise in cases comes as Trump continues to push for physical classrooms to reopen in the fall, despite concerns by teachers and families that children could contract or transmit the virus once they return to school. After New York, Texas has the most total coronavirus cases ,. Texas Governor Greg Abbott said Tropical Storm Hanna, which made landfall on Saturday as a Category  hurricane, was especially challenging as it was sweeping through an area of the state that has been hit hardest by the virus. As of Sunday, more than , Americans have died of COVID  nearly a quarter of the global total  and there are nearly . million confirmed cases in the country, according to data collected by Johns Hopkins University. The latest vaccine news is that Moderna Inc said Sunday it has received an additional  million from the US governments Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority BARDA to support development of its novel coronavirus vaccine. The USbased drugmaker said the additional funding will support its latestage clinical development including the expanded phase  study of its vaccine candidate. In April, Moderna received  million from BARDA when the experimental vaccine was in an earlystage trial conducted by the US National Institutes of Health. Top Trump administration officials on Sunday raised the possibility of Congress passing narrower, piecemeal coronavirus relief legislation  an approach opposed by Democrats  as a deadline looms on the expiration of enhanced unemployment benefits. A day before Senate Republicans were due to introduce a  trillion coronavirus relief bill that includes reduced federal unemployment benefits, Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin said he believes the party can work quickly with Democrats on getting legislation passed. Mnuchin and White House chief of staff Mark Meadows floated the idea of Congress passing a bill focusing on federal unemployment benefits, which expire Friday, while leaving other issues to be tackled later. The most pressing issues are renewing the enhanced unemployment benefits  currently  a week  and liability protections from coronavirusrelated lawsuits such as frivolous litigation against schools and universities, Mnuchin said. Reuters contributed to this story.