Virus surge linked to rise in joblessness in US
2020-07-23 23:51
Initial US jobless claims rose for the first time in about four months as some states delayed or reversed reopening the economy amid an increase in the number of new coronavirus infections, the US Labor Department reported Thursday.Firsttime jobless claims increased , for the week ended July  from the previous week to . million  the th consecutive week the total has been above  million. Economists surveyed by Dow Jones expected . million initial unemployment claims to be filed.After a dire start to the second quarter in April, the global economy has since staged a robust rebound as lockdown restrictions in many regions have been eased, Oxford Economics, a global forecasting company based in England, said in a research report.Despite a strong initial bounce, high unemployment and surging corporate debt will limit the scale of the revival in the second half of  and beyond. The renewed rise in COVID cases in parts of the world shows that considerable downside risks remain.The number of confirmed coronavirus cases in the US is approaching  million, and about , people have died after being infected, Johns Hopkins University reported.The seasonally adjusted unemployment rate was . percent for the week ended July , a . percentagepoint decline from the previous weeks revised rate.In the last few weeks, the number of initial jobless claims has hovered around . million a week after declining steadily from the peak of . million claims filed in late March.The current number of initial jobless claims is well above the previous record high of , set in .Continuing claims, or those of people receiving benefits for at least two consecutive weeks, declined by . million to . million for the week ended July , the Labor Department said.The extra aweek benefit expires at the end of July, and Congress is debating another coronavirus aid package.Democrats argue that the money is needed to help people meet routine living expenses, but Republicans counter that the enhanced benefit may be a disincentive for some to return to work and therefore could slow the recovery.In an interview with CNBC, Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said the Republican proposal would extend the enhanced unemployment benefit based on approximately  percent wage replacement.But its not clear how the Republican plan would be structured. Congress included the  a week in the aid package passed in March because it didnt appear all state computer systems could accurately calculate a percentage increase for individual claimants.Mnuchin also said that US President Donald Trumps proposal to temporarily suspend payroll taxes wont be included in the Republican bill.In an interview with CNBC, House Majority Leader Steny Hoyer, a Democrat from Maryland, said replacing  percent of lost wages isnt the policy we ought to pursue.He said any cuts ought to be over time but noted the Republican proposal is not a dealbreaker.Republicans believe the next coronavirus relief package should total about  trillion. But House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, a Democrat from California, believes that is not enough to meet economic problems caused by the pandemic.The economy may continue to weaken.On Thursday, Southwest Airlines reported a  million secondquarter loss compared with a  million profit for the same period a year ago.Revenue plunged about  percent to just over  billion from . billion a year ago.Demand for air travel has weakened in the last few weeks after ticket sales had begun to recover this spring.In response, the airline said it may reduce thirdquarter capacity  to  percent compared with last year.We were encouraged by improvement in May and June leisure passenger traffic trends, compared with March and April, Gary Kelly, Southwests CEO, said in a statement.However, the improving trends in revenue and bookings have recently stalled in July with the rise of COVID cases. We expect air travel demand to remain depressed until a vaccine or therapeutics are available.AMC Entertainment Holdings, the largest US movie theater chain, said it has set aside plans to reopen this month and now hopes to begin showing movies in August.The company said it had reached an agreement earlier this month to keep the company solvent through .