US virus briefing turns political
2020-07-23 14:00
US President Donald Trump speaks during a coronavirus disease COVID task force news briefing at the White House in Washington, on July , . PhotoAgencies    US President Donald Trump on Wednesday turned what was expected to be a briefing on the novel coronavirus pandemic into a lengthy attack on China and former vicepresident Joe Biden, who is leading him in most national polls in the race for president. Trump said Monday that he planned to make pandemic briefings a regular fixture in the White House briefing room again after his monthslong hiatus from participating in daily updates. But on Wednesday, in the second day since the briefings resumed, for the better part of an hour in front of reporters in the White House Rose Garden, Trump gave what was largely a live political advertisement for his reelection campaign. Trump urged young people again to avoid packed bars and said he was conducting the briefing without doctors from his White House Coronavirus Task Force because he had been briefed by them himself. Trump again encouraged people to wear masks. He said it was up to the governors to decide how strongly to encourage or require face coverings in their states. Trump has worn a mask once in public, but this week started encouraging face coverings on a wider scale. He also pressed Americans to practice good hygiene. Im finding more and more people are saying, Wash your hands. So, wash your hands, he said. Trump opened the briefing by announcing that he will end preferential treatment for Hong Kong in trade and travel in response to a new security law pushed by Beijing. He then attacked China on several fronts, and sharply criticized Biden for what he said were proChina comments. A polling aggregation Wednesday shows the presidents disapproval rating at . percent and that he is trailing Biden nationally in election polls by . points, according to RealClearPolitics. Biden said Wednesday that racists have run for president in the past, but that Trump was the first to win the nations highest office. In a questionandanswer session with the Service Employees International Union, Biden accused Trump of being a racist and spreading racism by blaming the Chinese for the coronavirus outbreak. What President Trump has done in his spreading of racist  the way he deals with people based on the color of their skin, their national origin, where theyre from  is absolutely sickening, Biden said in a virtual discussion with union members. No sitting president has ever done this. Never, never, never, Biden said. No Republican president has done this. No Democratic president. Weve had racists, and theyve existed, theyve tried to get elected president. Hes the first one that has. On Wednesday afternoon, Trump touted his administrations response to the pandemic, telling reporters, Its all going to work out, and it is working out. The Trump administration on Wednesday announced a nearly  billion contract with the US pharmaceutical giant Pfizer and a smaller German biotechnology company for up to  million doses of a potential coronavirus vaccine. If the vaccine proves to be safe and effective in clinical trials, the companies say, they could manufacture the first  million doses by December. More than , people in the US have died from COVID, the illness caused by the coronavirus, a toll that public health experts say will likely rise in several states. Florida, Texas, Georgia and California are among about  states recording more cases. Florida reported , new cases and  new deaths Wednesday, while patients hospitalized with COVID hit a record high of ,. Alabama reported a record  new deaths Wednesday, a day after hospitalizations there hit a record high. Nationally, coronavirus deaths rose by , on Tuesday, according to a Reuters tally. It was the first time since June  that the daily toll surpassed ,. Nineteen states have reported a record number of currently hospitalized COVID patients so far in July. Thirtytwo states have reported record increases in cases in July. Reuters contributed to this story.