Chinese ambassador to the UK meets with CEPI CEO online
2020-07-23 02:40
Chinese Ambassador to the UK Liu Xiaoming met online with Dr. Richard Hatchett, Chief Executive Officer of the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations CEPI on Jul . Photochineseembassy.org.uk    On Tuesday, Chinese Ambassador to the UK Liu Xiaoming met online with Dr. Richard Hatchett, Chief Executive Officer of the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations CEPI and his team. The two sides exchanged views on enhancing international cooperation on RD of vaccine. Ambassador Liu said, Covid poses a grave challenge to mankind. Vaccine is the ultimate solution to win the final victory over the virus. In RD of Covid vaccine, China has not only worked hard itself but also taken an active part in international cooperation. At the rd World Health Assembly, President Xi Jinping solemnly pledged that when a Covid vaccine is successfully developed and put to use in China, China will be shared it with the world as a global public good to ensure vaccine accessibility and affordability, especially in developing countries. The Chinese side appreciates the work that CEPI has done to promote international cooperation on RD of vaccine and its achievements so far, and looks forward to closer exchanges and cooperation with CEPI, and more positive contribution from CEPI to safeguarding the safety and health of people of all countries. Ambassador Liu emphasized, mankind belongs to a community with a common future, where people from all countries share weal and woe. In this battle against the virus, solidarity and cooperation are the most effective weapons. While we are fighting Covid, it is also important to guard against political virus. Some politicians from Western countries claimed that China is stealing research data from others. This is completely groundless. Such accusations constitute a complete disrespect for the hard efforts of Chinese scientists and malicious slanders against the achievements of China in the fight against Covid. They could also gravely undermine international cooperation on RD of vaccine and global joint response to the pandemic. The world must firmly oppose and reject such groundless claims. Dr. Hatchett gave an update about CEPI and its works, and paid tribute to China for having taken effective measures against Covid to not only contain the spread of the virus at home but also contribute to global response to the pandemic. CEPI believes that the pandemic should not be used as a tool for political manipulation. It is working with all parties to advance RD of Covid vaccine around the world, and stands ready to step up cooperation with China with a view to achieving breakthroughs at an early date, so as to benefit people of the whole world. CEPI was jointly launched by Bill  Melinda Gates Foundation, Wellcome Trust and the governments of Norway, India and other countries at Davos . It focuses on vaccine development, licensure and manufacturing while supporting the efforts of its partners in vaccine discovery and delivery. It is headquartered in Oslo, Norway, has offices in London and Washington DC, and opened a representative office in Shanghai last March.