COVID vaccine development reported in various countries
2020-07-22 15:23
Small bottles labelled with Vaccine stickers seen near a medical syringe in front of displayed Coronavirus COVID words, April , . PhotoAgencies    BEIJING  Many countries have recently reported development in their COVID vaccine trials, bringing hope to the world amid the still raging pandemic, while health experts called for an objective, rational and scientific attitude towards vaccine candidates. At least  COVID candidate vaccines are in clinical evaluation, and another  in preclinical evaluation, according to data released by the World Health Organization WHO on Monday. On Monday alone, four countries reported their new research results of COVID vaccines. Chinese experts said in a new study published in medical journal The Lancet that a phase  trial of a COVID vaccine candidate has found that the vaccine is safe and induces an immune response. The phase  trial adds further evidence on safety and immunogenicity in a large population than the phase  trial. This is an important step in evaluating this earlystage experimental vaccine and phase  trials are now underway, said Professor Fengcai Zhu from Jiangsu Provincial Center for Disease Control and Prevention, China. A report published also in The Lancet reveals the results of the phase  trial of the Oxford coronavirus vaccine ChAdOx nCoV. It indicates no early safety concerns and produces strong immune response. According to the University of Oxford, the trial involves more than , healthy adult volunteers. The vaccine provoked a T cell response white blood cells that can attack cells infected with the SARSCoV virus within  days of vaccination, and an antibody response within  days. The Russian Defense Ministry said that together with the Gamaleya Scientific Research Institute of Epidemiology and Microbiology, it has successfully completed clinical trials of COVID vaccine with the participation of volunteers. Without exception, all volunteers, having received immunity from the coronavirus, felt fine, First Deputy Defense Minister of the Russian Federation Ruslan Khadzhismelovich Tsaikov told Moscows Argumenty i Fakty newspaper. German biotech company BioNTech and US pharmaceutical corporation Pfizer announced that data from their experimental COVID vaccine showed that it was safe, and induced an immune response and highlevel Tcell responses against the novel coronavirus in patients. Earlier this month, research institutes in other countries also reported progress in their COVID vaccine trials. In a study published July  in the New England Journal of Medicine, researchers reported that the COVID vaccine mRNA, codeveloped by the US National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases and US biotech firm Moderna Therapeutics, induced immune responses and no serious side effects in volunteers in the second clinical trial. Moreover, the University of Queensland in Australia, Chulalongkorn University in Thailand, among other institutes, also reported positive results in their COVID vaccine research. Despite the good news on COVID candidate vaccines, experts warned of uncertainties of vaccine development and clinical trials, as well as multiple risks and challenges including virus mutation, while appealing for an objective, rational and scientific attitude towards vaccine research. Dr. Michael Ryan, executive director of the WHO Health Emergencies Program, said on July  that there is no accurate timetable for the delivery of COVID vaccines. Although the preliminary data of some candidate vaccines is quite promising, it is still unpredictable which one is totally clinically effective, he told a briefing. While a vaccine candidate might show its effectiveness by years end, the question is how soon it could be mass produced, he added. Saudi Arabias Asharq alAwsat newspaper said recently that researchers should avoid being overoptimistic about the significant progress of some candidate vaccines in clinical trials, and wait for further trial results. Merck CEO Kenneth Frazier said that the effectiveness of developing vaccines cannot be guaranteed. Some studies showed that the level of antibodies will decline after COVID patients recover. Joint efforts of scientific research teams are needed to tackle issues including how COVID vaccines provide sufficient longterm immunity and how to deal with possible virus variation. The WHO urged that before a COVID vaccine is officially available, all countries should consistently take fullflung prevention and control measures.