Progress in vaccines for coronavirus promising
2020-07-22 07:21
A woman holds a small bottle labeled with a Vaccine COVID sticker and a medical syringe in this illustration taken on April , . PhotoAgencies    The phasetwo clinical trial of the COVID vaccine candidate created by the Academy of Military Medical Sciences and Chinese biotech company CanSino Biologics has found that it is safe and can induce an immune response, according to research published in The Lancet medical journal on Monday. Also on Monday, The Lancet published the results of phaseone and phasetwo clinical trials of a similar adenovirus vectored vaccine developed by scientists at Oxford University and biotech company AstraZeneca. That vaccine also demonstrated success in safety and potency against COVID. Experts have called these results promising. However, pressing questions remain, such as the longevity of its protection, the appropriate dosage to trigger a strong immune response and whether there are hostspecific differences such as age, sex or ethnicity. These questions will be probed in larger scale phasethree trials. An adenovirus vectored vaccine works by using a weakened common cold virus to introduce genetic material from the novel coronavirus into the human body. The idea is to train the body to produce antibodies that recognize the coronavirus spike protein and fight it off. In the phasetwo trial of the Chinese vaccine,  people took part,  of them receiving a high dose of the vaccine,  a low dose and  a placebo. Ninetyfive percent of participants in the high dose group and  percent in the low dose group had either Tcell or antibody immune responses  days after receiving the vaccine. Tcells can directly target and kill invading pathogens, making them a key part of the human immune response. The authors emphasized, however, that no participants were exposed to the novel coronavirus after vaccination, so it is still too early to say whether the vaccine candidate can effectively protect against COVID infection. As for adverse reactions, fever, fatigue and injectionsite pain were some of the noted side effects of the Chinese vaccine, though most of these reactions were mild or moderate. Another caveat was that with the vector for the vaccine being a common cold virus, people may have preexisting immunity that kills the viral carrier before the vaccine can take effect, which could partially hamper the immune responses. Compared with younger people, older participants generally had significantly lower immune responses, the study found. Chen Wei, who spearheaded work on the vaccine, said in a news release that elderly people might possibly require an additional dose to induce a stronger immune response, but further research would be needed to evaluate that approach. CanSino, the developer of the vaccine, is in talks on launching phasethree trials in several foreign countries, Qiu Dongxu, executive director and cofounder of CanSino, said at a conference in Suzhou, Jiangsu province, on Saturday. An accompanying editorial in The Lancet on the two latest vaccine studies called the results of the trials from China and the United Kingdom broadly similar and promising.