Trump will resume daily virus briefings
2020-07-21 10:47
US President Donald Trump listens as he stands in front of a chart during the daily coronavirus response briefing at the White House in Washington, US, March , . PhotoAgencies    Faced with a surge of novel coronavirus cases in more than  states and floundering poll numbers ahead of the November election, President Donald Trump announced Monday that he is reviving daily coronavirus briefings at the White House. I was doing them, and we had a lot of people watching, record numbers watching in the history of cable television, Trump told reporters in the Oval Office. Theres never been anything like it. Its a great way to get information out to the public as to where we are with the vaccines, with the therapeutics. As more states and businesses have mandated the wearing of face masks, Trump on Monday also gave what appeared to be his strongest endorsement yet to wearing a mask, calling it patriotic and tweeting an image of himself wearing one. For months, White House aides have tried to get Trump to wear a face mask, but he has refused and has worn one only once in public during a July  visit to a military hospital. Trump said in a Fox News interview aired this weekend that he opposes a national mask mandate. CNN reported that a source familiar with the presidents thinking said Trump has shifted to encouraging mask wearing primarily because of polls showing Democratic presidential candidate Joe Biden leading him by wide margins in some key states. Trump told reporters that he would probably hold the first of the new series of briefings on Tuesday at  pm EDT. We have had this big flareup in Florida, Texas, a couple of other places, Trump said. Ill get involved and well start doing briefings. As of Monday morning,  states have seen more new cases this past week, compared to new cases from the previous week, according to data from Johns Hopkins University. Trumps advisers had debated a return to the daily briefings that were held in March and April because he often used them to spar with reporters and criticize governors, members of Congress, China and others while frequently making inaccurate statements about the virus. On April , Trump tweeted What is the purpose of having White House News Conferences when the Lamestream Media asks nothing but hostile questions,  then refuses to report the truth or facts accurately. They get record ratings,  the American people get nothing but Fake News. Not worth the time  effort! But with the Trump campaign finding it difficult to hold large campaign rallies because of the outbreak, the briefing gives him a chance to return to the public spotlight. Two potential vaccines against the virus from Oxford University and the Chinese company CanSino have triggered immune responses in hundreds of humans without dangerous side effects, according to two studies published Monday in the British medical journal The Lancet. The CanSino vaccine has also passed safety tests and is heading for an efficacy trial in Brazil. On Monday, an Oxford group and the BritishSwedish pharmaceutical company AstraZeneca reported that their coronavirus vaccine candidate was shown in earlystage human trials to be safe and to stimulate a strong immune response. The study, involving , volunteers, was described as promising. A second report in The Lancet on a Chinese vaccine showed what researchers not involved in the study described as modestly positive results. The US government has pledged up to . billion toward the Oxford effort and secured a promise of  million doses by October. A European alliance has claimed  million doses, while the UK has a claim on  million doses. Largescale trials of the Oxford vaccine  named ChAdOx nCoV  are underway in the UK, Brazil and South Africa. The US plans to test it later this summer, along with a handful of other candidates, in clinical trials, each with about , volunteers. The two vaccines are among  candidates being tested in human trials, according to the World Health Organization. More than  others are in preclinical studies. Florida reported , new coronavirus cases Monday, marking the sixth consecutive day the state has reported more than , new cases. The American Federation of Teachers, the nations largest teachers union, and its local affiliate, the Florida Education Association, sued Governor Ron DeSantis on Monday to block his emergency order of earlier this month mandating that schools across the state reopen five days a week starting in August. They accused the Republican governor of violating a state law requiring that schools be safe and secure. Florida is home to five of the countrys  largest school districts. In California, the number of coronavirus cases and hospitalizations in Los Angeles County reached a new high Sunday, and Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti said that the city was on the brink of imposing new restrictions to prevent the spread of the virus, but he did not elaborate. Health officials in Los Angeles County also said that the latest COVID numbers also indicate that the disease has become most prevalent in the relatively young  percent of the new cases occurred in people under . New York Governor Andrew Cuomo threatened to roll back the reopening of New York Citys bars and restaurants after a weekend that saw crowds in some parts of the city partying outside. We cannot allow those congregations to continue. If it happens, Ill tell you whats going to happen Were going to have to roll back the opening plan, and were going to have to close bars and restaurants, he said at his briefing. Im telling you we are right on the line.