Chinas phase  trial finds COVID vaccine safe, inducing immune response  The Lancet
2020-07-20 22:13
Small bottles labeled with a Vaccine COVID sticker and a medical syringe are seen in this illustration taken taken April , . PhotoAgencies    LONDON  A phase  trial of a COVID vaccine candidate conducted in China has found that the vaccine is safe and induces an immune response, according to a new study published Monday in medical journal The Lancet. The results provide data from a wider group of participants than the phase  trial, which was published in May. Phase  trial involved  healthy adults and it demonstrated promising results. The phase  trial adds further evidence on safety and immunogenicity in a large population than the phase  trial. This is an important step in evaluating this earlystage experimental vaccine and phase  trials are now underway, said Professor Fengcai Zhu from Jiangsu Provincial Center for Disease Control and Prevention, China. According to The Lancet, the trial of the Ad vectored COVID vaccine candidate was conducted in the central Chinese city of Wuhan with  participants taking part. Approximately two thirds of participants were aged  years, with a quarter aged  years, and  percent aged  years or older. Since elderly individuals face a high risk of serious illness and even death associated with COVID infection, they are an important target population for a COVID vaccine, said Professor Wei Chen from the Beijing Institute of Biotechnology in Beijing, China. It is possible that an additional dose may be needed in order to induce a stronger immune response in the elderly population, but further research is underway to evaluate this, Chen said. To battle against COVID, scientists around the world are racing against time to accelerate the development of new treatments and vaccines. China has pledged that its COVID vaccine will be made a global public good when its available. Meanwhile, Britain is also seeing progress in the development of another vaccine candidate. A separate study published Monday in The Lancet reveals the results of the phase  trial of the Oxford coronavirus vaccine ChAdOx nCoV. It indicates no early safety concerns and produces strong immune response. According to the Oxford University, the trial involves more than , healthy adult volunteers. The vaccine provoked a T cell response white blood cells that can attack cells infected with the SARSCoV virus within  days of vaccination, and an antibody response within  days. Despite the promising findings, it is still too soon to know if this is enough to offer protection and larger trials are under way, scientists involved in this study said.