US dollar set to receive pandemic shock
2020-07-20 07:32
A test tube labelled with the coronavirus is placed on US dollar banknotes, in this illustration taken on March , . PhotoAgencies    Pandemic time runs at warp speed. Thats true of the COVID infection rate, as well as the unprecedented scientific efforts under way to develop a vaccine. It is also true of transformational developments currently playing out in pandemicaffected economies. Just as a lockdowninduced recession brought global economic activity to a virtual standstill in a mere two months, hopes for a Vshaped recovery are premised on an equally quick reopening of shuttered economies. It may not be so simple. A sudden haltlong associated with capital flight out of emerging marketsoften exposes deeprooted structural problems that can impair economic recovery. It can also spark abrupt assetprice movements in response to the unmasking of longsimmering imbalances. Such is the case for the pandemicaffected US economy. No free lunch or magic money The aggressive fiscal response to the COVID shock is not without major consequences. Contrary to the widespread belief that budget deficits dont matter because nearzero interest rates temper any increases in debtservicing costs, in the end there is no magic money or free lunch. Domestic savings in the US, already depressed, is headed deep into negative territory. This is likely to lead to a record current account deficit and an outsize plunge in the value of the US dollar. No country can afford to squander its savings potentialultimately, the seedcorn of longterm economic growth. Thats true even of the United States, where the laws of economics have often been ignored under the guise of American exceptionalism. But nothing is forever. The COVID crisis is an especially tough blow for a country that has long been operating on a razorthin margin of subpar savings. Heading into the pandemic, the US net domestic savings ratethe combined depreciationadjusted savings of households, businesses and the government sectorstood at just . percent of national income, falling back to the postglobal financial crisis low of late . No need to worry, goes the conventional excusethe US never saves. Rapidly falling savings rate a big concern for US Think again. The net national savings rate averaged  percent over the year period from  to . And during the s, long recognized as the strongest period of productivityled US economic growth in the postWorld War II era, the net saving rates actually averaged . percent. Expressing these calculations in net terms is no trivial job. Although gross domestic savings in the first quarter of , at . percent of national income, was also below its year norm of  percent from  to , the shortfall was not as severe as that captured by the net measure. Which reflects another worrisome development the US rapidly aging and increasingly obsolete stock of productive capital. Thats where the current account and the dollar come into play. Lacking in savings and wanting to invest and grow, the US typically borrows surplus savings from abroad, and runs chronic currentaccount deficits in order to attract more foreign capital. Thanks to the dollars exorbitant privilege as the worlds dominant reserve currency, this borrowing is normally funded on extremely attractive terms, largely absent interest rate or exchange rate concessions that might otherwise be needed to compensate foreign investors for risk. That was then. In pandemic time, there is no conventional wisdom.The US Congress has moved with unusual speed to provide relief amid a recordsetting economic freefall. The Congressional Budget Office expects unprecedented federal budget deficits averaging  percent of GDP over . Despite the contentious political debate, additional fiscal measures are quite likely. As a result, the net domestic savings rate could be pushed deep into negative territory. This has happened only once before during and immediately after the global financial crisis, when net national savings averaged. percent of national income from the second quarter of  to the second quarter of , while federal budget deficits averaged  percent of GDP. Current account deficit should widen sharply In the COVID era, the net national savings rate could well plunge as low as percent to percent in the next twothree years. That means the savingsshort US economy could well be headed for a significant partial liquidation of net savings. With unprecedented pressure on domestic savings likely to magnify the US need for surplus foreign capital, the current account deficit could widen sharply. Since , this broad measure of external balance has recorded deficits averaging . percent of GDP, but the previous record deficit of . percent of GDP in the fourth quarter of  could be eclipsed. This raises a big question Will foreign investors demand concessions to provide the massive increment of foreign capital that the US savingsshort economy is about to require? The answer depends critically on whether the US deserves to retain its exorbitant privilege. That is not a new debate. What is new is the COVID time warp the verdict may be rendered sooner rather than later. The US is leading the charge into protectionism, deglobalization and decoupling. Its share of world foreign exchange reserves has fallen from a little over  percent in  to a little below  percent today. Its COVID containment has been an abysmal failure. Current account imbalances will impact interest rates And its history of systemic racism and police violence has sparked a transformative wave of civil unrest. Against this background, especially when compared with other major economies, it seems reasonable to conclude that hyperextended savings and current account imbalances will finally have actionable consequences for the dollar andor US interest rates. To the extent that the inflation response lags, and the Federal Reserve maintains its extraordinarily accommodative monetary policy stance, the bulk of the concession should occur through the currency rather than interest rates. Hence, I foresee a  percent drop in the broad dollar index over the next twothree years. Shocking as it may sound, such a seemingly outsize drop in the dollar is not without historical precedent. The US dollars real effective exchange rate fell by  percent between  and , by  percent from  to , and by  percent over the  interval. The COVIDinduced currency shock looks like it will be made in America. The author is a faculty member at Yale University and the author of Unbalanced The Codependency of America and China.Project SyndicateThe views dont necessarily reflect those of China Daily.