Russia lifts mandatory quarantine rule
2020-07-17 10:22
People walk along a street in Moscow, on July , . PhotoAgencies    Russian authorities have lifted mandatory twoweek quarantine for those arriving as part of easing coronavirus restrictions. The dropping of a mandatory quarantine for people arriving from overseas coincided with the resumption of some international flights. Instead, Russians and foreigners alike need to selfisolate for two weeks. Last week, Deputy Prime Minister Tatyana Golikova said Russia may resume international flights starting Wednesday, adding that the final decision would depend on the outcome of negotiations with other countries. Under the eased restrictions that began on Wednesday, all travelers will have to either provide coronavirus test results at the border or take a test within three days of arrival in Russia. Mandatory quarantine remains in place for those who test positive for the virus or whose health deteriorates upon arrival. Its one of several steps in an effort to reopen the country after health officials started reporting a slowdown in infections. Last month, authorities allowed travel abroad for the purpose of work, studying, medical treatment or taking care of relatives. Russian Prime Minister Mikhail Mishustin said on Wednesday that he was glad to see the loosening in restrictions, and claimed the peak of the outbreak in Russia had passed. Mishustin said Russias coronavirus growth rate kept below  percent over the latest hour period. He said the improving situation makes it possible to hold meetings on the epidemiological situation less often. We used to hold meetings of the Coordination Council almost every day but now weekly meetings are enough to resolve all pressing issues, he said. Earlier this week, Russia said it would begin a phase III trial of a COVID vaccine in midAugust, with the doses given to a limited number of ordinary Russians. In a related development, a drug known as Koronavir for treatment of COVID was released in Russia on Wednesday, the drug company RPharm said. Now is not the time to relax,Mishustin stressed, while adding that Russia will continue to monitor the situation, detect the sick, and provide patients with prompt treatment. On Thursday, Russias anticoronavirus crisis center reported , new cases, bringing the total to ,. Xinhua contributed to the story.