US formally withdraws from WHO
2020-07-08 03:57
US President Donald Trump hosts an event on reopening schools amid the coronavirus disease COVID pandemic in the East Room at the White House in Washington, US, July , . PhotoAgencies    It is dangerous and selfdestructive for Washington to withdraw from the World Health Organization WHO, an agency that makes the world and America safer amid the intensifying COVID crisis, experts, lawmakers and group leaders said Tuesday. The White House has officially moved to pull the US out of the WHO by submitting a notice of withdrawal to the United Nations effective July , , officials said. Stephane Dujarric, the spokesperson for UN SecretaryGeneral Antonio Guterres, said, The secretarygeneral ... is in the process of verifying with the World Health Organization whether all the conditions for such withdrawal are met. The move capped months of threats from President Donald Trump to cut funds and sever ties with the UN health body. US House Speaker Nancy Pelosi said Trumps official withdrawal was an act of true senselessness as WHO coordinates the global fight against COVID. With millions of lives at risk, the President is crippling the international effort to defeat the virus, she wrote on Twitter. In its  joint resolution to join the WHO, the US Congress set two conditions for withdrawal to give one years notice and pay WHO dues. As of March , the US, the largest single government donor to the WHO, was behind in its payment of assessed fees. It owes . million in membership dues, according to US media reports. Another Democrat, Congressman Eric Swalwell, also described the decision as irresponsible, reckless, and utterly incomprehensible. He tweeted that withdrawing from the WHO in the midst of the greatest public health crisis of our lifetime is a selfdestructive move. In a statement, Lamar Alexander, the Republican chairman of the Senate health committee, said, I disagree with the presidents decision. He said that the time to look at the mistakes the WHO might have made in connection with the novel coronavirus is after the crisis has been dealt with, not in the middle of it. Globally, there have been nearly  million cases of the coronavirus and at least , known deaths, according to WHO data. About  percent of both figures are in the US. The state of Texas logged a record , new cases on Tuesday, an indicator of how COVID is making a resurgence nationwide. Elizabeth Cousens, president and CEO of the UN Foundation, said WHO is the only body capable of leading and coordinating the global response to COVID. A US withdrawal from WHO would also jeopardize decades of hardwon progress on other critical global health priorities that matter to Americans  from expanding access to vaccines to fighting diseases like polio, malaria and HIVAIDS and working to strengthen health systems everywhere, she said. InterAction, an alliance of international NGOs and partners in the US, said in a statement that Trumps move to withdraw from the WHO is dangerous and shortsighted, adding that the World Health Organization makes the world and America safer in the face of a range of global health threats. Thomas File Jr., president of the Infectious Diseases Society of America, also said America needs to join with the global scientific community in fighting the virus. It has much to learn from other parts of the world that have reduced infection and death rates. Without the WHO, the nation is at higher risk of being inadequately prepared for many health risks of pandemic proportions, he said. The WHO is so deeply woven into the fabric of US public health that extracting it will be difficult, disruptive and damaging, argued Matthew Kavanagh, an assistant professor of global health at Georgetown University, and his colleague, Mara Pillinger, an associate at the universitys ONeill Institute for National and Global Health Law. For example, the US is home to  different WHO collaborating centers  research institutes, universities and US government agencies that work at the intersection of US and global public health, they said in an article posted on the website of Foreign Policy magazine Tuesday. It is naive to think that the essential functions of the WHO could be recreated through bilateral accords  indeed, the long history of failure in state relations on health is proof positive. Trying to do so, and failing, is the last thing the world needs in the middle of a global pandemic, they wrote.