UK launches human trials of new vaccine
2020-06-26 16:43
People enjoy the hot weather at the beach in Brighton, Britain, on Thursday. Hannah McKay  REUTERS    Travelers from the US, Brazil, Russia could be prevented from entering EU The United Kingdom has begun human trials of a new potential novel coronavirus vaccine with about  volunteers set to receive it over the coming weeks. The trial is being led by Robin Shattock and his colleagues at Imperial College London and is among around  vaccine programs under way across the world. The Imperial College vaccine is based on a new approach, using synthetic strands of genetic code, called RNA, which mimic the virus. Tests in animals suggest the vaccine is safe and triggers an effective immune response. Shattock said Weve been able to produce a vaccine from scratch and take it to human trials in just a few months. If our approach works and the vaccine provides effective protection against disease, it could revolutionise how we respond to disease outbreaks in future. Experts at Oxford University have already held human trials on their vaccine program, and will soon start phase two trials overseas. The BBC reported that  vaccines are now in clinical trials five in China, three in the United States, two in the UK, and one each in Australia, Germany and Russia. Europe has seen an increase in weekly cases of COVID for the first time in months as restrictions imposed to curb the spread of the virus are eased, the World Health Organization, or WHO, has said. In  countries, which have not been named, accelerated transmission has led to very significant resurgences, said Regional Director Hans Henri Kluge. However, the WHO anticipated that the situation would calm down further in the majority of countries over the summer. Diplomatic talks in Brussels will continue on Friday to plan the reopening of Europes external borders on July . European Union ambassadors are considering placing a number of countries on a safe list to restart flights with the EU  threatening tensions with some of the blocs biggest global partners. Travelers from the US, Brazil, Russia and Qatar could be among those prevented from entering the EU, according to the plans under discussion. The pandemic continues to cause heavy damage to the employment market, as more European companies this week made moves to release staff after struggling with the downturn in business. Airport ground handling company Swissport is planning to axe , jobs in the UK and Ireland  half its workforce  due to the impact of the novel coronavirus. The UKs Royal Mail is to cut , management jobs, about onefifth of its managers, as it struggles to deal with the effects of the crisis. In a memo seen by Sky News, Swissports chief executive, Jason Holt, said it had been hit hard by COVID with revenues almost completely lost. Holt said The unfortunate fact is that there simply arent enough aircraft flying for our business to continue running as it did before the COVID outbreak, and there wont be again for some time to come. We must adapt to this new reality. On a positive note, Britains largest steelmaker, Tata Steel, is close to agreeing a rescue deal with the government, saving , jobs in a sector that was under pressure even before the lockdown.