Launch of ChinaUAE clinical trials expresses solidarity
2020-06-24 16:56
Ali Obaid Al Dhaheri, UAE ambassador to China, and Yang Xiaoming, chairman of Sinopharm CNBG, are seen at the commencement ceremony of the phase III clinical trials of an inactivated COVID vaccine. Photo provided to chinadaily.com.cn    Sinopharm CNBG will partner with G in vaccine clinical trials. This partnership announcement will see the China National Biotec Group launch phase III clinical trials of an inactivated COVID vaccine in the United Arab Emirates in partnership with G. CNBG is affiliated with the China National Pharmaceutical Group Sinopharm. This agreement comes during extraordinary times, with a significant global challenge to contend with one of the greatest tests humanity has faced in the modern era. His Highness Sheikh Mohamed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, crown prince of Abu Dhabi and deputy supreme commander of the UAE armed forces, only recently outlined how Our founding father, the late Sheikh Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan, laid out a pioneering vision for the UAE, grounded in the values of cooperation, human development and sustainability. His Highness went on to outline that Global cooperation and leadership must take precedence as we work together to recover from the health and economic impact caused by the coronavirus. This bilateral cooperation between the UAE and China follows this same spirit of cooperation  a demonstration of the values that our countries share. As a responsible global community of nations, it is important for countries to work together to improve international health and welfare. This partnership is a testament to the robust and deepening UAEChina comprehensive strategic partnership. Healthcare is an important and essential aspect of this cooperation. This significant project launch offers a fine example of the greater work our nations can achieve together in future, as the world increasingly prioritises health and welfare. I wish the best for this project as our nations work together for the betterment of global health. The author isUAE ambassador to the Peoples Republic of China.