Full text Keynote speech by President Xi Jinping at Extraordinary ChinaAfrica Summit on Solidarity Against COVID
2020-06-18 09:12
Defeating COVID with Solidarity and CooperationKeynote Speech by H.E. Xi JinpingPresident of the Peoples Republic of ChinaAt the Extraordinary ChinaAfrica SummitOn Solidarity Against COVIDBeijing,  June Your Excellency President Cyril Ramaphosa,Your Excellency President Macky Sall,Your Excellencies Heads of State and Government,Your Excellency Moussa Faki Mahamat, Chairperson of the African Union Commission,Your Excellency Antnio Guterres, SecretaryGeneral of the United Nations,Your Excellency Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, DirectorGeneral of the World Health Organization,At such a critical moment in the global fight against COVID, we are gathered together in this Extraordinary ChinaAfrica Summit. Friends old and new are connected via video link to discuss our joint response to COVID and to renew the fraternity between China and Africa. I thank President Ramaphosa and President Sall for joining me in initiating the Summit, and I appreciate the participation of all colleagues present. I also want to send my regards to other African leaders who are not able to be with us today.The sudden onslaught of COVID has taken a heavy toll on countries around the world, with the loss of several hundred thousand precious lives. Here, I suggest that we observe a moment of silence for those who have tragically passed away due to COVID and express our condolences to their families. In the face of COVID, China and Africa have withstood the test of a severe challenge. The Chinese people have put up a fierce fight and made enormous sacrifice to bring the situation in China under control. Still, we remain mindful of the risk of a resurgence. In the same spirit, governments and peoples in Africa have put up a united front and, under the effective coordination by the African Union, have taken strong measures to effectively slow the spread of the virus. These are indeed hardwon results. In the face of COVID, China and Africa have offered mutual support and fought shoulder to shoulder with each other. China shall always remember the invaluable support Africa gave us at the height of our battle with the coronavirus. In return, when Africa was struck by the virus, China was the first to rush in with assistance and has since stood firm with the African people. In the face of COVID, China and Africa have enhanced solidarity and strengthened friendship and mutual trust. Let me reaffirm Chinas commitment to its longstanding friendship with Africa. No matter how the international landscape may evolve, China shall never waver in its determination to pursue greater solidarity and cooperation with Africa.Colleagues,COVID is still affecting many parts of the world. Both China and Africa face the formidable task of combating the virus while stabilizing the economy and protecting peoples livelihoods. We must always put our people and their lives front and center. We must mobilize necessary resources, stick together in collaboration, and do whatever it takes to protect peoples lives and health and minimize the fallout of COVID.First, we must stay committed to fighting COVID together. China will continue to do whatever it can to support Africas response to COVID. China will lose no time in following through on the measures I announced at the opening of the World Health Assembly, and continue to help African countries by providing supplies, sending expert teams, and facilitating Africas procurement of medical supplies in China. China will start ahead of schedule the construction of the Africa CDC headquarters this year. China will work with Africa to fully deliver the health care initiative adopted at the FOCAC Beijing Summit, and speed up the construction of ChinaAfrica Friendship Hospitals and the cooperation between pairedup Chinese and African hospitals. Together, we will build a ChinaAfrica community of health for all. We pledge that once the development and deployment of COVID vaccine is completed in China, African countries will be among the first to benefit.Second, we must stay committed to enhancing ChinaAfrica cooperation. To cushion the impact of COVID, it is important to strengthen Belt and Road cooperation and accelerate the followups to the FOCAC Beijing Summit. Greater priority needs to be given to cooperation on public health, economic reopening, and peoples livelihood.Within the FOCAC framework, China will cancel the debt of relevant African countries in the form of interestfree government loans that are due to mature by the end of . For those African countries that are hardest hit by the coronavirus and are under heavy financial stress, China will work with the global community to give them greater support, by such means as further extending the period of debt suspension, to help them tide over the current difficulty. We encourage Chinese financial institutions to respond to the Gs Debt Service Suspension Initiative DSSI and to hold friendly consultations with African countries according to market principles to work out arrangements for commercial loans with sovereign guarantees. China will work with other members of the G to implement the DSSI and, on that basis, urge the G to extend debt service suspension still further for countries concerned, including those in Africa.China hopes that the international community, especially developed countries and multilateral financial institutions, will act more forcefully on debt relief and suspension for Africa. China will work with the UN, WHO and other partners to assist Africas response to COVID, and do it in a way that respects the will of Africa.To help Africa achieve sustainable development is what matters in the long run. China supports Africa in its effort to develop the African Continental Free Trade Area and to enhance connectivity and strengthen industrial and supply chains. China will explore broader cooperation with Africa in such new business forms as digital economy, smart city, clean energy, and G to boost Africas development and revitalization.Third, we must stay committed to upholding multilateralism. In the face of COVID, solidarity and cooperation is our most powerful weapon. China will work with Africa to uphold the UNcentered global governance system and support WHO in making greater contribution to the global COVID response. We oppose politicization and stigmatization of COVID, and we oppose racial discrimination and ideological bias. We stand firm for equity and justice in the world.Fourth, we must stay committed to taking ChinaAfrica friendship forward. The world is undergoing profound changes unseen in a century. Given the new opportunities and challenges we face, closer cooperation between China and Africa is needed, more than ever. On my part, I will stay in close touch with all of you, my colleagues, to consolidate our friendship and mutual trust, support each other on issues involving our respective core interests, and advance the fundamental interests of China and Africa and, for that matter, of all developing countries. This way, we will be able to take the ChinaAfrica comprehensive strategic and cooperative partnership to a greater height.Colleagues,At the FOCAC Beijing Summit, we agreed to work together to build an even stronger ChinaAfrica community with a shared future. Todays Extraordinary ChinaAfrica Summit on Solidarity against COVID is our concrete step to deliver the commitment we made at the Beijing Summit and to do our part in the international cooperation against COVID. I am convinced that humanity will ultimately defeat the virus, and that the Chinese and African people are poised to embrace better days ahead.Thank you.