Speech by H.E. Ambassador Liu Xiaoming at the Award Ceremony of  Chinese Government Award for Outstanding Selffinanced Students Abroad
2020-06-11 07:23
Chinese Ambassador to the UK Liu Xiaoming. PhotoChineseembassy.org.uk    Dear Teachers and Students, Good morning! It is a real delight to join you at the Award Ceremony of  Chinese Government Award for Outstanding Selffinanced Students Abroad. On behalf of the Chinese Embassy in the UK and the ConsulatesGeneral in Manchester, Edinburgh and Belfast, let me begin by extending my warmest congratulations to this years  outstanding awardees! I would also like to express my heartfelt thanks to all the teachers for the excellent guidance you have given to the awardees! I have never missed this annual event since I became Chinese Ambassador to the UK. This is the th time in a special year. Due to Covid, this is the first time we confer the OSSA Award online. The outbreak of Covid has not just changed our way of communication. It has also posed severe challenges to human society, made huge impact on the world economy and exerted profound influence on the international landscape. It reminds us that all mankind share weal and woe in this global crisis. We all belong to a community with a shared future. It is fair to say that now, more than ever before, we need capable young people with a responsible spirit to advance the progress of mankind, to realize the rejuvenation of the Chinese nation, and to promote the steady and sustained development of ChinaUK relations. Against this background, todays award ceremony bears special significance. I think it reminds our young students of the three missions you have on your shoulders. First, you shoulder the mission of promoting the progress of mankind. Replying to a letter from representatives of science workers last month President Xi Jinping said, Innovation is the primary driving force for development, and science and technology are powerful weapons against difficulties. Addressing global challenges and promoting the constant progress of mankind have always been an important mission for science and technology, and its success lies in scientific and technological innovation. Right now, scientists from all over the world are working day and night on medicines, vaccine, preventive technologies and testing methods that will help mankind beat Covid. The hope of an early breakthrough lies in scientific and technological innovation. The hope of mankind for winwin cooperation and sustainable development also lies in scientific and technological innovation. I would expect our young students to keep in mind this mission and seize the opportunities to take part in scientific and technological innovation, enhance exchanges and share outcomes, so that science and technology could provide new impetus for the prosperity in the world and play a bigger role in the progress of mankind. Second, you shoulder the mission of realizing national rejuvenation. The Chinese nation values patriotism. Serving the motherland is regarded as the foundation of all endeavour and highest ambition in life. In the past  plus years since the founding of New China, our nation has achieved independence, grown prosperous and become strong. We are now embarking on a new journey of building a great modern socialist country in all aspects. This year, we will achieve the first centenary goal, namely, to complete the building of a moderately prosperous society in all aspects and eliminate absolute poverty. This will be a major landmark in Chinas history. Where the young people are ambitious, capable and responsible, the country will have a future and the nation will have hope. To realize the Chinese Dream of national rejuvenation, we need successive generations of young people to make persistent and tireless efforts. I hope you will carry on the glorious tradition of patriotism. I hope you will always live your personal dreams in the greater cause of striving for the Chinese Dream of national rejuvenation. I hope with what you have learnt here and now, you could serve your motherland and people in the future. And I hope your youthful vigour will drive you on as you work harder to realize your dream. Third, you shoulder the mission of deepening ChinaUK relationship. Since it was launched by the China Scholarship Council, OSSA Award has been conferred on  students from about  British universities. You are outstanding representatives of the , Chinese students in the UK. Wherever your future takes you, whether it is academia, education, science and technology or business, I look forward to your contribution to ChinaUK exchanges and cooperation. In , under the support of the Chinese Embassy in the UK, OSSA awardees in the UK took the initiative to set up the worlds first association of their own, ASOSAUK. Early this year when Covid broke out in China, the association acted quickly to raise funds to purchase medical supplies for Hubei. When the epidemic broke out here in the UK, ASOSAUK actively supported the work of the Embassy in inviting medical experts to online lectures on epidemic prevention and medical consultation. These events have been a great comfort and encouragement to students and scholars here in the UK and boosted their morale in carrying on their study and work. With love and kindness, you have built a bridge of mutual assistance between China and the UK. China and the UK differ in social system, history, culture and development stage. But our two countries are both great civilisations with numerous talents and profound culture. Having lived and worked in this country for more than  years, I could feel the enormous enthusiasm of the British people to learn more about China. However, I also have to deal with frequently the bias and distortion of some politicians and media with regard to China. Telling Chinas stories well and making sure our message is heard remains a daunting task. You have the advantage of having studied in both China and the West. I hope you will leverage your strength to bridge the cultural gap, to tear down ideological fences, and to help extend the reach of Chinas stories and the stories of ChinaUK cooperation. President Xi Jinping said, Great deeds emerge from great courage and profound sense of responsibility. I hope you will keep your motherland in mind while embracing the world. I urge you to aim high, keep seeking truth and shoulder your important missions. I am sure you will contribute your youthful vigour and talent to promoting the friendly cooperation between China and other countries, and to the building of a community with a shared future for mankind! Thank you!