Coronavirus vaccine developed in China shows promise after early study in  people
2020-05-29 15:06
Photocansinotech.com.cn    A potential coronavirus vaccine developed in China appeared safe and able to generate an immune response after an early trial in more than  people, according to a new study. The vaccine, called AdnCoV, is being developed by the Chinese company CanSino Biologics, and was one of the first coronavirus vaccines to enter early human trials back in March. Now, there are more than  different coronavirus vaccines in development worldwide, with at least eight of those in the process of human trials. AdnCoV uses a weakened version of a common cold virus  which infects human cells but doesnt cause disease  to deliver a fragment of genetic material from the virus that causes COVID. This genetic material provides instructions for making the spike protein on the surface of the coronavirus. The idea is that a persons immune system will create antibodies against the spike protein, which will help fight off the coronavirus if the person is later exposed to it. In the new study, published on May  in the journal The Lancet, the researchers tested AdnCoV in  healthy people ages  to  who didnt have COVID. Participants received either a low, middle or high dose of the vaccine. Two weeks after vaccination, participants in all three groups showed some level of an immune response to the virus. By  days, nearly all participants had developed antibodies that bound to the coronavirus but dont necessarily attack the virus, and about half of the participants in the low and middledose groups and threequarters of participants in the highdose group developed neutralizing antibodies, which bind to and disable the virus to prevent it from infecting cells. The most common side effects were mild pain at the injection site, mild fever, fatigue, headache and muscle pain, the study said. However, nine participants two in the lowdose group, two in the middledose group and five in the highdose group developed a fever of more than . degrees Celsius, and one participant in the highdose group developed a high fever along with fatigue, shortness of breath and muscle pain. However these effects lasted no more than  hours. Participants were aware of which dose they received, which may have affected their perceptions of the side effects, according to The New York Times. These results represent an important milestone, the studys senior author Wei Chen from the Beijing Institute of Biotechnology in Beijing said in a statement. However, these results should be interpreted cautiously. The challenges in the development of a COVD vaccine are unprecedented, and the ability to trigger these immune responses does not necessarily indicate that the vaccine will protect humans from COVID. The researchers have now started a larger, phase  study of the vaccine involving  participants who will be given a low or intermediate dose of the vaccine, or a placebo. This study will also include participants over  years old, and will look at side effects up to six months after vaccination.