Thinking ahead
2020-05-29 07:51
A file photo taken on April , , of the Metropolitan Museum of Art, one of the top destinations for visitors in New York City. PHOTO BY ZENG YUTIANFOR CHINA DAILY    The Metropolitan Museum of Art is changing its curatorial approach as it prepares to reopen in the future, Zhao Xu reports in New York. After remaining closed since March  due to the COVID pandemic, New Yorks Metropolitan Museum of Art expects to see a change in visitor numbers when it reopens, which is necessitating a change in its curatorial approach, says Kenneth Weine, the Mets chief communications officer. He says  percent of the museums visitors used to be from outside New York City, but when the crisis subsides, we will reopen in a different environment. In an email to China Daily, he adds, Were in the very complex process of rescheduling planned exhibitions and events, which is then cascading across our planning for many yearsjust as it is at other institutions. The change in audiences might also mean a shift in our programming, with more focus put on our own collection and less on expensive loan shows. The Met expects that well all need to be nimble and creative. Well be looking at what great experiences we can offer local visitors from within the museums collections. The museum has an unparalleled advantage in that respect, Weine says. The mayor Bill de Blasio said something very helpful and important the other day. He said that when all these places reopen, New York City residents will likely remember what gems they have in their city, Weine adds. The incredible thing about the Met is that we have . million objects,  million square feet , square meters and  curatorial departments. Theres an abundance of treasures to share from our permanent collection for New Yorkers. However, Weine says that right now things remain shrouded in uncertainty. Our highest priority is the safety of our staff and visitors. And were working closely with the governor, the mayor and the public health authorities right now, he says. They say that New York will have four phases of opening and the first phase will not begin until midJune. Each phase will take two weeks and museums are in the fourth phase. So, its going to take time.