Seeing first light of victory together
2020-05-28 07:51
WU HEPINGFOR CHINA DAILY    China and the Dominican Republic are showing that the world is a community with a shared future The novel coronavirus is still spreading around the world, and humanity is experiencing the most serious global public health emergency since the end of World War II. China has always given top priority to the safety and health of its people and mobilized the whole country to fight against the pandemic. At the same time, in an open, transparent and responsible manner, China has kept the World Health Organization and relevant countries informed on the pandemic in a timely manner. Through painstaking efforts and sacrifices, the domestic spread of the virus has been basically cut off, and major strategic achievements have been made in pandemic prevention and control. Through practice, Chinas social system and governance capacity have withstood severe tests, the countrys comprehensive strength has been fully demonstrated, and the country has played its due role in assuming its responsibilities as a major country. China has also been a victim of the COVID outbreak. After the outbreak of the virus, people from all walks of life in the Dominican Republic offered sympathy and support to China. Foreign Minister Miguel Vargas Maldonado sent a letter of condolences to State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi on behalf of the Dominican government. Major political parties, presidential candidates, and people from all sectors of society in the Dominican Republic also expressed their support, highly affirming Chinas resolute, thorough and scientific antipandemic measures and opposing stigmatization and discrimination. Today, the virus is spreading in the Dominican Republic. We feel the same about it and are ready to do what we can to help and stand shoulder to shoulder with the Dominican people. So far, the first batch of supplies from the Chinese government has been delivered to the Dominican government, mainly to improve the ICU protection capability in hospitals that treat COVID infectors. More than , face masks, , copies of nucleic acid testing reagents, several ventilators, hundreds of sets of protective suits, goggles and other supplies have been provided by Chinas Hunan and Henan provinces and other provinces, as well as by Chinese enterprises such as Alibaba. Huawei has provided AI CT solutions to Santo Domingos Marcelino Velez Santana Hospital and Santiagos Jose Maria Cabral y Baez Hospital, as well as several sets of thermal imaging detectors to the Dominican government to improve the efficiency of detection and diagnosis, and to guarantee life and buy time. In addition, the overseas Chinese community has donated generously to the government and police departments. Besides, China has provided timely COVID prevention and treatment plans to the Dominican Republic. The two countries have held three videoconferences with experts, which helped to establish information communication channels and provide technical support. Dominican President Danilo Medina has thanked China for its assistance. The Chinese embassy in the Dominican Republic gave full play to its advantages on the front line and maintained close communication with the Dominican government. After learning that Santo Domingo Institute of Technology INTEC was promoting a ventilator development program, we offered funding and contacted Chinese component manufacturers to speed up production and delivery. Currently, there is a shortage of pandemic prevention supplies in the world, we facilitated the Dominican Republic with the commercial procurement of such supplies in China, and helped the coordination of production, transportation, and customs clearance of Dominican enterprises in China. We have also donated to the local governments of Santo Domingo, the capital city, and the secondlargest city of Santiago, as well as to the Dominican Olympic committee, the State Post Office, local hospitals and charities. This year is the Dominican Year for the Consolidation of Food Security. The Chinese government and the United Nations World Food Program are jointly implementing a food aid project to the Dominican Republic. We will purchase more than  metric tons of nutritious food from selected sources around the world and deliver it to more than , people in nine provinces of the Dominican Republic. The pandemic has had an impact on personnel exchanges and bilateral trade relations between China and the Dominican Republic. Due to shipping problems, it is difficult for Chinas antipandemic supplies to reach the Dominican Republic at the first time. However, these difficulties are temporary. As the situation improves, the potential for cooperation between the two sides will be released. We have full confidence in developing bilateral relations. We will continue to help the Dominican people fight against the pandemic. We will strengthen economic and trade relations between the two countries to promote economic recovery, and at the same time enhance the scope of cooperation to bring more benefits to people. Going forward, we will promote exchanges and cooperation between the health authorities of the two countries and build a comprehensive framework for exchanges and cooperation from the central to the local level. We will advance the  urban emergency response projects and enhance cooperation in emergency management and capacity building for the prevention and control of major diseases. At the opening ceremony of the rd World Health Assembly, Chinese President Xi Jinping announced that China will provide  billion in international assistance over two years and that should China develop a COVID vaccine it will be a global public good. We always believe that mankind is a community with a shared future. Only when all countries work together can we achieve ultimate success. We are ready to join hands with the Dominican people to fight against the pandemic and embrace the first light of victory. The author is the Chinese ambassador to the Dominican Republic. The author contributed this article to China Watch, a think tank powered by China Daily. The views do not necessarily reflect those of China Daily.