US stocks open higher on hope for economic rebound
2020-05-26 23:40
US stocks opened higher Tuesday on continued optimism about an economic rebound and encouraging news about the development of a coronavirus vaccine.The strength and trajectory of the recovery are unclear, but investors apparently believe the worst is over.There are at least  coronavirus vaccines under development, raising hope that at least one will come to market and halt spread of the coronavirus.Novavax said Monday it began human testing of its vaccine in Australia and expects results in July. If promising, the Gaithersburg, Marylandbased company plans to follow up with broader testing in the US.In early trading, Novavaxs stock surged . percent.Competitors Moderna and Pfizer are among those also developing a vaccine.In early trading, Modernas shares fell . percent. Pfizers stock added . percentWhile still much lower than prepandemic levels, airline bookings appear to be increasing.UBS, citing a clearer path for domestic travel recovery, upgraded shares of Southwest airlines to buy. In early trading, Southwests stock climbed . percent.Other airlines also benefited from hope for an economic rebound.American Airlines rose . percent. Delta added . percent. United rose . percent.There were  coronavirusrelated deaths reported Sunday, the fewest since midApril. Nevertheless, the number of deaths in the US is set to pass , this week. So far, there have been . million reported infections in the US.Worldwide, about , people have died and total infections total about . million.The US Federal Reserve and central banks around the world have cut interest rates and pumped money into the economy to ease the impact lockdowns.Nevertheless, the coronavirus pandemic is expected to erode global GDP for the remainder of the year.The International Monetary Fund said the world faces the deepest global recession since the s. The World Bank believes the worlds economic output will shrink  percent this year.The US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention CDC recommends daily health checks while encouraging employees to wear cloth facemasks, observe social distancing and erect barriers between desks as needed.Floor trading resumed Tuesday at the New York Stock Exchange with Plexiglas barriers between traders. The number of traders on the floor is limited to  percent of usual and facemasks are required. Traders are required to avoid public transit.In early trading Tuesday, the Dow Jones Industrial Average gained . points, or . percent, to ,.. The SP  rose . percent. The Nasdaq Composite rose . percent.On Friday, the Dow closed down . points, or . percent, at ,.. The SP  rose . percent. The Nasdaq Composite added . percent.In early trading Tuesday, West Texas Intermediate Crude Oil futures, rose . percent to . a barrel. Brent crude, the worldwide benchmark, gained . percent to . a barrel.The price of oil is an indicator of future economic activity. Rising prices suggest traders are optimistic about an economic turnaround.Oil prices plunged during the downturn and briefly turned negative as demand fell, supply outstripped demand and storage tanks filled up, sending Whiting Petroleum and Diamond Offshore Drilling into bankruptcy.Bankruptcies caused by the coronavirusrelated downturn continue to pile up.Hertz, a car rental company launched in  with a dozen Ford Model Ts, became the latest to seek to reorganize its debts amid what it called uncertainty.The impact of Covid on travel demand was sudden and dramatic, causing an abrupt decline in the companys revenue and future bookings, the company said it a statement.National retailers J.C. Penney, Neiman Marcus and J. Crew have filed for bankruptcy protection amid the economic downturn.But AutoZone, an autoparts retailer for the doityourself market, beat Wall Streets earnings estimates. Samestore sales, or sales at stores open at least one year, slipped  percent compared with the . percent decline forecast by analysts.In early trading, AutoZones stock rose . percent.Hibbett Sports, an athletic footwear an apparel retailer, beat Wall Streets earnings estimates. Samestore sales fell . percent during the coronavirus outbreak, but less than the  percent estimated by analysts. Ecommerce sales more than doubled compared with the same period a year ago.In early trading, Hibberts shares rose . percent.Brewer Molson Coors said its furloughing an unspecified number of workers in North America and Europe after sales were hit hard by the governmentordered closure of bars and restaurants to curb the spread of the coronavirus.The company said it will suspend its quarterly dividend to conserve cash.In early trading, the companys stock rose . percent.