WHO stops drug trial over mortality rate claim
2020-05-26 04:34
WHO DirectorGeneral Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus. PhotoAgencies    Chinese contribution to international study welcomed by organization The World Health Organization, or WHO, said on Monday that it has temporarily suspended the trial of hydroxychloroquine as a drug to be used in treatment of COVID after an article in medical journal The Lancet suggested it caused a high mortality. Launched by the WHO and its partners more than two months ago, the Solidarity Trial initiative aims to evaluate the safety and efficacy of four drugs and drug combinations, including hydroxychloroquine, against COVID. More than  hospitals in  countries are actively recruiting patients and so far nearly , patients from  countries have been enrolled. On Friday The Lancet published an observational study on hydroxycholoroquine and chloraquine, and their effects on hospitalized COVID patients. The authors reported that among patients receiving the drug, when used alone or with a macrolide, a higher mortality rate was estimated. WHO DirectorGeneral Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said that the executive group of the Solidarity Trial, representing  of the participating countries, met on Saturday, and had agreed to review a comprehensive analysis and critical appraisal of all evidence available globally. He said the review will consider data collected so far in the Solidarity Trial and, in particular, robust randomized available data, to adequately evaluate the potential benefits and harms of this drug. The executive group has implemented a temporary pause of the hydroxychloroquine arm within the Solidarity Trial while the safety data is reviewed by the Data Safety Monitoring Board, he told a virtual news conference from Geneva. The other arms of the trial are continuing, he added. I wish to reiterate that these drugs are accepted as generally safe for use in patients with autoimmune diseases or malaria, he said, in reference to hydroxychloroquine. The Lancet study involved , COVID patients, nearly , of whom were given hydroxychloroquine, or its related form chloroquine, either alone or with an antibiotic. It found that these patients were more likely to die in hospital and develop heart rhythm complications than other COVID patients in a comparison group. United States President Donald Trump shocked the world last week when he said that he has been taking hydroxychloroquine, the drug he has also promoted in previous speeches. A lot of good things have come out about the hydroxy. A lot of good things have come out. Youd be surprised at how many people are taking it, especially the frontline workers  before you catch it, he said at the White House on May . I happen to be taking it. I happen to be taking it. ... Im taking it  hydroxychloroquine  right now. But in an interview aired on Sinclair Broadcasting on Sunday, Trump claimed that he had just finished taking a twoweek course of the hydroxychloroquine. Finished, just finished, he was quoted as saying, by NBC News. At Mondays briefing, Tedros was also asked to comment on Chinas State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yis remarks on Sunday that China is open to international scientific study into the origin of the coronavirus that causes COVID. Tedros said the study of the origin of the virus is not new, and the group of international experts visiting China in February have already agreed on that. So it has been on the table. Its a matter of continuing and doing it, he said. He said that all stakeholders understand the importance of studying the origin of the virus to prevent it from happening again in the future. Mike Ryan, executive director of the WHO Health Emergencies Programme, said he is very pleased to hear a very consistent message coming from China, which is one of openness to such an approach. I dont believe there is a date yet for scientific mission but we will be looking forward to doing that as soon as possible, he said. Both Tedros and Ryan said last week that priority now is to contain and control the spread of the virus. Ryan said he was pleased to see the publication of the first peer review publication of the vaccine study from China, and the many other scientific publications on COVID from China over the last months. The number of scientific collaborations between Chinese institutions and institutions all over the world is also a very positive sign, Ryan said.