Nation hailed for efforts in pandemic fight
2020-05-24 10:07
Chinese medical workers leave Manila, capital of the Philippines, last month after a twoweek stay to help the country fight the virus.PhotoXinhua    China has played responsible global role during health crisis, UK observers say China has acted as a responsible global player, both to its own people and those elsewhere in the world, in the fight against the novel coronavirus pandemic, according to observers from the United Kingdom. It has done so by being one of the first nations to emerge from lockdown and restore economic and social activities, they said. Christopher Bovis, a professor of international business law at the University of Hull, said China has shown strong global leadership to the world in efforts to combat the pandemic and has led the way by introducing a range of public policy measures. Chinas best practice of social distancing and movement control has paid dividends in controlling infected areas. A pioneering system of screening and monitoring the population has played a significant role in the dynamic planning of response measures by governments, he said. COVID has reached more than  countries and regions, infected about  million people and claimed over , lives. International and crossborder collaboration is important to tackle the pandemicsomething China strongly believes in, Bovis said. The country has shown demonstrable commitment and willingness in collaborating on COVIDrelated research, vaccine development and medical equipment provisionencouraging openness and data sharing in order to help ensure diagnostics, vaccines and prevention measures are developed rapidly for the benefit of every nation, he added. The impact of the pandemic on Chinas global standing has featured in discussions during the two sessions, the countrys most important annual political events, which got underway on Thursday. The two sessions are usually held in March, but this year were postponed for two months due to the pandemic.