Li stresses stabilizing fundamentals for growth
2020-05-24 09:31
Premier Li Keqiang joins the group discussion of NPC deputies from the Guangxi Zhuang autonomous region on Saturday.PhotoXinhua    Premier Li Keqiang reiterated on Saturday the importance of stabilizing Chinas economic fundamentals with stronger measures to create jobs, safeguard peoples livelihoods and protect market players as the country faces unprecedented challenges due to the COVID pandemic. Speaking during a panel discussion with deputies to the th National Peoples Congress from the Guangxi Zhuang autonomous region, the premier pledged more steps to help small, micro and mediumsized businesses and selfemployed individuals cope with the challenging period. More support will be extended to those on flexible payrolls such as small traders, said Li, who is also a member of the NPC delegation from Guangxi. In the face of unprecedented challenges to its development, China must coordinate epidemic containment and socioeconomic development and blaze a new path that allows for an effective response to shocks and sustains positive growth. He explained that fiscal funding increased from last year, due to an expanded budget deficit and the issuance of special central government bonds worth  trillion yuan  billion, and this will be transferred to governments at county and city levels to support job creation and safeguard peoples livelihoods. To ensure that the peoples basic needs are met, the country can also shore up consumer spending, which is now a key driver of Chinas economic growth, he said. More work must be done to guarantee the wellbeing of those experiencing difficulties and win the battle against extreme poverty, the premier said, adding that weak links in rural infrastructure, healthcare, ecology and the environment must be tackled as soon as possible. He called for greater steps forward in reform and openingup to overcome obstacles, promote fair competition and roll out more concrete steps to help businesses and create a marketoriented, lawbased and internationalized business environment. Li called on officials from Guangxi to give play to the regions geographical advantages, expand openingup and build the region into a platform for highlevel openingup. While working to fulfill its main targets and tasks for this year, the regional authorities must rely on Guangxis various ethnic groups in seeking further development and taking measures to ensure the peoples wellbeing, he said. Li also joined panel discussions with some members of the th National Committee of the Chinese Peoples Political Consultative Conference on Saturday afternoon. Political advisers taking part in the discussion were from the China Association for Science and Technology and from the science and technology sector. Li called for greater research and development of more convenient and efficient testing technologies and effective pharmaceuticals and vaccines, a key pillar of winning the battle against the pandemic. The level of fundamental research must be further enhanced, and businesses must be encouraged to step up research and development, he said. The premier highlighted the need to transfer outcomes in scientific and technological research to production more quickly, bolster the level of security for industry and supply chains and enhance the momentum of new growth engines. Reforms to streamline administration and improve compliance oversight and services must be further deepened to reduce the burden on researchers so that they can focus more on their work, he added. Li Zhanshu, Wang Yang, Wang Huning and Zhao Leji, who are also members of the Standing Committee of the Political Bureau of the Communist Party of China Central Committee, also joined panel discussions with political advisers on Saturday.