COVID vaccines must be recognized as public goods, all countries must contribute WHO
2020-05-23 09:45
A researcher works in a lab at the DukeNUS Medical School, which is developing a way to track genetic changes that speed testing of vaccines against COVID, in Singapore March , . PhotoAgencies    GENEVA  The World Health Organization WHO reiterated on Friday that COVID vaccines must be recognized as public goods for the whole world, and that all countries must contribute. We cant prevent pathogens, germs from crossing our borders. And thats why these vaccines have to be recognized as protecting the whole of the world and the contributions from every country to do that, Katherine OBrien, director of WHOs Department of Immunization, Vaccines and Biologicals, said in a press conference in Geneva on Friday, reiterating COVID vaccines be recognized as global public health goods. The outbreak of pathogens dont recognize borders. Although one country may be able to vaccinate a high proportion of individuals, and in fact, even induce herd immunity in the country, the transmission of pathogens crosses borders, she said, adding that were all at risk when any country is at risk. OBrien gave a classic example of measles for illustration Measles anywhere is measles everywhere. And when we have measles anywhere, it means every country must continue to immunize and immunize at the rate that it does protect every individual in the community. Seth Berkley, CEO of Gavi, a global Vaccine Alliance, said that its important to think about the fact that immunization is not only about protecting the individual, but its also about creating herd immunity and protecting the rest of society. And thats a critical point, because even if you know if your child or your family cannot be immunized, because they have an immunosuppressive disease or because the vaccine doesnt take. What protects them, is the fact that other people around them are protected,  he said. Thats why immunization has the characteristics of a global public good, and why in the discussion now, as developing COVID vaccines, one of the critical issues there, is to think about the role it will play in ending the pandemic, he added, stressing the vaccines ability to get rid of infection in surrounding communities, to get rid of reservoirs of infection, etc. Countries should be prepared, be innovative, think of vaccines as an investment, said Henrietta Fore, executive director of UNICEF, emphasizing that its smart, strategic, and also an obligation for children. So what we worry about most are the countries that are very poor ... the poorest households in every country, and we worry about girls. So as you think about where we need vaccines and how broad it should be, this is our focus and intent, and need as a world, she added.