Patients claims cast doubt on true timeline of outbreak in US
2020-05-22 11:04
Centers for Disease Control CDC Director Robert Redfield talks with other attendees prior to US President Donald Trumps arrival to speak about administration efforts to develop a novel coronavirus vaccine at a COVID pandemic response event in the Rose Garden at the White House in Washington, US, May , . PhotoAgencies    Discussions on the internet have aroused curiosity about the true timeline of how the deadly COVID outbreak is spreading in the United States, as the country has the worlds most cases and some citizens have said that they believed that they contracted the virus last year. Michael Melham, the mayor of Belleville, New Jersey, said that he has tested positive for COVID antibodies and believes he contracted the virus in November, over two months before the first reported case in the US on Jan . I stand up to say that I was sick in November. I met all of the criteria. I have a positive antibody test, and I am certainly not alone in my assertion that I was sick in November. There are many, many other people, he said in early May in a video interview with China Global Television Network. This is not the first time that the timeline has been challenged. While the first reported COVID fatality in the US was in Seattle on February , an autopsy on a person in California who died on Feb  has revealed that the first US coronavirusrelated death came weeks earlier. The Medical ExaminerCoroner performed autopsies on two individuals who died at home on February ,  and February , ... Today, the Medical ExaminerCoroner received confirmation from the CDC that tissue samples from both cases are positive for SARSCoV, the virus that causes COVID, Santa Clara County said in a statement on April . Jeffrey V. Smith, the county executive and a medical doctor, said recently that the virus may have arrived on US shores as early as December, several media reported. At that time, many US citizens were suffering from a reported flu which had killed more than a thousand people, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, or CDC. CDC Director Robert Redfield said during a House Oversight Committee meeting on March  that some US citizens who seemingly died from influenza tested positive for the novel coronavirus in the posthumous diagnosis. Some cases have actually been diagnosed that way in the United States today, he said. Earlier last year, a mysterious lung illness being linked with vaping by US health authorities had appeared in the country, and its symptoms were described as cough, fever and respiratory failure, which are similar to those of COVID. In addition to that, EMCrit, an information website released chest images of CT scans of vaping patients showing bilateral groundglass opacities, which is known to be one of the typical symptoms and diagnostic evidence of COVID. The vaping outbreak began in the summer last year and continued into spring. It caused  deaths and more than , cases across  states, the District of Columbia, and two US territories, according to the latest CDC update. What if all those vaping deaths last November were actually coronavirus? a Twitter user named F. Thot Bitchgerald asked in a post on May .