UN chief calls for help for Africa in COVID response
2020-05-20 14:28
A mine worker with a mask hanging on his face walks at the end of his shift during a nationwide COVID lockdown in South Africa, May , . PhotoAgencies    UNITED NATIONS  UN SecretaryGeneral Antonio Guterres on Wednesday called for international action to help Africa deal with the COVID pandemic. These are still early days for the pandemic in Africa, and disruption could escalate quickly. Global solidarity with Africa is an imperative  now and for recovering better, said Guterres in a video message for the launch of a policy brief on the impact of COVID on Africa. Ending the pandemic in Africa is essential for ending it across the world, he said. We are calling for international action to strengthen Africas health systems, maintain food supplies, avoid a financial crisis, support education, protect jobs, keep households and businesses afloat, and cushion the continent against lost income and export earnings, said Guterres. African countries should also have quick, equal and affordable access to any eventual vaccine and treatment, that must be considered global public goods, he added. He repeated his call for a global response package amounting to at least  percent of the worlds gross domestic product. For Africa, that means more than  billion as additional support from the international community, he said. Guterres reiterated his call for a comprehensive debt framework, starting with an acrosstheboard debt standstill for countries unable to service their debt, followed by targeted debt relief and a comprehensive approach to structural issues in the international debt architecture to prevent defaults. African countries should work to silence the guns and address violent extremism. Political processes and elections in the coming months offer potential milestones for stability and peace. Women and youth must be empowered, said the UN chief. He warned that the pandemic threatens African progress. It will aggravate longstanding inequalities and heighten hunger, malnutrition and vulnerability to disease. Already, demand for Africas commodities, tourism and remittances are declining. The opening of the trade zone has been pushed back, and millions could be pushed into extreme poverty. The virus has taken more than , African lives. Vigilance and preparedness are critical, he said.