Scholars say Xis proposals at WHA important to global pandemic combat
2020-05-19 14:43
President Xi Jinping delivers a speech via video link on Monday in Beijing at the opening of the rd session of the World Health Assembly. LI XUEREN  XINHUA    BEIJING  Experts and scholars across the world spoke highly of Chinese President Xi Jinpings Monday speech at the rd World Health Assembly WHA, hailing his proposals are of great importance to promote global cooperation in the pandemic fight. Addressing the opening of the WHA session via video link, Xi announced concrete measures to boost global fight against COVID, such as providing international aid and making the countrys COVID vaccine a global public good when available. According to the scholars, Xis speech upholds the vision of building a global community of health for all and demonstrates Chinas sense of responsibility amid the crisis. Ren Minghui, assistant directorgeneral for Universal Health CoverageCommunicable and Noncommunicable Diseases of the World Health Organization WHO, said Xis speech is visionary and pragmatic, which once again demonstrates Chinas firm belief in building a community with a shared future for mankind. Xi not only talked about how to effectively prevent and control the spread of the disease, but also on support for economic recovery and social development of the affected countries, especially developing countries, as well as for the WHOs actions, Ren said. Nadhum Ali Abdullah, an Iraqi analyst from Baghdadbased think tank Arab Forum, said Xis speech at the WHA sent a message that the mankind has a common destiny, and that China is opening its doors to international cooperation to combat this pandemic. Igor Shatrov, deputy director of Russias National Institute for the Development of Modern Ideology, said the coronavirus pandemic is a serious test in which humanity must realize that we live in a single world and have a common destiny, so it should unite in the face of a global threat. Noting that Chinas efforts are particularly remarkable amid the pandemic, Sylwester Szafarz, former consul general of Poland in the Chinese city of Shanghai, said, They are aiming at sharing valuable Chinese experience and expertise, modern equipment and highly qualified medical personnel with numerous other nations in need. Adhere Cavince, a Kenyan researcher of international relations with a focus on ChinaAfrica relations, said that global health governance requires urgent strengthening, adding that such cooperation can only take place when countries deal with each other in an honest, transparent, and reciprocal manner. French writer and sinologist Sonia Bressler pointed out that Xis speech confirms an opening of China to the world and a shared and collective responsibility. Noting Chinas support and help to African countries in the fight against the pandemic, she said the brotherhood is necessary, demonstrating Xis Chinese vision of Tianxia, which means we all live under the same sky.