Prospect of UK trade deal with US could mean delicate role for China
2020-05-19 11:14
FILE PHOTO A sign is pictured as British flags flutter at Parliament Square, on Brexit day, in London, Britain January , .PhotoAgencies    It took a deadly global pandemic to knock Brexit off the front pages in the United Kingdom. The abrasive debate over the countrys future relationship with the European Union dominated the national discourse from the moment a majority voted in mid to quit the bloc. But Prime Minister Boris Johnson barely had time to celebrate his election victory last December on a promise to Get Brexit Done before COVID struck. Now, with the UK reeling from the secondhighest death toll in the pandemic, Brexit has resurfaced as the clock runs down to its final break with Europe at the end of the year. Nothing much changed when the UK formally left the EU at the end of January . However, a new trade agreement with the EU has to be worked out during a transitional period that runs out at the end of . If current online talks fail, the UK will leave without a deal. In separate negotiations, the Johnson government is also trying to secure a quick and favorable trade deal with the United States, to compensate for a possible nodeal with Europe. However, with the LondonBrussels talks bogged down in disagreement just months ahead of the deadline, the Johnson government is reported to be facing a them or us ultimatum from US President Donald Trump, who wants the UK to reduce its ties with China as the price for a trade deal with the US. The proBrexit and broadly proJohnson Daily Express reported this week that with UKUS trade talks about to enter their third week, a wellplaced White House source has said that China is now a leading issue. The antiBrexit, leftofcenter Guardian, meanwhile, reported The US is seeking to insert a clause that would allow it to retreat from parts of the deal if Britain reaches a trade agreement with another country that the US did not approve. The newspaper said the proposed clause did not specifically mention China but was regarded by British diplomats in Washington as a lever to deter closer UKChina relations. The US pressure puts the UK government in a quandary. Successive Conservative Party governments have established good relations with Beijing, particularly on the economic front, since former prime minister David Cameron heralded the start of a golden era of the ChinaUK relationship in . At the same time, it has sought to navigate the challenges of the America First policy that Trump has imposed in the US, traditionally the UKs closest ally. The UK has, so far, resisted pressure to cut Chinas Huawei out of its G plans, and has not been tempted by the Trump conspiracy theories that blame China for the novel coronavirus. Despite failings in the UKs COVID responsethe obsession with getting Brexit done may have blinded ministers to the looming health crisisthe Johnson government has championed the need for a multilateral response to the pandemic. Former Labour Party cabinet minister Ed Balls, hardly a Johnson fan, wrote that UK officials saw the UKs forthcoming presidency of the G group of advanced economies as an opportunity to champion a new multilateralism in economic, trade and health policy in the wake of the global pandemic. By contrast, he wrote in the UKs Financial Times, the Trump administration had halted funding from the World Health Organization, failed to attend a UK cochaired vaccine conference, and had doubled down on its hostile antiChina, antiglobal governance view of the world. Mr Trump will be searching for allies in the coming weeks and will look to Britain for support, Balls concluded. The differences between Washington and London were apparent, before the COVID crisis hit Europe, during a visit to London by US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo in late January. While Pompeo talked up the prospects of a US trade deal with the UK, British officials rebuffed his pressure to ban Huawei. But can the Johnson government afford to continue to act tough, given the looming deadline with the EU? Brexit ultras in the Conservative Party would positively welcome a nodeal outcome with Brussels but that prospect is making voters increasingly nervous as they confront a separate crisis. At a time when the UK and other countries are facing a postpandemic recession, recent polls indicate that at least a narrow majority think a nodeal Brexit would be a bad idea. For the time being, the Johnson government is adamant that it will not seek an extension from the EU if no new trade deal is in sight by the end of the year. In those circumstances, the last thing it needs is to be forced to choose between its relationships with Washington and Beijing. London, or at least some UK officials, might be hoping that the outcome of the US election in November will resolve the dilemma for them at the last minute.