US stocks advance on positive news about a potential vaccine
2020-05-18 23:41
US stocks rallied Monday on positive news about a potential vaccine for the coronavirus.In early trading, the Dow Jones Industrial Average gained . points, or . percent, to ,.. The SP  gained . percent. The Nasdaq Composite advanced . percent.Shares of Moderna, a company that has been working on a vaccine for the coronavirus, jumped  percent.Modernas earlystage human trial for a coronavirus vaccine produced antibodies in all  participants, the biotech company said Monday.In the rd day of the trial, or two weeks after participants received a second dose, levels of antibodies were generally at levels seen in blood samples from people who recovered from the disease, the company announced.When combined with the success in preventing viral replication in the lungs of a preclinical challenge model at a dose that elicited similar levels of neutralizing antibodies, these data substantiate our belief that mRNA has the potential to prevent COVID disease and advance our ability to select a dose for pivotal trials, Tal Zaks, Modernas chief medical officer, said in a statement.The US economy could contract as much as  percent in the second quarter but wont plunge into a Depression like the s, Federal Reserve Chairman Jerome Powell believes.In an interview with CBS News program  Minutes on Sunday, Powell the strength of the US financial system and the nations dynamic economy likely will produce a solid rebound despite an unemployment rate that could climb as high as  percent.I think theres a good chance that there will be positive growth in the third quarter, and I think its a reasonable expectation that there will be growth in the second half of the year, Powell said.I would say though were not going to get back to where we were quickly. We wont get back to where we were by the end of the year. Thats unlikely to happen.Powell said shrinkage of the US economy could easily be in the s or s percent but the situation differs from the Great Depression because the Federal Reserve has taken steps to support the economy and Congress has approved nearly  trillion in emergency funding. The House has passed and the Senate and is about to debate a second stimulus package.About . million people have filed unemployment claims in the last two months. The unemployment rate is . percent and almost certain to go higher.West Texas Intermediate crude, the gauge for US prices, rose . percent to . a barrel, the first time futures traded above  a barrel since March. Brent crude, the worldwide benchmark, rose . percent to . a barrel. The price of oil is a proxy for future economic activity. Rising prices reflect optimism.Jack Ma, cofounder of Chinese ecommerce site Alibaba, resigned from SoftBank Groups on Monday shortly before SoftBank announced its largest annual loss ever.Softbank lost . billion for the fiscal year ended March  compared with a profit of . billion a year ago. The loss was driven by SoftBanks investment in WeWork, a sharedspace office company, and other technology enterprises hit had by the coronavirus.In a related action, Softbank is exploring the sale of a large percentage of its TMobile shares to controlling shareholder Deutsche Telecom, The Wall Street Journal reported.Softbank apparently seeks to raise money because of the loss. TMobile is valued at about  billion. The Journal said talks are preliminary and no agreement has been reached. If completed, the deal would boost Deutsche Telecoms stake in TMobile above  percent.Apple plans to reopen stores this week in California, Colorado, Florida, Hawaii, Oklahoma, and Washington state, The New York Times reported.While some stores in those states will remain closed, the announcement is a sign of a gradual return to business.Recently, the company has started to reopen stores in Australia, Austria and South Korea.In March, Apple closed about  stores, including nearly every location outside China to combat the spread of the coronavirus. Stores in Canada and Italy will remain closed.