US GDP could easily contract  in Q Feds Powell
2020-05-18 07:30
US Federal Reserve Chairman Jerome Powellspeaks to reporters in Washington, March , . PhotoAgencies    WASHINGTON The business shutdowns caused by the cornavirus pandemic could easily cause the US economy to collapse by  to  percent this quarter, Federal Reserve Chairman Jerome Powell said Sunday. Although unemployment could peak at  to  percent, a level not seen since the s, Powell said the country will avoid another depression. I think theres a good chance that therell be positive growth in the third quarter, Powell told the CBS program  Minutes. The US economy will recover from the COVID pandemic, but the process could stretch through until the end of , Powell said. Assuming theres not a second wave of the coronavirus, I think youll see the economy recover steadily through the second half of this year, Powell said in an excerpt of an interview that aired Sunday morning on CBSs Face the Nation. For the economy to fully recover, people will have to be fully confident. And that may have to await the arrival of a vaccine, he said. The Fed chief noted that people should not bet against the American economy in the long run, even in the medium run. This economy will recover. It may take a while. It may take a period of time. It could stretch through the end of next year. We really dont know, he said. At an online event held by the Washingtonbased think tank Peterson Institute for International Economics on Wednesday, Powell warned that a prolonged recession and weak recovery from the pandemic could lead to an extended period of low productivity growth and stagnant incomes. While the economic response has been both timely and appropriately large, it may not be the final chapter, given that the path ahead is both highly uncertain and subject to significant downside risks, he said. The scope and speed of this downturn are without modern precedent, significantly worse than any recession since World War II, said the Fed chief. More than . million Americans have applied for unemployment benefits since the COVID pandemic forced widespread business closures in midMarch, according to the Labor Department. AFPXinhua