Shocking social Darwinism of Washington
2020-05-18 07:29
US President Donald Trump speaks about administration efforts to develop a vaccine as Dr. Debbie Birx, the White House coronavirus response coordinator, and National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases Director Dr. Anthony Fauci listen during a coronavirus disease COVID pandemic response event in the Rose Garden at the White House in Washington, May , . PhotoAgencies    As some US media outlets have pointed out, the US administrations response to the COVID pandemic is nothing but a stateapproved sacrifice of the old, the poor, black and Latin American citizens. As of Sunday, more than . million people had been infected with the virus in the United States, among whom about , have died, accounting for onethird of the worlds total. But the White Houses rhetoric shows the decisionmakers of the country still think they have done a much better job than many other countries. The right to life is the foundation of human rights. In the face of the pandemic, nothing is more important than saving peoples lives, which is also the priority of most countries in their dealing with the pandemic. The US is an exception, although it has always labeled itself as a global human rights defender. Onethird of the deaths caused by the virus in the US are senior citizens, and nursing homes and care facilities have proved to be the most vulnerable places due to the lack of necessary support from the government. Some US politicians even said the elderly should be sacrificed for the economy. Also, the COVID death rate for white people is much lower than it is for black and Hispanic people, many of whom do not have medical insurance, and cannot afford medication after being infected. With its strong medical research, public health system and government finance, the US should have taken care of its most needy groups of people. That the US administration is urging the resumption of the economy means it is intent on turning a blind eye to the sufferings of the most vulnerable people in the country during the pandemic. The US government is undoubtedly failing in its duty to protect every citizens right to life. And if the government does not feel shame about that, its legitimacy is questionable.