Game, set and ouch as players feel the postlockdown pain
2020-05-15 09:08
Hugues Herbert and Nicolas Mahut lift trophy as they celebrate winning their doubles final match against South Africas Raven Klaasen and New Zealands Michael Venus inLondon, Nov , . PhotoAgencies    Veteran Mahut admits to plenty of aches after first training session in weeks Nicolas Mahut once spent three days on court in the longest match in tennis history, yet even light training for one hour proved challenging for him on Wednesday. Thats because he was returning to practice following many weeks of staying at home amid the coronavirus pandemic. The lockdown that started on March  in France ended on Monday, releasing Mahut and other professionals gingerly back onto court. Mahut traded shots of varying speed and accuracy with practice partner Gregoire Barrere. It feels good to play tennis again. Everyone had missed it the players, the coaches, Mahut said after the session, held at a training center near the grounds of the French Open at Roland Garros. The big risk is to get injured, Mahut said.We played leisurely for one hour and there are already a few pains. For Mahut and many other athletes, this has been a layoff unlike any other. Whats different is that this isnt even like an injury. Everyones had an injury, and been away from the circuit for five, six months. But this was a different feeling, he said.We werent on holidayfar from it for all the people who were confinedand we werent injured. It was a really complex situation to deal with. What also felt strange was the many new obligatory measures aimed at preventing the spread of COVIDsuch as not sitting down on a chair, using different balls than your opponent, and sliding on gloves to wipe down the net cord with disinfectant after the session. Hopefully we can quickly have some normal training conditions again, Mahut said. But you have to respect the rules ... Were already lucky enough to be back playing. The yearold Mahut won majors as a doubles player, but is probably best known for agonizingly losing to John Isner  in the fifth set at Wimbledon in , the longest match in history. They played for  hours,  minutes in a match featuring  consecutive holds of serve and a combined  aces. But even getting one ace against Barrere was a struggle. You dont lose the feeling with the racket, or very little, Mahut said. Whats really hard is serving, your feet are heavy. Well need to wait a while before reaching the highest level again. He hopes that will be at Roland Garros, a few hundred meters away in western Paris. The claycourt tournament was meant to start on May , then got postponed to Sept  because of the virus. My optimistic side tells me that we will play at Roland Garros, Mahut said. But my more realistic side tells me it could be a very complicated season with no play at all. There have been myriad opinions as to when tennis can resume, even without fans. Whats for sure is that we cant start playing again if theres a risk of contamination, Mahut said. Is playing without fans an option? I really dont know. I dont think its the right time to get into a debate over who is right and wrong. Wearing a blue face mask, Dr. Bernard Montalvan supervised Mahut and Barrere. He is helping ease French tennis players back into training, with Mahut and Barrere expected to be tested shortly for the virus. But Montalvan thinks tennis may have to wait for a vaccine before fully returning to normal. I cant say when the vaccine will be ready, probably not for a long time, he said. Well see what the directives are, but I imagine professional tennis will resume before a vaccine is validated. AP Via Xinhua