US antiscience attitude hurting its fight against the pandemic
2020-05-08 07:05
Nurses work at a drivethru testing site for the coronavirus disease at North Shore University Hospital in Manhasset, New York, May , . PhotoAgencies    It was shocking to hear the US president imply that disinfectant injections could be used to treat COVID patients. That was two weeks ago. He shocked people again on Tuesday, by not wearing a face mask and ignoring social distancing norms during a visit to Honeywells mask factory in Arizona despite a sign saying that observing both rules was mandatory. But most shocking for me of late were the many abusive comments against Bill Gates on my Twitter account after I posted a video clip of the Microsoft cofounder and philanthropist. In the video, Gates is responding to a question from CNNs Fareed Zakaria on the US administration lacking the cooperative spirit when it comes to jointly fighting the novel coronavirus pandemic with China. Gates described the US blame game visvis China as a distraction. He said China did a lot of things right at the beginning of the outbreak. But its sad, he said, that the US, which people expected to do well, did a particularly poor job of fighting the pandemic. However, Gates reiterated that this is not the time to talk about that, its time to talk about science and the fact were in this together. The second video drew more than half a million viewers in less than  hours, reflecting the popularity of Gates. The last time I heard Gates speaking in person was at the United Nations Climate Change Conference in Madrid, Spain, in December. His views on climate change and global public health have been widely applauded. His commitment to developing a malaria vaccine and eradicating polio, too, has been praised, especially by people in the developing world. Last week, the Bill  Melinda Gates Foundation announced that it would focus its total attention on containing the pandemic, and it is investing and donating money to develop a COVID vaccine. The vicious attack against such a great cause, mostly by Gates fellow Americans, is beyond belief. On my Twitter account, many have accused Gates of promoting eugenics, depopulation, vaccine profiteering while some have called him a traitor, seemingly because he praised Chinas effective containment measures while lamenting the US poor response. That many Americans nurse an eternal hatred toward Gates is obvious. For example, during a recent rally in Austin, Texas, against the stayathome orders, hundreds of protesters, led by farright radio host Alex Jones, demanded that businesses be reopened and shouted arrest Bill Gates slogans. Gates is not the antilockdown protesters only target. They have also targeted Anthony Fauci, director of the US National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases and an adviser to every US president since Ronald Reagan, in Texas and other places. A member of the White House Coronavirus Task Force, Fauci is regarded as the most authoritative voice in the US in the fight against COVID. Both Fauci and Gates have advised caution in reopening businesses and factories, in contrast to the US presidents call to reopen the economy. Gates has also criticized the US administrations decision to halt funding to the World Health Organization. The attacks on Gates and Fauci come at a time when the numbers of COVID cases and deaths in the US have exceeded . million and ,as of Thursday, the highest in the world. The US boasts some great scientists and public health institutions, but their expertise has sadly not been welcomed by some, largely due to the nasty domestic election year politics. Juan Cole, a professor of history at the University of Michigan, said that when people let their ideologies overrule reason, they are digging their own graves. In an April  article, Cole argued that the US antiscience and antiintellectual attitude is forcing it toward a coronavirus Pearl Harbor. This should be a wakeup call for Washington in its tough fight against the pandemic. The author is chief of China Daily EU Bureau based in Brussels.