Tokyo Games fate hangs in the balance
2020-04-29 10:41
A passerby wearing a protective face mask, due to an outbreak of the coronavirus disease COVID, walks past next to a countdown clock showing the adjusted days and time for the start of the postponed Tokyo Olympic Games which have been set to begin on July , , in Tokyo April , . PhotoAgencies    Event likely to be canceled if virus not under control by next year, says official The postponed Tokyo  Olympics will be canceled if the novel coronavirus pandemic cannot be brought under control by next year, said Yoshiro Mori, the organizing committees president. With the worldwide infection rate climbing and experts suggesting a vaccine is still a long way off, questions are being asked about whether the huge setpiece event might need to be delayed further. No. In that case, the Olympics will be scrapped, Mori said, but added that the Olympics will be held next summer if the virus is successfully contained. Tokyo  spokesman Masa Takaya emphasized that organizers were focusing on next year as the new dates have been set and our mission is to deliver the Games next year. On Tuesday,  new cases were reported in Japan, taking the total number to ,. Meanwhile, the jobless rate in March rose to . percent, its highest in a year. Atsushi Takeda, the chief economist at Itochu Research Institute, said the employment situation is expected to worsen further in April and now is still the start of a deterioration. Elsewhere in Asia, Singapore on Tuesday confirmed  more infections, the smallest daily rise in almost two weeks, taking the citystates tally of cases to ,. Most of the new cases are migrant workers living in dormitories. In Turkey, President Recep Tayyip Erdogan on Monday declared three days of lockdown in  provinces starting on May , as infections in Turkey exceeded ,. Erdogan also said that the government was preparing a comprehensive program aimed at bringing life back to normal in the country, and its details would be shared with the public soon. The countrys first lockdown was imposed over April , followed by the second over April , and the latest one over April . Turkey on Monday recorded , more cases and  more deaths, taking infections to , and deaths to ,. In Australia, the state of New South Wales said on Tuesday that it would relax some restrictions on movement, as beaches reopened amid hope that a policy of widespread medical testing would help sustain a decline in new cases. Bondi Beach and two neighboring beaches in Sydney were reopened to local residents on Tuesday after being closed a month ago due to large crowds breaking social distancing rules. The state also said it would let up to two adults visit another persons home from Friday, relaxing a stayathome policy and ban on nonessential movement. Australia recorded just one new case from an unknown source in the latest hour period, suggesting community transmission had almost stopped, Health Minister Greg Hunt said. Gradual easing In Africa, Nigeria on Monday announced an immediate lockdown of northern Kano state, one of the states hit the hardest by COVID, while replacing a series of measures in some other states. President Muhammadu Buhari announced a phased and gradual easing of lockdown measures starting from May  in the Federal Capital Territory and states of Lagos and Ogun, so as to allow the restoration of some economic and business activities in certain sectors. However, he said the easing measures would not apply to Kano, as in the state and indeed many other states that are recording new cases, preliminary findings show these cases are mostly from interstate travel and emerging community transmission. A total of , cases had been reported in Nigeria as of Monday. Meanwhile, the death toll on the African continent stood at , as the number of infections reached , on Monday. Wang Xu in Tokyo, Xinhua and agencies contributed to this story.