Canadas COVID spread slows down due to effective health measures, Trudeau says
2020-04-29 09:41
Healthcare workers wave to thank people for taking part in a cars parade outside the Eatonville Care Center in Toronto, Canada, on April , . PhotoXinhua    OTTAWA  Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau said on Tuesday that the countrys public health measures are working to slow the spread of COVID. The measures we have taken so far are working. In fact, in many parts of the country, the curve has flattened. But we are not out of the woods yet, Trudeau said at his daily press conference in Ottawa. Trudeau also warned that easing restrictions too fast could wipe out the progress made to date. We are in the middle of the most serious public health emergency Canada has ever seen, and if we lift measures too quickly, we could lose the progress weve made, he said. Canadas chief public health officer Theresa Tam said that there is some positive pandemic news in the countrys new modelling data which was released on Tuesday. The new modelling shows that while the number of new cases was doubling every three days previously, it is now doubling every  days. It predicts between , and , cases by May , and between , and , deaths by that date. As of Tuesday afternoon, there were , confirmed cases of COVID in Canada while , people have died of the disease. The Trudeau government released its first COVID modelling on April . The projections included a number of scenarios and longterm forecasts, including a death toll of between , and , over the course of the pandemic even with ongoing physical distancing and other disease control measures. Tam warned that public health measures will need to remain in place until there is a high level of immunity or a vaccine to avoid future epidemic waves, saying that Canadians must continue physical distancing, contact tracing and quarantine measures. The new modelling shows that senior Canadians and males are at a greater risk of severe outcomes from contracting COVID. Nearly  percent of all deaths are linked to longterm care facilities and seniors homes.