Wuhans recovery brings hope to the world
2020-04-28 16:26
The declaration of the Chinese city of Wuhan as free of COVID is welcome news to every country currently battling the disease. At a time when nearly twothirds of humanity lives under some form of lockdown, the Wuhan experience captures the ultimate aspiration for billions of people in over  countries and territories currently under the spell of the virus.As the initial epicenter of the outbreak, the city was hit hard by the disease. Infections rose to thousands per day. But a decision by the Chinese government to put the city under a lockdown that ran for  weeks is credited with suppressing the spread of the virus within Wuhan and other parts of China.The citys  million residents can now breathe a sigh of relief after what has been characterized by the World Health Organization as the most ambitious, agile and aggressive disease containment effort in history.Although Chinese authorities remain guarded as the last Covid patient leaves treatment, the development in Wuhan casts a ray of hope for many cities, municipalities and villages.The first lesson the world can learn from China is it took resolute leadership to execute the most comprehensive response witnessed anywhere in the world. Leadership was also demonstrated in the targeted deployment of resources, including the building of hospitals in record time and mobilizing a huge workforce to deal with the pandemic.Secondly, China was committed to a painstaking emphasis on scientific information and expert advice on epidemic control. Prioritizing science, including sequencing the genome of the virus, enabled China to get deeper understanding of the disease. This also gave the whole world a head start in key areas such as vaccine development.Also instrumental in Chinas triumph was a disciplined population that elevated communal good above individual benefit. The people of Wuhan endured extreme conditions by staying indoors for  weeks. Yet they also understood weathering the lockdown was more beneficial compared to a life of disease and misery. This action was critical in cutting down community infections and lessening the burden on the citys healthcare system.Guided by Covid incidence data, the government of Kenya has also restricted entry and exit into five counties, namely Nairobi, Mombasa, Kilifi, Mandera and Kwale. The country has also imposed a national daily curfew, restricting movements between  pm and  am.With  Covid positive cases as at April , the quarantine push is primed to curtail community spread of the virus and buy the state some time to better confront the disease.It is imperative that Kenyans observe these additional measures, as a fullblown outbreak would easily outstrip our capacity to cope. Even seemingly advanced economies like France, the United Kingdom and the United States have grossly faltered in their Covid responses.The world is currently in dire need of drugs and medical equipment to confront the pandemic. Governments are struggling to acquire ventilators, personal protective gear as well as testing kits for the disease. Production has failed to match demand, which continues to soar with each passing hour. Being a veritable industrial city and transportation hub of global repute, declaring Wuhan COVID free could add some resources for the production and distribution of these essential commodities.Beyond medical products, Wuhan could also bolster production of other critical products whose supply has been cut by the disease. Kenya has made special arrangement with source markets, including China, to allow cargo vessels and planes to enter the country and hoist supply of a number of products needed by the population in the wake of restricted socioeconomic engagements. The latest developments in Wuhan therefore enliven hopes for a better future on this front, too.Finally, this latest development in Wuhan is a strong indicator that with the concerted effort of governments and populations, COVID can be brought under control. Every world capital anxiously looks forward to its Wuhan moment!The writer is a Ph.D student in international relations at Central China Normal University.