UK lockdown exit will be new normal
2020-04-27 11:11
Britains Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab speaks during the weekly question time debate at the Parliament, during the hybrid parliament session amid the COVID outbreak, in London, Britain, April , . PhotoAgencies    United Kingdom Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab has said the nations exit strategy from the novel coronavirus lockdown will be like a new normal and confirmed Prime Minister Boris Johnson will return on Monday. Speaking on Sky News Sophy Ridge on Sunday program, Raab rejected fresh calls from senior Conservatives for restrictions to be eased and said the outbreak was at a delicate and dangerous stage. We need to make sure that the next steps are surefooted, which is why we are proceeding very cautiously and we are sticking to the scientific advice with the socialdistancing measures at this time, whilst doing all the homework to make sure that we are prepared in due course for the next phase. He added Weve set out the five tests for what the next transitional phase would look like. It wont be just going back, it would be a new normal if you likewith social distancing measures adapted to areas which are currently closed off. According to reports, people entering the UK could be forced into home quarantine for two weeks under plans for the second phase of the governments response to the pandemic. The move follows growing pressure for tighter border controls amid the crisis and would include UK citizens returning from abroad. Speaking at the UK daily news briefing, Environment Secretary George Eustice said there are encouraging signs of progress in the battle against the novel coronavirus. But before its safe to adjust any lockdown rules, the governments five tests must be met, he added, confirming they include making sure the NHS can cope, that daily deaths continue falling consistently, that the infection rate is decreasing and operation challenges are met, and that there no risk of a second peak. Also at the briefing, Medical Director of NHS England Stephen Powis said there is now a very definite trend in reduced hospitalizations. He said data shows that the hard work everybody in the country has been doing is paying off. It came as the number of people confirmed to have died with COVID in hospitals in the UK reached ,, with another  deaths announced on Sunday. Speaking earlier, on the BBCs Andrew Marr Show, Raab reiterated the UK government was on track to reach , daily tests by the end of April. He said We have certainly got to get the daily testing up to hundreds of thousands. That, along with tracking and tracing, will give us more flexibility to open up measures, open up access. That, along with vaccine and therapeutics will be the mediumlongterm way to fight this virus. The UK military is to begin testing essential workers for novel coronavirus in mobile units that will operate in hard to reach areas, the Guardian reported. As many as  new mobile facilities will travel to care homes, police and fire stations, prisons and social welfare centers. Raab said Johnson was raring to go after recovering from a COVID infection that hospitalized him. The Sunday Telegraph reported that the prime minister, who studied classics at Oxford University, had quoted the Roman statesman and orator Cicero when speaking to advisors about the countrys lockdown strategy. The health of the nation should be supreme, he is reported to have saidor salus populi suprema lex estointerpreted by some as suggesting that Johnson is against any easing of restrictions.