EU eyes war chest for recovery
2020-04-25 16:00
European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen speaks during a news conference after a video conferenced EU summit with European heads of state to discuss measures related to the coronavirus disease COVID, in Brussels, Belgium April , . PhotoAgencies    Fund topping  trillion sought, but leaders split on formula for revival European Union leaders agreed on Thursday to work toward building an emergency fund of about  trillion euros . trillion to help tackle the impact of the COVID pandemic and to prop up the blocs ravaged economies, but deep differences remain in how to achieve these goals. At a video summit on Thursday, leaders of the member bloc agreed that a recovery fund is needed and urgent, European Council President Charles Michel said in his conclusions on the meeting. But no specific amount was unveiled. French President Emmanuel Macron said following the summit that no consensus is reached today, but it is an answer that we will have to provide. I believe that our Europe has no future if we cannot provide this answer, he said. If we let part of Europe fall, all of Europe will fall with it. In previous video summits on the pandemic, one of the sticking points was the socalled European recovery bond promoted by Italy and seven other eurozone states, but not favored by others. Italy wanted the bond to lift member states out of a recession and increase spending on healthcare. The EU video summit, the fourth of its kind, came as ,, Europeans have contracted the coronavirus and over , of them have died as of Thursday, according to the latest data from the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control. World leaders pledged on Friday to accelerate work on tests, drugs and vaccines against COVID and to share them around the globe, but the United States did not take part in the launch of the World Health Organization initiative. Macron, German Chancellor Angela Merkel and South African President Cyril Ramaphosa were among those who joined a video conference to launch what the WHO had billed as a landmark collaboration to fight the pandemic. The aim is to speed development of safe and effective drugs, tests and vaccines to prevent, diagnose and treat COVID, the lung disease caused be the novel coronavirusand ensure equal access to treatments for rich and poor. Key sign in Italy The Italian region of Lombardy, the part of the country hardest hit by the outbreak, began antibody testing on Thursday as part of a strategy to set the table for the gradual reopening of its economy. The serological tests will help identify people who have the coronavirus antibodies but are no longer infected, a sign that an individual has a natural or developed immunity to the virus. Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte said the government would start loosening the terms of the national lockdown starting on May , and he is expected to unveil the details of eased restrictions in the coming days. The daily number of patients who recovered on Thursday surpassed those for new infections for the first time in Italy since the pandemic began in February. There were , new coronavirus infections and , additional recoveries compared with Wednesday. The country had reported , cases and , deaths as of Thursday. German Chancellor Angela Merkel called on Thursday for international cooperation on the development of a vaccine for the new coronavirus. Speaking to parliament in a session where lawmakers sat at a careful distance from one another in line with the countrys socialdistancing regulations, Merkel said German scientists were busily researching the virus at home, but that international cooperation against the virus is extremely important. On Friday, Spain said the number of daily coronavirusrelated fatalities fell to its lowest level in more than a month, with  deaths on Thursday. Meanwhile, British Health Minister Matt Hancock said the United Kingdom will keep lockdown measures in place until it is safe to ease restrictions despite the economic costs of the rules. Earle Gale in London, Xinhua and agencies contributed to this story.