US makes belated effort to block UN resolution on equal access to COVID supplies media
2020-04-22 19:57
Small bottles labeled with a Vaccine COVID sticker and a medical syringe are seen in this illustration taken taken April , . PhotoAgencies    UNITED NATIONS  The US has recently attempted to block a UN resolution on equal access to COVID supplies only to find that the document was already adopted under a temperary procedure, media reports said Tuesday. The resolution was adopted by consensus on Monday by the member United Nations General Assembly. Its adoption was made known on Tuesday. According to the Agence FrancePresse, the United States failed to block the resolution as its objection came late after a socalled period of silence expired on Monday. Under normal circumstances, the UN General Assembly adopts resolutions by consensus or majority votes through physical meetings. However, due to the COVID pandemic, it has set up a temporary decisionmaking procedure, which allows its member states to veto any text of a proposed resolution during the period of silence. In its report, the AFP quoted diplomats as saying that the United States did not voice objections before Mondays deadline, but did so just afterward. The adopted resolution requests the UN secretarygeneral to help promote and ensure access to and distribution of preventive tools, laboratory testing, reagents and supporting materials, essential medical supplies, new diagnostics, drugs, and future COVID vaccines, with a view to making them available to all those in need, particularly in developing countries. It calls on member states and other relevant stakeholders to immediately take steps to prevent speculation on and undue stockpiling of essential medicines, vaccines, personal protective equipment and medical equipment that is required to effectively address COVID. During a virtual news briefing on Monday, Stephane Dujarric, spokesman of UN SecretaryGeneral Antonio Guterres, said the secretarygeneral wants a vaccine for COVID to be available to all people around the world. We want to make sure that the vaccine does not exacerbate the issues of inequality when it actually arrives and that it is shared for the benefit of all, Dujarric said.