Unity and cooperation are the international communitys most potent weapon to overcome the pandemic
2020-04-22 17:38
President Xi Jinping attended the Extraordinary G Virtual Leaders Summit and gave a speech titled Working Together to Defeat the COVID Outbreak. PhotoXinhua    I.Viruses do not respect borders, nor do epidemics discriminate between races. Humanity is a community with a shared future. Only by cooperating and responding together can the international community overcome this pandemic. I have been saying that humanity is a community with a shared future. To overcome an epidemic affecting the safety of people of all countries, unity and cooperation are our most potent weapon. The Bill  Melinda Gates Foundation was quick to join the global response to the COVID outbreak and has played an active role. I support cooperation between the Bill  Melinda Gates Foundation and relevant Chinese institutions. I also hope the international community can strengthen its cooperative endeavors to safeguard the health and wellbeing of humanity. Letter of reply to Bill Gates, February ,  Public health security is a common challenge facing humanity, and it calls for a collective response from all countries. As a responsible major country, China will continue to communicate effectively with the WHO, share disease prevention and control experiences with relevant countries, enhance international cooperation on the RD of antiviral medicines and vaccines, and provide as much assistance as it can to countries and regions where the virus is spreading. Speech at a meeting to coordinate efforts to curb the COVID outbreak and promote economic and social development, February ,  The COVID pandemic has again shown that humanity is a community with a shared future. In this era of economic globalization, this will not be the last such major emergency, as various traditional and nontraditional security threats pose new tests. The international community must realize that as we are a community with a shared future, we must help one another, join hands to tackle risks and challenges, and build a better global home. Phone call with UN SecretaryGeneral Antnio Guterres, March ,  Humanity is a community with a shared future, and only unity and cooperation will allow us to respond to global risks and challenges. China, Italy, and the rest of the international community must join forces if we are to overcome current difficulties, achieve victory over the epidemic at an early stage, and protect the people of our two countries and the world. Message of sympathy and support to Italian President Sergio Mattarella regarding the COVID outbreak in Italy, March  Recently, the virus has spread to many countries around the world. Facts once again show that humanity is a community with a shared future. All countries must unite and cooperate to mount a collective response. Based on the vision of a global community with a shared future, China stands ready to work with other countries to strengthen international cooperation on fighting the pandemic, in order to respond collectively to common threats and challenges and safeguard global public health security. Phone call with Egyptian President Abdel Fattah elSisi, March ,  Viruses do not respect borders, nor do epidemics discriminate between races. In responding to this global public health crisis, there is all the more urgency and importance to building a global community with a shared future. Only by cooperating and responding together can the international community overcome the pandemic and protect the common home of humankind. China stands ready to work with all the countries of the world, including Kazakhstan, to strengthen the international fight against the pandemic and jointly safeguard global public health security. Phone call with Kazakh President KassymJomart Tokayev, March ,  Viruses respect no borders and pose a common challenge facing all humanity. No country stands apart or is exempt. In the fight against the pandemic, China and Germany, and indeed China and Europe, have demonstrated the strength of unity and cooperation and played a positive role. Phone call with German Chancellor Angela Merkel, March ,  The COVID pandemic once again shows that humanity is a community with a shared future. The international community should help one another and pull together. We are willing to work with the WHO and all countries to contribute to safeguarding global public health security. Letter of reply to DirectorGeneral of the World Health Organization Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, March ,  Epidemics do not respect borders, nor do they discriminate between races. They are a common enemy of humanity. The international community must respond together if it is to win this battle. Through the common efforts of all parties, we arrived at many points of agreement during the Extraordinary G Virtual Leaders Summit on COVID yesterday and achieved positive results. I hope all parties will strengthen coordination and cooperation and put into effect what was achieved at the summit, so as to provide strong momentum for enhancing international cooperation on fighting the pandemic and stabilizing the global economy. Phone call with President of the United States of America Donald Trump, March ,  This pandemic has again proved the importance and urgency of building a global community with a shared future. The Extraordinary G Virtual Leaders Summit on COVID sent out a positive signal of unity in the response to fighting the COVID epidemic and safeguarding the stability of the global economy. China will continue to work with the international community, including Laos, to completely defeat this pandemic as quickly as possible. Phone call with General Secretary of the Central Committee of the Lao Peoples Revolutionary Party and President Bounnhang Vorachith, April ,