Sports fans nervous about opendoor restart
2020-04-22 09:14
Golden State Warriors guard Andrew Wiggins  shoots against LA Clippers center Ivica Zubac  in the second half at Chase Center inSan Francisco, California, USA, on March , . PhotoAgencies    US poll shows public could stay away if action resumed without vaccine With the distinct possibility of pro sports resuming in empty venues, a recent poll suggests a majority of US fans wouldnt feel safe attending games anyway without a COVID vaccine. According to the Seton Hall Sports Poll,  percent of Americans said they would not feel safe attending games without a vaccine, though the number dropped to  percent among people who identified themselves as sports fans. Nearly half the respondents in the poll, which had a margin of error of plus or minus . percentage points, said they either didnt follow sports closely or didnt follow sports at all. So even if fans are allowed back in venues, many may not come. And the financial losses in such a scenario will be significant without the revenue that comes from tickets, concessions and merchandise, among other thingseven if money is flowing from lucrative media rights deals. If the NBA and NHL cancel the rest of their seasons and Major League Baseball and Major League Soccer play only half their regular schedules, the losses in fanrelated revenue could reach  billion, according to Patrick Rishe, director of the sports business program at Washington University in St Louis. Those losses that I mentioned, both in ticket revenue and game dayrelated spending at the venues on food, beverage, parking, merchandise, you name it, thats money thats gone, Rishe said. Even if money on tickets is credited to next season, its still an opportunity lost. So its pretty sizable. David Carter, a professor in the sports business school at Southern California, said there is a difference between a sports fan and a sports consumer. The latter is more likely to return whenever fans are allowed into venues. I cant imagine that the sports consumers, or you might call them the committed fans or the hardcore fans, theyre not going to stay away for a year, Carter said. Theyre champing at the bit right now. Baseballs TV deal averages about . billion annually and runs through next year, and the NBA is roughly halfway through a nineyear deal that pays about . billion each year. The NHLs rights deal is just  billion total for  yearsan average of  million per season. Carter wondered if owners and league officials are weighing TV money that comes with resuming play against the lost revenue of empty stadiums and arenas. Right now, are the media dollars at permanent risk or are they just at risk of being deferred? Carter asked. And I would argue that because these teams and leagues are working with their media partners as that, as partners, its more likely that theyll come up with a workaround that might not be ideal, but might be better than the optics of having to move forward with fans in the building and protecting the turnstile revenue that they would have otherwise made. College football is facing its own set of questions, including whether students will be allowed back on campuses and when. The sport is critical to nearly all athletic department budgets and officials are bracing for significant dips in revenue even if games are played. If public health officials say its safe to return large events, I dont think its realistic that everybody is going to feel good about coming to games, Baylor athletic director Mack Rhoades said. And then, because of the economy, people are going to be impacted and not everybody is going to be able to afford a ticket. Among other findings in the poll, most fans thought US pro sports leagues acted at the right time to suspend their seasons. The vast majority also agreed that the International Olympic Committee didnt move too quickly in postponing the Tokyo Games until . About  percent of respondents said the NFL shouldnt start in the fall, even with social distancing. And  percent said they would have the same interest in watching live sports on TV even if fans are not in the stands. AP VIA XINHUA