China takes key role in international vaccine development
2020-04-21 22:46
A lab assistant tests drugs at a pharmaceutical company in Harbin, capital of Heilongjiang province. PhotoXinhua    China is expected to make more contributions to global containment of COVID by developing vaccines through international cooperation, leading international public health experts said. Having effectively brought the epidemic under control, China can work to help strengthen global health systems and improve global preparedness for the next public health crisis, Seth Berkley, CEO of the Global Alliance for Vaccines and Immunizations, said at a seminar last week. China has done a remarkable job on COVID control. From my perspective, its been really extraordinary to see a country hit by a severe epidemic to respond so quickly, he said. China tried to slow this disease down, not just for China but for the world, and giving everybody time to become engaged. I share President Xis recognition of the importance of preparedness, including the importance of vaccine stockpiles, and obviously want to see increased cooperation globally. Richard Hatchett, CEO of Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations, said many Chinese companies and institutes are developing vaccines for COVID with government support, and some are under clinical trials already. But with reduced COVID cases in China due to its containment, domestic vaccine developers may need international collaboration so further clinical trials can be conducted in other countries, he said, adding some Chinese companies have shown interest in international collaboration in developing vaccines for the disease. Berkley said the organization will continue to work with China in the development of vaccines to contribute to containment of the pandemic globally. We want to continue to work on bringing Chinese science and vaccine manufacturers to the world, trying to make sure the quality is there and that China can work through the thicket of international regulations to have prequalified products is going to be critical, he said. Yinuo Li, director of the Gates Foundation China, said vaccines will play a key role in the containment of the COVID pandemic globally, and international cooperation will be key in successful research and development of such vaccines. China has worldclass vaccine research and development teams, and vaccine manufacturing and public health system building in China has made great progress over the past decades, she said. We will continue to support China in the research, development and manufacturing of vaccines, and help global supply of highquality and lowcost vaccines made in China.