IMF sees Chinas growth rebounding in
2020-04-15 02:58
File photo Shanghais city view. PhotoIC    Chinas economy will likely grow at . percent this year and rebound strongly to . percent in , the International Monetary Fund predicted Tuesday, as it said the COVID would precipitate global growth into the deepest recession since s but a recovery of . percent is expected if the pandemic fades. Global growth is projected at . percent in , an outcome far worse than during the  global financial crisis, the IMF said in World Economic Outlook released Tuesday. It added that there was extreme uncertainty, and the situation could get much worse. The Great Lockdown, as the IMF called the global downturn, is the worst since the s Great Depression. The growth forecast is marked down by more than  percentage points relative to IMFs projections in October and January, which is an extraordinary revision over such a short period of time, according to the IMF report. The report was released during the annual spring meetings of the IMF and World Bank that are taking place virtually April  through April . The IMF predicted a partial rebound in , with the global economy growing at . percent. This recovery in  is only partial as the level of economic activity is projected to remain below the level we had projected for , before the virus hit, Gita Gopinath, the IMFs chief economist, told reporters via a video link. The economy of the United States, which has the largest numbers of both infections and deaths of the novel coronavirus, is projected to contract by . percent this year, and is poised to bounce back to . percent next year, the IMF said in its report. Unlike the US and other major economies, Asia is likely to be the only region with a positive growth rate in , though, averaging at  percent, the growth is more than  percentage points below its average in the previous decade, the IMF said. The member lender institution forecast a subdued . percent of growth for China for the whole of , even the country experiences a sharp rebound in the remainder of the year with sizable fiscal support. It was a sharp reduction from  percent growth predicted in the IMFs January forecast. India is another country expected to be spared from recession in  with a projected growth rate of . percent. The IMF said that indicators in China, such as industrial production, retail sales, and fixed asset investment, suggest that the contraction in economic activity in the first quarter could have been about  percent year over year. But the worlds secondlargest economy is expected to lead the economic recovery in the region. The IMF predicted Chinas growth to bounce back next year with . percent, a rarity for a decade. The last time the Asian country posted a similar growth rate was in . The rebound in  depends critically on the pandemic fading in the second half of , allowing containment efforts to be gradually scaled back and restoring consumer and investor confidence, according to the IMF. Amid further containment of the COVID, China is powering ahead in returning to work and resuming business and production. About . percent of Chinas manufacturing enterprises have reportedly resumed work, and the purchasing managers index for Chinas manufacturing sector rose to  in March from . in February, the Xinhua News Agency reported on April . There are many variables at play during a recovery, the IMF said. For example, if a therapy or a vaccine is found earlier than expected, social distancing measures can be removed and the rebound may occur faster than anticipated. Still, the IMF cautioned the recovery of the global economy could be weaker than expected after the spread of the virus has slowed for a host of other reasons. These include lingering uncertainty about contagion, confidence failing to improve, and establishment closures and structural shifts in firm and household behavior, leading to more lasting supply chain disruptions and weakness in aggregate demand.