Cambodia receives new batch of  mln doses of Chinas Sinovac COVID vaccine
2021-09-24 17:10
A staff member transports Chinas Sinovac COVID vaccines at the Phnom Penh International Airport in Phnom Penh, Cambodia, July , . PhotoXinhua    PHNOM PENH  Cambodia on Friday received a new batch of  million doses of Chinas Sinovac COVID vaccine. A flight carrying the vaccine, purchased from Chinese biopharmaceutical firm Sinovac Biotech, landed at the Phnom Penh International Airport shortly before  am local time, said Ministry of Health MoH Secretary of State Yok Sambath. This new batch will be used to inoculate our young children aged from six to under  years, she told reporters. To date, Cambodia has received a total of . million doses of COVID vaccines from friendly countries and the World Health Organization WHOs COVAX Facility, of which . million doses, or . percent, are from China, she said. The Southeast Asian nation launched a COVID vaccination drive in February. As of Sept , the kingdom has administered at least one dose of COVID vaccines to . million people, or  percent of its million population, the MoH said. Of them, . million, or  percent, have been fully vaccinated with both required shots, and , people, or . percent, have received a booster dose, it added. WHO representative to Cambodia Li Ailan told Xinhua earlier this week that Cambodia is one of the most successful countries in the WHO Western Pacific Region in securing adequate vaccines and vaccinating its targeted population. WHO is very pleased that a combination of the Cambodian governments strong leadership, active public participation, and effective partnerships makes Cambodias vaccine rollout a great success, she said. Cambodia on Friday reported a daily record of  new COVID cases, lifting the national total caseload to ,, the MoH said, adding that  more fatalities have been registered, taking the overall death toll to ,. An additional  patients have recovered, raising the total number of recoveries to ,, the MoH said.