Timeline of China releasing information on COVID and advancing international cooperation
2020-04-06 21:32
Medical workers from Zhongnan Hospital of Wuhan University pose for a group photo in Wuhan Livingroom makeshift hospital in Wuhan, Central Chinas Hubei province, March , .PhotoXinhua    The novel coronavirus disease COVID epidemic is a major public health emergency that has spread the fastest, caused the most extensive infections and been the hardest to contain since the founding of the Peoples Republic of China in . Under the strong leadership of the Communist Party of China CPC Central Committee with Comrade Xi Jinping as the core, China has taken the most comprehensive, the strictest and the most thorough prevention and control measures to battle the epidemic. In their tenacious fight against the coronavirus, . billion Chinese people have pulled together in tough times and paid a tremendous price and sacrificed a lot. With the joint efforts of the whole nation, the positive trend in preventing and controlling the epidemic in China has been constantly consolidated and expanded, and the restoration of normal production and everyday life has been quickened. The pandemic has recently been spreading rapidly across the world, posing a formidable challenge to global public health security. According to data from the World Health Organization WHO, COVID had affected more than  countries and regions with over . million confirmed cases by April , . Virus knows no national borders, and the epidemic distinguishes no races. Only with solidarity and by cooperation can the international community prevail over the pandemic and safeguard the common homeland of humanity. Upholding the vision of building a community with a shared future for humanity, China has been timely releasing information on COVID since the onset of the epidemic in an open, transparent and responsible manner, unreservedly sharing with the WHO and the international community its experience in epidemic response and medical treatment, and strengthening cooperation on scientific research. It has also provided assistance to all parties to the best of its ability. All these efforts have been applauded and widely recognized by the international community. Based on media reports and information from the National Health Commission, scientific research institutions and other departments, Xinhua News Agency sorted out the main facts China has taken in the global joint antivirus efforts to timely release epidemic information, share prevention and control experience, and advance international exchanges and cooperation on epidemic response. The following timeline was arranged in chronological order.