Foreign policy experts urge ChinaUS cooperation to fight COVID
2020-04-04 16:12
PhotoIC    LOS ANGELES  Over  bipartisan, former highranking government officials and experts from the United States released a joint statement Friday urging cooperation with China to combat COVID. No effort against the coronavirus  whether to save American lives at home or combat the disease abroad  will be successful without some degree of cooperation between the United States and China, the statement said. The statement, titled Saving Lives in America, China, and Around the World, was released by Asia Societys Center on USChina Relations and the st Century China Center at the School of Global Policy and Strategy GPS of the University of California San Diego. Chinas factories can make the protective gear and medicines needed to fight the virus its medical personnel can share their valuable clinical experience in treating it and its scientists can work with ours to develop the vaccine urgently needed to vanquish it, wrote the statement, which was supported by  former officials and experts. Former US Secretary of State Madeleine Albright, former National Security Advisor Susan Rice, and Joseph S. Nye, Harvard Universitys distinguished service professor, emeritus and former dean of Kennedy School of Government, are among the signatories. Moreover, they suggested the two countries work with others to share relevant scientific data, compare best medical practices, align efforts to step up production and distribution of medical supplies, and coordinate funds and clinical trials for vaccine and treatment research, testing, production, and distribution. However, the statement repeated unfounded allegations by some US politicians who accused China of mishandling the health crisis, despite the fact that Chinas quick and decisive response to stem the virus spread bought the world time and drew praise from the international community. Susan Shirk, chair of the st Century China Center and professor emeritus at the GPS of the UC San Diego, said this global health challenge required global solutions, which must involve coordination between the worlds two largest economies. We are going to need a massive international effort on multiple fronts to help developing countries deal with the epidemic, develop a vaccine, and then vaccinate billions of people. Other nations will be hesitant to act unless they are convinced the United States and China are on the same page, she said in a statement posted on the universitys website. A group of Chinese academics had previously called for cooperation between Beijing and Washington to beat COVID. Political bickering does nothing to contribute to the healthy development of SinoUS relations, nor will it help the people of the world to rationally and accurately understand and cope with the pandemic, said the group of  Chinese scholars in an open letter published on Thursday in the online news magazine, The Diplomat. Countries should be working together, not complaining, finger pointing, and blaming one another, they said, adding as two of the great countries on Earth, cooperation between China and the US could, and should, be used to bring a more positive outcome for all humankind. In response to the letter of Chinese scholars, Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesperson Hua Chunying said Friday that more rational, calm and positive voices are needed at the current stage of COVID. Only through solidarity and cooperation among the people of the world can we finally achieve the ultimate victory against the epidemic, Hua said.