Universities boosting fight against virus
2020-04-03 07:19
SHI YUCHINA DAILY    The novel coronavirus outbreak has forced many countries and cities to impose lockdowns and tens of millions of people to go into selfquarantine or isolation to maintain social distancing. The outbreak is yet another reminder that we are part of a global community that shares an uncertain future, and no one can manage to meet common challenges alone. The pandemic has caused worldwide disruption, particularly in the field of education. According to UNESCO, more than  countries have ordered nationwide closure of schools, affecting  percent of the worlds total enrolled students. But despite closing down their campuses, many universities have moved courses online, which is indeed unprecedented. Physical and spiritual shelter of intellectuals Since the establishment of the University of Bologna in , universities across the world have always been the physical and spiritual shelter for intellectuals. Some universities may have temporarily closed down before, but never on such a large scale. The pandemic is a great challenge for all of us, and all countries, universities and individuals ought to jointly meet it. China was the first country to be hit by the outbreak, and the first to announce the closure of schools. After detailed discussions, on Jan , Tsinghua University decided to start the spring semester courses onlineon schedule. On Feb , more than , Tsinghua students, faculty and nonteaching staff and alumni attended a special lecture on Tsinghua Universitys epidemic prevention work and the arrangement for the spring semester through a live broadcast. An audience of more than  million tuned in. As we face this unprecedented global challenge, it is time to reflect on what makes a university great. For one, great universities should proactively respond to the challenges of the times and fulfill their responsibility of serving society. The essence of education, especially university education, is to empower students with the gift of knowledge, and to safeguard their health and wellbeing. After the epidemic broke out, therefore, we Tsinghua University immediately worked out a campus safety plan under our emergency response framework. Teaching and learning should not stop University education is neither spontaneous nor sporadic. Rather, it is a welldesigned systematic program based on comprehensive planning. As such, online teaching and learning is not supplementary to inperson classes, so we try our best to ensure online courses have the same quality as inperson learning. On Feb , Tsinghua University resumed teaching for all courses via Rain Classroom and other platforms. Rain Classroom is Tsinghua Universitys independently designed online teaching app, which offers realtime interactions between teachers and students, and helps evaluate the results of online teaching. Teachers can use the app to conduct courseware preview and check students status before class. Through Rain Classroom, slides can be synchronized with WeChatthe most popular messaging and social media app in China. Students can take quizzes during class, and send their feedback and questions anonymously via the onscreen comments section. While observing the app, we noticed that, compared with inperson classes, the interactions between teachers and students have considerably improved online and students are more satisfied with the courses. Rich experiences have been accumulated from, and insights gained into, online education practices. For example, inclass interaction is very important not only for inperson classes but also for online teaching and learningno matter whether we adopt the Socratic method or Confucius method. The concept of community means a lot for universitiesfaculty and students gather, with a sense of collective identity and integrity, to share knowledge. Online teaching and learning with realtime interaction is an extension of universities community building work. Moreover, despite the physical distance, the quality of education can still be sustained and the university community reinforced. In addition to online courses, we also offer innovative modes of defending a thesis. By March , altogether  students doctoral candidates and  masters studentshad completed their thesis defense online, seven of those being international students from Canada, the Republic of Korea, Pakistan and the United States. Contributing to the epidemic prevention work Drawing on traditional strengths in academic research and innovation, universities can play an essential role in epidemicprevention work. Modern universities, characterized by academic research and innovation, have made indispensable contributions to the wellbeing of humankind. Thanks to its strength in science and technology, Tsinghua University swiftly initiated research projects on COVID, and has made substantial progress in basic medical and vaccine research, fast testing kits, and intelligent epidemic prevention systems and equipment. In fact, during his visit to Tsinghua University to inspect the School of Medicines research on the novel coronavirus on March ,President Xi Jinping emphasized that science and technology are the most powerful weapon in humanitys battle against diseases. Taking on social responsibilities In May , the Global Alliance of Universities on Climate was established at Tsinghua University with  universities from nine countries as founding members. The GAUC charter says that, in response to global challenges presented by climate change, worldleading universities shoulder an extremely important role. Likewise, we believe universities can also make indispensable contributions to the fight against the novel coronavirus outbreak. Over the past two months, we have maintained close contact with other university leaders and global partners, exchanging best practices and providing mutual support, and proactively taking on a wide array of social responsibilities. In the wake of the epidemic outbreak, Tsinghua University has opened a series of online programs to the public, including more than , MOOCs massive open online courses on XuetangX, Chinas first and largest MOOC platform initiated by the university. It has also created clone class courses to share online education resources with universities in Wuhan, capital of Hubei province and the epicenter of the outbreak in China, and other areas, including courses in English communication, engineering drawing and solid state physics. The clone classes are characterized by two identical classes, one in Tsinghua University and the other in a sister school, with exactly the same course content, materials and assignments taught by the same Tsinghua professor. From March  to , the university organized a largescale online career fair with  universities in Hubei and inviting  employers to participate in the fair. Time to collectively fight against outbreak Infectious diseases know no boundaries, and certainly have no nationalities. In the face of this common challenge for humanity, we should unite instead of dividing, be collaborative instead of combative, and have confidence in ourselves and in each other. Universities serve as the lighthouse of human civilization, imparting knowledge and propagating culture among the youths. We share a common objective, which is to make the world a better place. And at this critical moment, universities should help promote confidence, trust and unity among the people, and call for humanity to rise to its highest potential. Rest assured, despite the uncertainties and challenges that lie ahead, there remains hope for a brighter future. The author is president of Tsinghua University. The views dont necessarily reflect those of China Daily.