US market heads to weakest quarter since
2020-04-01 00:27
US stocks opened down Tuesday, but the modest decline was in sharp contrast to wild swings earlier this month. Nevertheless, the market is headed for the weakest quarter since the  financial crisis sparked by the collapse of the subprime mortgage market.Earlier this year, investors were optimistic as the US and China moved closer to a trade agreement. The US Federal Reserve held interest rates steady in anticipation of a strong economy.Then the coronavirus hit, sending the world economy into a tailspin as factories closed, unemployment rose and consumer spending fell.In early trading Tuesday the Dow Jones Industrial Average fell about . points, or . percent. The SP  lost . points, or . percent. The Nasdaq Composite slid . points, of . percent.On Monday, the Dow climbed . points, or . percent, led by an  percent jump in Johnson  Johnson after it announced a possible vaccine for the coronavirus. The SP  rose . points, or . percent.There are signs that Chinas economy is rebounding as production resumes after a near total shutdown due to the coronavirus outbreak, also called COVID.China has shown signs already that its economy may be picking back up, Lee Hardman, a currency analyst at MUFG Bank in London, told The Wall Street Journal. Its leading the way and showing that the same could be achieved in other major economies if the virus is kept under control. Equity markets have stabilized over the last week in response to the powerful policy actions from central banks and governments.The Morgan Stanley Capital Index, a measure of about  stocks in  developed nations worldwide, has dropped . percent in dollar terms since the start of , putting it on track for the worse quarter since December  following the collapse of the subprime mortgage market. The second quarter begins Wednesday.I think the market has established some type of bottom, Tom Lee, head of research at Fundstrat Global Advisors, told CNBC.Oil prices rallied Tuesday after hitting year lows on Monday. West Texas Intermediate crude, the gauge of US prices, rallied about . percent to . a barrel. Brent crude, the worldwide benchmark, rose . percent to about . a barrel. The price of oil is viewed as an indicator of future economic activity.