Chinas gains offer hope for the world
2020-03-28 10:45
An employee polishes bicycle rims at a production facility in Hangzhou, capital of Zhejiang province, on March , . Photo by Hu JianhuanFor China Daily    China has made a promising start to rebooting its economy and controlling the spread of COVID, according to a report from Imperial College London, providing hope for nations in lockdown due to the pandemic. There were no new domestic cases of the disease in China in the five days up to Monday, the day the study concluded. Only a few cases of local transmission have since been reported, most of whom had been infected by people coming to China. The progress is an indication that the social distancing measures enacted in China have led to the control of the outbreak in the country, according to the latest report from the World Health Organization Collaborating Centre for Infectious Disease Modelling at Imperial. At the peak of the outbreak in China in early February, there were between , and , new confirmed cases per day. Our analysis indicates that China has made a promising start in rebooting their economy whilst controlling the spread of COVID, said Caroline Walters, a research associate at Imperials Medical Research Council Centre for Global Infectious Disease Analysis, or MRC CGIDA. Imperial said that, initially, withincity movement and transmission were very strongly correlated in the provinces most affected by the epidemic. After investigating urban movement in Chinese cities following the lifting of certain restrictions, the researchers said disease transmission has not resumed for the time being. We observed that the relaxation of strict social distancing measures and resumption of economic activities, so far, has not resulted in frequent local transmission of COVID in China, said Fu Han, a researcher at the MRC CGIDA who coauthored the report. In January, China imposed strict social distancing in Wuhan, where the outbreak began, and followed up with measures in other provinces. At this difficult time, these results suggest that, after containment, a carefully managed and monitored relaxation of effective largescale lockdowns may be possible even before an effective vaccine is available, said Professor Christl Donnelly, who is associate director of the MRC CGIDA. The authors of the study said the analysis provides hope for countries in lockdown.