UK continues virus fight as prime minister falls ill
2020-03-28 02:20
UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson. PhotoAgencies    The United Kingdom vowed on Friday to continue its fight against the novel coronavirus, as the nations prime minister announced he too has the disease. Michael Gove, the governments minister for the Cabinet Office, hosted the countrys daily news briefing hours after leader Boris Johnson said he had fallen ill and was selfisolating in his official residence  Downing Street. Johnson usually hosts the daily briefings about the virus and the COVID respiratory disease it causes. Gove said the UK is seeing its number of infections double every three to four days. These figures are a powerful reminder of the need for all of us to act, he said. Strict social distancing measures have been put in place to restrict the spread of COVID. He said the government has also formed a partnership of businesses, research institutes, and universities that is working to increase the capacity to test frontline workers, so those who have the virus can be quickly removed from their workplace while those who are needlessly selfisolating who do not have it will be able to continue working. Simon Stephens, the head of the National Health Service NHS in England, said at the briefing there are currently , patients with the virus in hospital in the UK and that the NHS is creating an extra , beds for virus patients. Earlier, Johnson revealed he had developed a cough and a temperature during the preceding  hours. On the advice of the chief medical officer, I have taken a test, he said in a video message released on Twitter. That has come out positive, so I am working from home. Johnson said he would continue to lead the nations government and coordinate its response to the virus. The chief medical officer to whom he referred, Chris Whitty, also has symptoms and is selfisolating at home. Johnsons announcement followed the government saying the UK will contribute  million pounds  million toward work being undertaken by an international coalition of scientists seeking to develop a vaccine. The investment came as the UK announced the number of deaths in the UK attributable to the virus rose on Friday by , to . It was the first time more than  people had died of the virus in a single day. The bad news followed an uplifting and defiant display on Thursday evening in which people took to their balconies, open windows, rooftops and front porches to applaud and cheer NHS workers. The nations figurehead, Queen Elizabeth II, joined those praising NHS workers by issuing a statement on Instagram in which she said she was enormously thankful for the work they were doing, and the work of scientists, public servants, and the emergency services. Prince Charless staff also described his gratitude, after wellwishers sent him cards and messages of support following his declaration earlier this week that he too has been infected. The message said he had been enormously touched by the support. Also on Friday, the government urged prospective housebuyers not to consider moving home during the lockdown. The Independent newspaper quoted Housing Secretary Robert Jenrick as saying it was especially important to try and delay such moves, even if the parties are in legallybinding contracts. The Ministry of Housing, Communities and Local Government added Homebuyers and renters should, where possible, delay moving to a new house while measures are in place to fight coronavirus. Several mortgage lenders decided to support the call by postponing the processing of mortgage applications. Elsewhere in Europe, Italy confirmed  more virus deaths on Friday, taking its total to ,. And Spain also had a particularly bad  hours, with  new deaths announced on Friday. With Italy and Spain so hard hit by the virus, European Union leaders met via videolink on Thursday to discuss ways the bloc might mitigate anticipated economic damage. But they failed to find a consensus. The idea of directing funds toward the nations had been opposed in the past by the Netherlands, Germany, and Austria. Portugals prime minister, Antonio Costa, told reporters If we dont come together now, I dont know when we will. But, despite the lack of progress on Thursday, Eurozone finance ministers have been tasked with suggesting new ways in which the blocs richest nations might help those hardest hit by the virus. Those suggestions are due to be submitted in the next two weeks.