Chinese medical team honored in Tanzania
2021-09-24 10:11
Donated doses of a COVID vaccine from Chinas Sinovac Biotech, as well as syringes, await unloading at an international airport in Zanzibar, Tanzania, on July , . PhotoXinhua    The leader of Tanzanias Zanzibar archipelago on Tuesday honored  doctors from a Chinese medical team with medals in recognition of their outstanding work delivering healthcare services in the semiautonomous region. At a colorful ceremony at Zanzibars presidential palace, Hussein Ali Mwinyi, the president of the group of islands, presented the medals to the doctors at the end of their month stint. The president thanked China for dispatching medical teams to Zanzibar since , saying the Chinese medical teams have helped in strengthening the health system in Zanzibar, and saving the lives of hundreds of people. He also cited the  million Chinese contribution to the Abdulla Mzee Hospital in Pemba and the  million intensive care unit at the Mnazi Mmoja Hospital in Unguja. May I through this gathering and on behalf of all Zanzibaris express our sincere gratitude for the great work that the Chinese have been doing in Zanzibar since , he said. Mwinyi said the team also helped in the fight against the COVID pandemic, adding that China also donated vaccines to frontline healthcare workers and those working in the tourism industry. , surgeries a year Wang Yiming, leader of the Chinese medical team, said the doctors had examined , outpatients, , inpatients, performed , major surgeries and participated in , critical rescues during their oneyear term. Nassor Ahmed Mazrui, health minister of Zanzibar, said the  medical specialists worked at the Mnazi Mmoja and Abdulla Mzee hospitals. The Chinese doctors worked shoulder to shoulder with local doctors sharing their knowledge and skills, Mazrui told reporters. In the past  months, the Chinese doctors saved a number of critically ill patients, completed dozens of complicated surgeries and performed more than  new medical procedures in Zanzibar. They also had outreach clinics providing free medical consultation and medicine to elderly homes and remote villages, Mazrui said. He said the st Chinese medical team is expected to arrive in Zanzibar on Wednesday to replace the team that had completed its term. Zhang Zhisheng, Chinas consul general in Zanzibar, said the Chinese doctors often sacrificed their weekends to visit remote villages to help poor people who could hardly travel to the cities to receive treatment. They also helped to develop more than  new medical technologies for the hospitals apart from giving lectures and training courses in the islands public health facilities. Xinhua contributed to this story.