Beijing gives aid to  countries
2020-03-27 07:31
Medical supplies are carried from a plane as a flight arrives from China to Cambodia with supplies and doctors to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease COVID outbreak, at Phnom Penh International Airport in Cambodia, March , . PhotoAgencies    The Chinese government has provided aid to  countries and four international organizations to battle the novel coronavirus pneumonia outbreak and is planning further support, a senior official said on Thursday. Deng Boqing, vicechairman of the China International Development Cooperation Agency, said the  countries are in Asia, Europe, Africa, the Americas and the South Pacific. He spoke at a briefing held by the State Council Information Office, adding that the aid was in medical supplies and technical assistance. The supplies include test kits, face masks, protective clothing, goggles, forehead thermometers and ventilators, while the assistance is offered mainly by medical experts sent to other countries, Deng said. China has sent medical experts to Iran, Iraq, Italy, Serbia and Cambodia to help them fight the virus. It is Chinas responsibility to support the international community in tackling the outbreak, and such support helps lower the risk of the virus coming across the border to the nation, which is threatened by imported cases and sporadic local cases, Deng said. The outbreaks severity and a request for support from China are among the factors China considers when making aid plans, which are determined after discussion with recipient countries, he said. China has worked within its ability to provide the aid while ensuring that its domestic needs for medical resources are met in the first place, Deng said. Another important part of Chinas contribution to the global battle is sharing its experience. Zeng Yixin, deputy director of the National Health Commission, said the commission has compiled an uptodate version of diagnosis and treatment plans, as well as other technical documents, and shared them with  countries and more than  international and regional organizations. The methods and techniques China devised to control the disease are invaluable, Zeng said. The commission has also conducted indepth exchanges with the international community, he said, adding that it has held about  videoconferences on technical issues with over  countries and regions. On March , the commission and the World Health Organization held a videoconference to share Chinas experience with representatives from  countries and seven international organizations who attended. It was viewed by over , people online, Zeng said. China also is also among the countries working to develop vaccines against the novel coronavirus. Xu Nanping, viceminister of science and technology, said Chinas recombinant adenovirus vector vaccine entered clinical trials on March . Chinese firms also are working with counterparts in the United States, Germany and the United Kingdom to develop other types of vaccines for the novel coronavirus, Xu said. The best results come through joint research and the sharing of achievements, he said.