UN chief to G We are at war  and not winning
2020-03-27 06:36
United Nations SecretaryGeneral Antonio Guterres, left, with World Health Organization DirectorGeneral Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, talks at the WHO headquarters in Geneva about the global fight against the novel coronavirus pneumonia outbreak, Feb , .PhotoXinhua    In remarks to the G virtual summit on the COVID pandemic Thursday, United Nations SecretaryGeneral Antonio Guterres said, We are at war with a virus  and not winning it. Speaking from New York, Guterres noted that it took three months for the world to reach , confirmed cases of infection, and that the next , cases happened in just  days. The , mark took only another four days, and the , level came just one and a half days after that. This is exponential growth and only the tip of the iceberg, he said. This war needs a wartime plan to fight it, he said, adding that solidarity is essential among the G and with the developing world, including countries involved in armed conflict. The UN chief had appealed for a global ceasefire in a statement Monday. Guterres called on the G to suppress the transmission of the coronavirus as quickly as possible. That must be our common strategy, he said, and it requires a coordinated G response mechanism guided by the World Health Organization. He stressed that all countries must be able to combine systematic testing, tracing, quarantining and treatment with restrictions on movement and contact with the aim to suppress transmission of the novel coronavirus. He added that all countries must coordinate an exit strategy to suppress COVID until a vaccine becomes available. The UN chief called for massive support to increase the response capacity of developing countries. Guterres told the meeting that the UN system has a wellestablished supplychain network. We stand ready to place it at your disposal, he said. Guterres then underlined the importance of working together to minimize the social and economic impact. The G came of age in the  financial crisis, said Guterres. The challenges before us dwarf those of   what we face today is not a banking crisis, it is a human crisis. While the liquidity of the financial system must be assured, our emphasis must be on the human dimension. We need to concentrate on people, keeping households afloat and businesses solvent, able to protect jobs, he said, adding that it will require a global response reaching doubledigit percentages of the global economy. I welcome infusions of liquidity and social and economic support in developed countries  with direct transfer of resources to people and businesses, he said. But, a stimulus package to help developing countries with the same objectives also requires a massive investment. For that, Guterres said greater resources are needed from the International Monetary Fund and other international financial institutions, including a meaningful emission of special drawing rights, coordinated swaps between central banks and steps to alleviate debt, such as a waiver of interest payments. He also appealed for the waiving of sanctions that can undermine countries ability to respond to the pandemic. Guterres also called on all countries to work together to set the stage for a recovery that builds a more sustainable, inclusive and equitable economy, guided by the  Agenda for Sustainable Development. Let us do what it takes  urgently and together, he said.