New vaccine protects the previously infected
2021-09-24 09:59
Taxi driver Zheng Ruiwen front puts on a protective gown before setting off to transport COVID nucleic acid samples in Putian, Fujian province, on Sept , . Photo by ZHANG BINCHINA NEWS SERVICE    Chinese biotechnology company Clover Biopharmaceuticals said on Wednesday that a large trial shows its twodose COVID vaccine is  percent effective against the fastspreading Delta variant, which was first detected in India. The vaccine candidate is  percent effective against the Gamma variant first identified in Brazil, and  percent against the Mu variant first detected in Colombia, according to joint statement issued by the company and the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations, a nonprofit organization that funded the clinical trial. The vaccines overall efficacy rate against all strains in the study was  percent. It was also  percent effective in preventing severe cases and hospitalizations, and nearly  percent effective in preventing moderate to severe cases, the statement said. The vaccine is the first COVID vaccine to demonstrate significantly reduced risk of COVID disease in previously infected individuals, a growing and increasingly important population as SARSCoVthe novel coronavirus that causes the disease continues to spread globally, it said. The proteinbased vaccine uses protein fragments of the virus to trigger immune responses, and requires the use of an adjuvant to achieve desired protection. Clover Biopharmaceuticals, which is based in Chengdu, Sichuan province, said its adjuvant is supplied by the US company Dynavax. More than , adultssome of them elderlyin the Philippines, Brazil, Colombia, South Africa and Belgium were enrolled in mid and latestage clinical trials. They were either given two doses administered  days apart or a placebo. Like the inactivated vaccines widely deployed in China, the experimental vaccine can be stored at regular refrigerated temperatures of  to  C, making its transportation and distribution easier. The company said it plans to submit applications for conditional market approval to global regulatory authorities in the fourth quarter of the year and is aiming for a potential market launch by the end of the year. Clover Biopharmaceuticals is also a supplier to COVAX, an international initiative that distributes vaccines to low and middleincome countries. The company signed an advance purchase agreement with Gavi, one of the coleaders of COVAX, in late June to provide  million doses of its vaccine to the initiative by next year. However, the product has to first gain emergency use authorization from the World Health Organization, which is anticipated in the fourth quarter of this year, according to Gavi.