Europeans come under even tougher controls
2020-03-24 10:24
A man walks past a billboard picturing a woman wearing Italys national flag as a face mask in Naples on Sunday. The message reads All together, without fear.CARLO HERMANNAFP    European nations have adopted a raft of further measures to peg back the COVID virus, as Italy bans all domestic travel and Spain extends a state of emergency. Europe, now the epicenter of the novel coronavirus pandemic, reported ,  infections with , deaths as of Sunday, including the United Kingdom, according to the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control. Italy, which has been hit hardest in Europe, saw no sign that the spread of the virus was easing on Sunday, with the total number of confirmed cases at , and the number of fatalities at ,, according to the countrys health ministry. Meanwhile, Italys interior and health ministries issued on Sunday a joint ordinance banning all domestic travel. Beginning today, throughout the national territory it is forbidden for individuals to travel, whether by public or private transportation, to a municipality that is different from the one in which they find themselves in, said the ordinance. The sole exceptions provable work reasons or reasons of absolute health emergency, it said. The new measure will be in place until a new decree is issued. In Spain, the government sought to extend until April  a state of emergency that it has imposed to try to control Europes secondworst outbreak. The nationwide emergency imposed on March  and intended to last  days, bars people from all but essential outings. We are at war, Prime Minister Pedro Sanchez told a news briefing. Spain reported , cases of infections and , deaths as of Monday, according to the health authorities. In Germany, the country banned the assembly of more than two people, according to the countrys latest containment measures on Sunday. German citizens were advised to reduce contact with people outside their own household to the least, and keep a minimum distance of . meters from strangers. Also on Sunday, German Chancellor Angela Merkel decided to immediately quarantine herself at home and take tests over the next few days after she was informed that the doctor who gave her a pneumococcal vaccination was diagnosed with COVID. The number of confirmed cases in Germany has risen to , and  people have died from the disease, a tally by public health agency Robert Koch Institute showed on Monday. Separately, Greece announced a nationwide lockdown on Sunday as part of measures to curb the spread of the virus. The day lockdown became effective from Monday at  am local time. It must start on time, so it is not in vain ... We need bold and timely initiatives, said Greek Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis. In Russia, the number of people who have contracted the coronavirus has grown by  to , while  people have recovered, Russian Prime Minister Mikhail Mishustin said on Monday. In a related development, the Russian Federal Agency for Air Transport on Monday imposed restrictions on flights from Russia to all countries. Ren Qi in Moscow, Xinhua and agencies contributed to this story.