Pressure grows on UK to act
2020-03-24 10:15
A woman wearing a protective face mask and gloves in Westminster as the spread of the coronavirus disease COVID continues, in London, March , . PhotoAgencies    Life should not feel normal, Sturgeon warns Scots, as calls for lockdown rise The United Kingdoms death toll from the novel coronavirus reached  on Monday, an overnight increase of , as Prime Minister Boris Johnson came under increasing pressure to follow the lead of many European leaders and put the country into lockdown. Johnsons regular afternoon media briefing was delayed until later in the evening because of ongoing highlevel discussions about the countrys attempts to deal with the outbreak, as the death toll increased. Speaking earlier in the day, Scotlands First Minister Nicola Sturgeon adopted a direct approach, after a weekend that saw many people continuing to ignore advice about social distancing. I want to repeat what I said yesterday life shouldnt feel normal for you right now, she said. If it is, youre not doing the right things. She went on to say that shops providing anything other than essential items, such as food and medicine, should now close. A total of  people in Scotland have now died from the virus, and the countrys Chief Medical Officer Catherine Calderwood said each one probably represented around , further infections. We have  people currently in our intensive care units across Scotland who have coronavirus and each of them represents perhaps  to  other people that will have become infected in the course of their illness, she added. A warning of what might lie ahead for the UK came when a Ministry of Defence representative said Londons ExCel Arena exhibition venue could be taken over by the National Health Service as a makeshift field hospital. To assist NHS England to prepare for a number of scenarios ...military planners visited the ExCeL center ... to determine how the center might benefit the NHS response to the outbreak, a spokesperson told the London Evening Standard. Meanwhile in Westminster, Parliament began debating emergency powers legislation to help the government in its fight against the outbreak. After opposition complaints, the bill has been amended from a twoyear period to being on a sixmonth, renewable basis, and it contains what Health Secretary Matt Hancock called powers never seen before in peacetime, but proportionate to the threat we face. Under the legislation, officials would be able to shut airports and detain people on public health grounds, and immigration officials could put people in isolation. Elsewhere, the mayor of Bergamo, the Italian city at the epicenter of the countrys outbreak, has told Sky News he wants his daughters who are studying in England to return home as they will be safer there, because of the British governments handling of the crisis. I think that even if we are at the center of the epidemic, they are probably more secure here than in England, said Giorgio Gori. I dont understand why the government didnt decide in time to protect the citizens. Denmark, which so far has reported more than , coronavirus cases and  deaths, has extended its national lockdown for another two weeks, meaning schools, bars, gyms and other public facilities will remain shut until April . In Germany, Chancellor Angela Merkel has tightened curbs on social gatherings to just two people in a bid to contain the outbreak, telling the nation in a televised address that our own behavior was the most effective way of slowing the spread of infection. The great aim is to gain time in the fight against the virus, she added. Merkel herself then entered quarantine, after a doctor who gave her an unrelated vaccination last week tested positive for the virus. So far during the outbreak, Germany, Europes largest economy, has confirmed , cases and  deaths. Latest figures suggest that Germanys approach to dealing with the outbreak is working, as the infection curve, which shows the rate of increase in the number of cases, seems to be becoming less steep. We are seeing signs that the exponential growth curve is flattening off slightly, said Lothar Wieler, president of the Robert Koch Institute for disease control. But I will only be able to confirm this trend definitively on Wednesday. But I am optimistic that the measures are already having an effect, which is very early because they have only been in place for a week. The ongoing crisis has also caused a crimewave, with people producing fake medical, hygiene and personal protection products. In the UK a yearold man has appeared in court charged with making fake prevention kits, having been arrested following a tipoff from police in the United States. The European Unions antifraud office Olaf has published photos of fake masks designed for children that are being smuggled into and sold in the bloc. Italys La Repubblica newspaper reported that , masks and respirators sent by China to the Red Cross in Italy were mistakenly impounded by Czech customs authorities who thought they were being illegally smuggled. The Czech Republic sent , facemasks to Italy on Monday after confusion around a larger shipment of gear to protect against the virus was impounded by Czech authorities last week, Reuters reported.