Three provinces roll out COVID booster shots
2021-09-24 09:56
A person receives a dose of COVID vaccine at a vaccination site in Jiangxia district in Wuhan, Central Chinas Hubei province, June , . PhotoXinhua    Guangdong, Zhejiang and Henan provinces will start administering third doses of vaccine to residents this month to strengthen their immunity to COVID as sporadic outbreaks are reported in some parts of China. Those targeted for a third dose are people aged  to  who received two doses of coronavirus vaccine at least six months ago, authorities said. The city health commission in Shanwei, Guangdong province, said on Thursday that priority for the booster shot will be given to frontline personnel at medical institutions and workers in government departments, law enforcement, public services, customs, border ports, harbors, the coldchain industry and those who want to study abroad. Shanwei, in the east of the province, is the first city in Guangdong to roll out booster shots. Many of its residents received their second dose more than six months ago. Zhejiang and Henan will also begin administering third doses of vaccine to residents this month, according to local health authorities. The health commission in Shanwei said research has shown that a persons antibody level will be increased more than tenfold if a third dose of vaccine is given more than six months after the second, and that immunity will be maintained at a relatively high level for another six months. Government departments are sparing no effort to prevent and control the spread of locally transmitted cases in East Chinas Fujian province and Northeast Chinas Heilongjiang province. In Harbin, Heilongjiangs provincial capital, one residential community in Nangang district and a residential community, three residential buildings and a community health center in Bayan county were declared mediumrisk areas for COVID from Thursday, the citys epidemic prevention and control headquarters said. Harbin reported eight new locally transmitted confirmed cases of COVID on Wednesday, bringing the total to  since the first case in the latest outbreak was reported on Monday. Fujian reported  local cases on Wednesday, including  in Xiamen and three in Putian, the provincial health commission said on Thursday. From Sept  to Monday, Fujian reported  local confirmed cases, with all of them being hospitalized and no deaths recorded.