Coronavirus cases top , in Europe, more measures expected
2020-03-20 09:32
A man wearing a protective face mask in Sorrento as Italy remains under a nationwide lockdown in a government decree that orders Italians to stay at home, in Sorrento, Italy, March , . PhotoAgencies    BRUSSELS  Over , people across Europe had tested positive for the novel coronavirus as of Thursday evening, prompting European governments to unleash more antivirus measures. More than  European countries were hit by COVID, the disease caused by the new coronavirus. Italy, Spain, Germany and France were the four hardesthit, with each reporting more than , confirmed cases. In Italy, Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte said on Thursday that the nationwide lockdown, which has been in place from March  to April  to stem the spreading coronavirus, will be extended. Other government officials said further tightening on movement could be on the cards. In Italy, a total of  COVID patients had died in  hours, taking the countrys death toll to ,, according to new data released on Thursday by the Civil Protection Department. The cumulative number of coronavirus cases reached ,, making Italy the hardesthit country outside China, since the epidemic first broke out in its north on Feb. . Spain recorded the second most cases among European countries after Italy. Spanish health authorities said the number of COVID infections rose to , on Thursday, a percent increase on Wednesdays figure of ,, with  deaths from the virus. During a press conference, Health Minister Salvador Illa said Spain is approaching the peak in the number of COVID cases. We are reaching the hardest moments, in which we will see an increase in cases as we close in on the peak of infections, he said. Germany and France reported more than , COVID cases on Thursday for the first time. Data from Germanys disease control agency Robert Koch Institute RKI showed the number of confirmed cases of COVID has risen to , on Thursday, with  new deaths, bringing the death toll to over . French Director General of Health Jerome Salomon announced on Thursday that France has detected , cases of coronavirus infection. And  patients lost their lives in the past  hours, he noted, adding that , patients are currently in intensive care while , have recovered. He urged people to strictly respect the confinement order and cut contacts with others to curb the accelerating spread of the virus. Conte said that the nationwide coronavirus lockdown in Italy will be extended beyond its initial April  deadline. We have avoided a total collapse of our system, the prime minister said in broadcast comments. But the rigid measures taken by the government to counter the coronavirus emergency... will be extended beyond the deadline. Italian government officials have been complaining for days that the current restrictions  which include the closing of schools, restaurants, bars, tourist sites, offices, cinemas, or any other places where crowds may gather in close proximity  have not been followed closely enough as Italy tries to curb the spread of the coronavirus outbreak. Now the limits will be extended and more strictly enforced, local media reported. In neighboring Slovenia, the government announced partial lockdown with a decree, which bans gatherings and other events in public areas and restricts peoples movement. According to the decree, people will only be allowed to leave home to go to work, the pharmacy and to buy daily necessities at their closest shop. People will also be allowed to go outdoors and to parks, but only alone or with people living in the same household. French President Emmanuel Macron on Thursday pledged to invest  billion euros . billion US dollars over the next decade to boost scientific research against the coronavirus pandemic. The decision came as scientists and pharmaceutical companies are racing to develop vaccines to protect against the novel coronavirus, which has already claimed over , lives and infected more than , people globally. Also on Thursday, the Finnish Minister for Basic Services and Health Krista Kiuru announced that the government is applying a ban to visits to hospitals and care homes to minimize the risk of older people becoming infected with COVID, urging people aged over  to avoid unnecessary social contact. The European Central Bank ECB on Wednesday night announced an emergency bondbuying program of  billion euros  billion US dollars to counter the coronavirus risks. Extraordinary times require extraordinary action. There are no limits to our commitment to the euro. We are determined to use the full potential of our tools, within our mandate, ECB President Christine Lagarde tweeted following Wednesdays announcement. The German government plans to support freelancers and small businesses with a maximum of  employees with financial funds of up to  billion euros to dampen the negative economic effects of the coronavirus, according to German newspaper Handelsblatt on Thursday. The Greek government will support the economy with at least  billion euros, Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis said on Thursday after announcing the th death of the novel coronavirus in the country.