Trump signs nd virus relief bill
2020-03-19 08:31
US President Donald Trump meets with representatives of nurses organizations on coronavirus response as as Seema Verma, administrator of the Centers for Medicare  Medicaid Services, listens in the Cabinet Room of the White House in Washington, US, March , .PhotoAgencies    WASHINGTON  By a sweeping bipartisan tally, the Senate on Wednesday approved a  billionplus bill to boost testing for the coronavirus and guarantee paid sick leave for millions of workers hit by it  and President Donald Trump quickly signed it. But lawmakers and the White House had already turned their focus to the administrations far bigger  trillion plan to stabilize the economy as the pandemic threatens financial ruin for individuals and businesses. Details on Trumps economic rescue plan remain sparse  and its sure to grow with lawmaker addons  but its centerpiece is to dedicate  billion to start issuing direct payments to Americans by early next month. It would also funnel cash to businesses to help keep workers on payroll as widespread sectors of the  trillion US economy all but shut down. In a memorandum, the Treasury Department proposed two  billion cash infusions to individuals a first set of checks issued starting April , with a second wave in midMay. The amounts would depend on income and family size. The Treasury plan, which requires approval by Congress, also recommends  billion to stabilize the airlines,  billion to issue loan guarantees to other struggling sectors, and  billion for small businesses. The plan appears to anticipate that many of the loans would not be repaid. Taken together, the administration plan promises half of the  trillion to families and individuals, with the other half used to prop up businesses and keep employees on payroll. Direct payments would go to US citizens only, and would be tiered based on income level and family size. The two payments would be identical, with the second wave starting by May . The Treasury outline provides a basis for lawmakers to work from in an unprecedented government response and is likely to be broadened to include additional emergency funding for federal agencies. The price tag for the upcoming economic package alone promises to exceed Treasurys  trillion request, a rescue plan not seen since the Great Recession. Trump is urging Congress to pass the eyepopping stimulus package in a matter of days. The Senate plans to remain in session until the third coronavirus bill passes, with weekend sessions possible. The process ahead is uncertain, but pressure is enormous on lawmakers to act fast and not allow gamesmanship to get in the way of results. Economists say the country is probably already in recession and the stock market continued its free fall Wednesday. The panic has many lawmakers shedding their ideological baggage to grapple with an enormous undertaking for a crisis that exceeds the scope of the  financial panic  a virtual weekslong shutdown of many businesses and unemployment that could spike to  by some estimates. At the Capitol on Wednesday, Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell prepared his colleagues for unprecedented steps to deal with the epidemics assault on the economy. I will not adjourn the Senate until we pass a far bolder package, McConnell said.We arent leaving until we deliver. But first, the Senate approved a  billionplus Housepassed package of sick pay, emergency food aid, free testing and more money for Medicaid, despite Republican objections over the potential impact on small businesses saddled with a new mandate to pay sick leave. The government would reimburse businesses, but business advocacy groups say the plan isnt workable for many small firms. Still, only eight Republicans voted no. This legislation is not perfect, but we cannot let the perfect be the enemy of the good, said GOP Sen. Todd Young of Indiana. Trump, whose support of the package swayed most Republicans, quickly signed it Wednesday night. McConnell is trying to take control of the third coronavirus effort, putting GOP chairmen in charge and promising to consult with Senate Democrats later. Top Senate Democrat Chuck Schumer of New York blasted McConnells approach, saying its too cumbersome, too partisan and will take far too long, given the urgency and need for cooperation. Schumer has spoken with Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin, however, and retains considerable influence as the Senate plans to work into the weekend to try to pass the measure. Pelosi and McConnell have talked as well. Pelosi sent a public signal to McConnell with the release of an authorized readout of a Wednesday call with top Democratic leaders. The fastest way to get a third package finished by early next week as Secretary Mnuchin has suggested, is to have a four corners negotiation, Pelosi said, referring to the top leaders of Congress in both House and Senate. Wednesdays Treasury plan includes  billion in small business interruption loans that would be  guaranteed by the federal government to cover six weeks of payroll during the crisis. These loans would be made through private banks  and forgiven in many instances. Every penny that they borrow and use for purposes of keeping people employed, they will not have to pay back, said Sen. Marco Rubio, RFla., chief author of a detailed Senate plan. The plan would also establish a  billion lending program dedicated to imperiled airlines, which would be required to keep flying as a condition of securing loans. Another  billion would underwrite loans to other business sectors. Details on the loan programs were fuzzy, but terms are sure to be heavily subsidized. Fresh from primary campaigning, Sen. Bernie Sanders floated his own ideas  having the federal government keep paying employees paychecks and Medicare cover unmet healthcare needs stemming from the outbreak. The fastest way to deal with the economic crisis is for the federal government to guarantee that all employers will be able to meet their payroll and keep their workers on the payroll, Sanders told reporters. It is an expensive proposal, but I think that is the fastest and best way to make sure that working people in this country continue to have a paycheck. Overnight, the White House sent lawmakers a separate  billion emergency funding request to boost medical care for military service members and veterans, fund production of vaccines and medicines, build  quarantine centers at the southern border for migrants, make federal buildings safer, and reimburse Amtrak for  million in anticipated revenue losses, among other purposes. The Trump request also reverses cuts to the Centers for Disease Control and National Institutes of Health that Trump proposed in his February budget for next year and would create a  billion fund for unanticipated needs. Economists doubted that the massive economic rescue package being drafted would enough to stop millions of jobs losses, even if in the short term. Its aimed at helping Americans without paychecks avoid foreclosure and other financial hardships and preventing businesses from sliding into bankruptcy. The Treasury plan is on par with the  billion  bank bailout or the nearly  billion  recovery act. The White House proposal aims to provide a massive tax cut for wageearners,  billion for the airline industry and  billion for small businesses. But nothing is set in concrete, and all the pressure is for the package to keep growing. The amount that would be sent out in checks Americans is not yet decided. The White House said it liked GOP Sen. Mitt Romneys idea for , checks, though not necessarily at that sum and not for wealthier people. Senate Democrats produced their own  billion proposal, which includes  billion to shore up hospitals and other emergency operations in response to the global pandemic and  billion to bolster the safety net with unemployment checks and other aid to Americans. In the House, Reps. Mario DiazBalart, RFla., and Ben McAdams, DUtah, released statements saying they had tested positive for COVID  the first two known cases in Congress. Several other lawmakers have cycled in and out of selfisolation after exposure to individuals who had later tested positive for the virus. For most people, the new coronavirus causes only mild or moderate symptoms, such as fever and cough. For some, especially older adults and people with existing health problems, it can cause more severe illness, including pneumonia. The vast majority of people recover from the new virus. According to the World Health Organization, people with mild illness recover in about two weeks, while those with more severe illness may take three to six weeks to recover. Agencies via Xinhua