Hardhit Italy sees stillrising infection rate
2020-03-12 02:59
A pedestrian wearing a face mask walks on a street in Rome, Italy, March , . Italian Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte announced late Monday that the whole of Italy will be placed under lockdown from Tuesday until April . PhotoXinhua    Streets in Rome were virtually deserted Tuesday as Italy enforced a nationwide quarantine that limited movement within the country that now has the highest number of coronavirus cases outside of China. By Tuesday, total infections in Italy had reached ,, an increase of  percent from Monday following many days of increases close to  percent. Total deaths, however, rose by  percent to . Globally, the total number of confirmed coronavirus cases across  countries and regions climbed to ,, according to data compiled by Johns Hopkins University as of Tuesday evening. More than , people have been killed by COVID. The US has  confirmed cases of the novel coronavirus, according to data compiled by the university. At least  states have declared states of emergency. Declaring a state of emergency concentrates a state governments efforts on dealing with a crisis and allows it to waive or suspend some regulations. In China, dwindling newcase reports and falling numbers of sick patients suggested the country has brought the epidemic under control within its borders, even as infections continue to jump globally. The country on Tuesday reported just  new coronavirus infections, taking its total number of cases to ,. Health authorities said , individuals are currently ill with the disease after , people died and more than , recovered. South Korea, which was previously the country with the most coronavirus infections outside of China, reported  new cases, bringing its total to ,, including  deaths. Still, newcase numbers in South Korea  which topped  at their peak have dropped over the past week. Another six countries, including Spain, France and Iran reported more than , confirmed cases. New cases in Spain rose to ,, while the total in France increased to ,, with  deaths. On Tuesday, Iran reported  new deaths from COVID, bringing the total number of fatalities to  as the number of confirmed cases grew to ,. Dale Fisher, an infectious disease expert at the National University of Singapore, said six weeks after China took the extreme measure of locking down the city of Wuhan in Hubei province, the number of new locally transmitted cases in other provinces is now close to zero, while infection rates in Wuhan have also dropped sharply. Fisher was part of a World Health Organizationled international team of experts that visited China last month to learn more about the epidemic. In the absence of a cure or vaccine for the disease, he said the formula for containing the virus spread should be the same everywhere identify cases early, track down patients contacts and isolate people with symptoms. There shouldnt be public debates over what should or should not be done, he said. In New York, Governor Andrew Cuomo said the state would establish a containment area in the Westchester County suburb of New Rochelle, just north of New York City, closing major gathering places and facilities, such as temples, in a roughly squaremile area for two weeks starting Thursday. The governor said National Guard troops would clean schools and deliver food to quarantined residents, adding that individuals would still be free to walk around. Westchester County, which has  virus cases and many more people in quarantine, is probably the largest cluster in the United States, Cuomo said. In Washington state, which has the most deaths, Governor Jay Inslee said Tuesday that as many as , people could be infected with the virus within two months if actions arent taken now to stop its spread. Although the number of confirmed cases is now , Inslee said experts believe the actual number could be , or more. What the experts are telling us is ... the number of people who are infected will double in anywhere from five to eight days ... unless we take some real action, the governor said at a morning news conference. And if you do the math, it gets very disturbing. ... If its , infections today, in seven to eight weeks there could be , people infected in the state of Washington if we dont somehow slow down this epidemic. And in the next week it could be ,, and in the next week a quarter of a million. We need to look forward and get ahead of the curve in Washington state, Inslee added. If were going to stop this epidemic or seriously slow it down, we need to focus on whats coming  not whats here today. He then outlined a number of steps the state is taking to slow the spread of the virus, including new rules for nursing homes and an expansion of unemployment benefits. These could be followed by more dramatic actions later, Inslee said. Inslee also announced an expansion of state policies today to support workers and businesses financially affected by the outbreak. He said the rules will help relieve the burden of temporary layoffs, isolation and quarantine by ensuring unemployment benefits are available to individuals whose employment has been caused directly by the virus. Another  cases of COVID have been confirmed among residents at Kirklands Life Care Center, the nursing home tied to  deaths from the virus. US airlines on Tuesday announced plans to cut more flights across domestic and international markets, park planes and freeze hiring as more businesses curtail employee travel and consumers put off holiday trips. In California, passengers began disembarking from the cruise liner Grand Princess in Oakland. The ship was carrying at least  people who tested positive for the coronavirus. The vessels operator said that disembarking all passengers will be a multiple day process. Screening passengers will require a stepbystep approach that prioritized the most vulnerable among the ships more than , cruisegoers, said Dr Anthony Fauci, director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases. The vessel had been waiting off the coast of San Francisco since Wednesday, when officials announced that a passenger from a previous cruise on the vessel had died. Also Tuesday, Massachusetts reported  new cases, bringing the total number of cases in the state to . At least  of the cases in Massachusetts are linked to a conference in Boston last month held by the biotech company Biogen, according to state health officials. Many of the people who attended the person event have reported feeling ill. Linda Deng in Seattle contributed to this story.