UK travel rules described as illogical, discriminatory
2021-09-24 09:26
An aircraft takes off at Heathrow Airport amid the spread of the coronavirus disease pandemic in London, on Feb , . PhotoAgencies    The United Kingdom government is facing mounting anger over its refusal to recognize some arriving travelers as fully vaccinated for COVID unless they received their jabs in a select group of countries. The governments new rules, unveiled last Friday, effectively mean travelers must have received a vaccine under a United States, British or European program or have received a UKauthorized shot from what it calls an approved health body, said the Associated Press. Those who have been doublejabbed with vaccines in Africa or most parts of Latin America, and some countries in Asia, including India, will be considered not fully vaccinated and forced to quarantine for  days. Visitors vaccinated with OxfordAstraZeneca, PfizerBioNTech, Moderna or Janssen shots arriving from nations such as the US or Australia, or any European Union country, will be allowed to enter without quarantine. Britains transport minister, Grant Shapps, said the rules were a new simplified system for international travel. But critics around the world have denounced the restrictions as illogical, highlighting that they apply to where the vaccines are given and not the brand, reported The Guardian on Thursday. The paper quoted a diplomat from Latin America as saying There isnt a single person I have spoken to who isnt angry about this. People are perplexed. How can a Pfizer or Moderna or AstraZeneca vaccine that is administered in Latin America not be sufficient for someone to be allowed in? I just dont see how this can be acceptable, they added. A western African diplomat told the publication the restrictions were discriminatory. They said But its not even the discrimination that concerns me the most its the message it sends out. All around the world were struggling with vaccine hesitancy. Theres all sorts of fake news. When you say, We are not going to accept the vaccine from Africa, you lend credence to these kinds of theories. Its only going to create a situation where it allows the pandemic to be prolonged. Indias Hindustan Times called the restrictions illogical and harmful in an editorial. Indian politician Shashi Tharoor described the restrictions as offensive, in a social media post on Monday. Helen Rees, a medical researcher and a lead advisor to the World Health Organization on immunization in Africa, told the Guardian the restrictions were inexplicable and must be reconsidered. We cant close our borders, we must trust the vaccines and we must trust the governments that are administering the vaccines, she said. In response to the criticism, the UK government has said it is working to figure out a phased approach to its international travel guidelines. A statement said Our top priority remains protecting public health, and reopening travel in a safe and sustainable way, which is why vaccine certification from all countries must meet the minimum criteria taking into account public health and wider considerations.