From patriotism to humanity China leading the fight of the COVID
2020-03-03 13:46
The outbreak of the novel coronavirus has not only impacted human and social life in terms of disease and infection but also created a controversy in the international media and social network to the point that some western media fell into the trap of racism and xenophobia showing an unusual and an inhuman reactions, instead of solidarity and unity exhibition. Since China is the first country infected with this virus, so it has already started its fight, the government as a leader has put a clear and effective strategy with successful measures of treatment, protection and prevention. In order to maintain the situation the government dedicated all kind of resources and todays statics shows an increasing of the confirmed infections and death cases and a considered decrease of healed peoples number. As a matter of fact, the World Health Organization chief TedrosAdhanom Ghebreyesus has defended his earlier praise of Chinas response to the outbreak and mentioned that all the member of the WHO has praised China for what it did by taking action in the epicenter, helped to prevent cases of being exported to other provinces in china and the rest of the world. This formal spoken statement just confirmed the truth to the world about Chinas reliability and the sacrifices made to safeguard the world. All Chinese governments management and measures wouldnt be successful without the great response of the society. As a matter of fact we need to acknowledge the high level of patriotism of the Chinese citizens. No matter their social statusthe military, police, engineers, workers, doctors and nurses, business and company owners, celebrities, civilians and ordinary people, students and volunteers, youngmiddleold generations, all this people responded to the call of duty applied and followed meticulously all the recommended measures by the government, indeed by their own free will, they sacrificed wealth, made many donations, provided help and assistance donated free masks , free supplies, goods, food and even provided free services, and differently some people made a priceless contribution such the doctors, fully dedicated, working on clock on the front line risking and even sacrificing their lives to save other peoples lives. Meantime, in the other side of the globe the coronavirus kept spreading, the virus is traveling the world it has no boundaries and its affecting the economy, the social life and the public health, it becomes a public enemy, presenting a threat especially for the African communities, in fact many of them they do not have neither the financial means nor a good health security. But since the outbreak of COVID, the Africa CDC Center for Disease Control and Prevention took many actions and followed the Chinese in term of union and solidarity. Indeed Africa CDC collaborated with the World Health Organization to train incoming analysts in eventbased surveillance. Also The Africa CDC has been working with member states to build infection prevention and control capacities in healthcare facilities and with the airline sector to support screening of travelers. These prevention measures may help control the COVID, but African leaders still need to pay attention and follow suit to avoid an outbreak and not reproduce the Italian or Iranian scenarios. Recently, World Health Organization chief TedrosAdhanom Ghebreyesus warned about the efficiency of the prevention measures and said mediocre preparations could have fatal consequences. He also said the real struggle lies in management of the situation in case of an outbreak. Generally, Africa doesnt have a high level of public health. Many diseases and viruses have appeared on the continent, such as HIV, Ebola and tuberculosis. In order to fight and eliminate this threat, a number of African governments have increased expenditures allocated to health and started cooperation for health development with the Chinese government. China promised to continue to scale up assistance to African countries by creating a health care intuitive allowing the African countries to achieve independent and sustainable development. The plan also contain a longterm strategy of health development, exchange of scientists and new research and technical support for strengthening healthrelated capacities under the International Health Regulations. China aim to improve African medical and health service and hospital management to provide a better services to the African people by training medical staff, public health workers and administrative personnel. Besides China promised to upgrade its medical and health aid programs for Africa, particularly flagship projects such as the headquarters of the African Center for Disease Control and Prevention. The cooperations plan shows the ChineseAfrican comity, thefriendshipand the mutualrespect and we can clearly see that China is determined to the contribution in the development of the African nations. The actual epidemic situation of the COVID in Africa needs more attention and prevention, the collaboration precisely with china will be a wise action considering the Chinese experience of management, logistics, and organization to maintain the situation in case of outbreak and bringing out the best of the SinoAfrican alliance. Despite that China is still fighting this epidemic in its own territory, the government express his readiness to help the other infected countries, recently the Chinese Foreign Ministry expresses sincere thanks for the support and assistance provided by many countries such South Korea and Japan, adding that China is ready to improve and strengthen the mechanism of responding to health and epidemic emergencies and promote the exchange of epidemiological information, exchange of experiences, prevention and control, to implement cooperation In the areas of diagnosis, treatment, research programs, and the development of medicines and vaccines. We can conclude that China is acting heroically in the middle of its own fight against the virus the PRC still showing gratitude and good will to help others countries. Till now Africa still has the chance to prevent and learn the Chinese experience, sadly some Africans countries still didnt take serious prevention measures but China can provide the help and the assistance. During the outbreak of the COVID we all have seen the Chinese citizen showing patriotism and helping to maintain the situation, meanwhile The Chinese government have shown the same to the world, the lockdown was a strategy to stop the virus from spreading globally, if the Chinese government didnt take the decision to lockdown cities and stop flights and traffics, experts confirmed that the COVID could infect much more of global population, in fact it was a noble and human act, full of altruism and unselfish, all the matter was the human life. Now China jumps to the next step which is helping the affected countries and proposing ways of preventions, sharing the genetic code for the virus with researchers around the world and providing medical trials information, treatment, and research programs for the development of medicines. Its time for solidarity and support and to have hope. This is a matter of life or death, and China can fight against the outbreak with Africa and the rest of the world to the safety. to restore faith in humanity. The author is a PhD candidate at the Institute of African Studies at Zhejiang Normal University.