Ambitious response to epidemic receives praise
2020-03-02 06:50
A map showing the distribution of coronavirus COVID cases all around the world as of Feb ,  is displayed on a TV during a World Health Organization WHO news conference on the situation of the coronavirus COVID in Geneva, Switzerland, Feb , . PhotoAgencies    Visiting team advises nations to learn from strategies employed by China To the global community grappling with new outbreaks of novel coronavirus pneumonia, a joint team of World Health Organization and Chinese experts has reinforced its calltoaction in a new report, advising them to learn from Chinas experiences in controlling the epidemic and prepare immediately to implement similar measures. The joint team has praised the Chinese peoples collective commitment and sacrifices, and endorsed the governments phased lifting of restrictions and resumption of production, according to the report released on Saturday, about a week after the team completed a nineday China field trip. In the face of a previously unknown virus, China has rolled out perhaps the most ambitious, agile and aggressive disease containment effort in history, the report says. However, the world is not ready, in mindset and materially, to implement the measures that have been employed to contain COVID in Chinathe only strategy so far proven to curb the rapidly escalating epidemic, according to the report. In the absence of a vaccine or cure, the recommended strategy entails immediate detection of cases, rigorous tracing of close contacts, and community compliance with limiting travel and restricting movement.  The Chinese have approached a brandnew virus thats never been seen before with very standard, oldfashioned public health tools and applied these with a rigor and innovation on a scale weve never seen in history, Bruce Aylward, a Canadian epidemiologist and leader of the teams foreign expert panel, said last week at a media briefing. The foreign panel, including experts from Japan, Germany, the United States and Russia, had landed in China harboring doubts about the feasibility and impact of such interventions, especially when the target virus is a respiratory pathogen that can spread rapidly and easily, and all age groups are susceptible to it. But eventually, according to Aylward, the team came to unanimously agree that China has changed the course of a rapidly escalating outbreak that has recently plateaued and declined faster through ambitious, agile and aggressive containment efforts. Liang Wannian, head of the joint teams Chinese expert panel, said What China has done is both resolute and agile and what the country has achieved is an example and a feat in the history of public health. China has shown that forceful nonpharmaceutical measures can effectively cut the viruss transmission, and we have boosted global confidence in controlling the disease, he said in an interview with China Central Television on Sunday afternoon. The report also recognizes the commitment of the Chinese people and coordinated government efforts. As of Friday, over  medical assistance teams consisting of more than , medical workers had been dispatched to Hubei, according to the National Health Commission. With the mitigated risk of COVID in China and emerging outbreaks in other countries, the report suggests that foreign countries that are seeing clusters of infections must rapidly adopt similar measures to achieve a second line of defense for global health. Recovery rate grows National Health Commission data released on Sunday again accentuates the overall nationwide slowdown of the disease, with  new infections reported in Hubei province on Saturday and three new confirmed cases elsewhere on the Chinese mainland. The death toll rose by  on Saturday to ,. The cumulative number of infections in China stood at ,. Another , patients were discharged from hospitals on Saturday, bringing the total of those cured to ,, surpassing for the first time the number of people under treatment at hospitalstallied at , on the same dayaccording to the commission. The recovery rate has been increasing in the past week, with the national average reaching . percent, said the commission spokesman Mi Feng on Sunday. This signifies that the epidemic situation is trending positively, medical treatment has yielded notable results and strain on the healthcare system has been eased. The report urges other countries to reassess any travel or trade restrictions that go beyond the recommendations of the International Health Regulations Emergency Committee. Chinas rapid return to full connectivity with the world, and to full productivity and economic output, is vital to China and to the world, it says.