WHO increases coronavirus risk to very high
2020-02-29 00:24
Director General of the World Health Organization WHO Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus attends a news conference on the situation of the coronavirus COVID, in Geneva, Switzerland, Feb , .PhotoAgencies    The World Health Organization upgraded its coronavirus risk assessment to very high on Friday as cases of the novel coronavirus COVID disease continue to increase and in more countries. The WHO said on Friday that it had received reports of a total of , cases in  countries, and  deaths, outside China. Denmark, Estonia, Lithuania, the Netherlands and Nigeria had all reported their first cases in the  hours before Fridays press conferences in Geneva. All the cases have links to Italy. The continued increase in the number of cases, and the number of affected countries over the last few days, are clearly of concern, said the WHOs DirectorGeneral Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus. He said that WHO epidemiologists have been monitoring these developments continuously. We have now increased our assessment of the risk of spread and the risk of impact of COVID to very high at a global level, he said. According to the WHO, most cases can still be traced to known contacts or clusters of cases. It does not see evidence as yet that the virus is spreading freely in communities. As long as thats the case, we still have a chance of containing this virus, if robust action is taken to detect cases early, isolate and care for patients and trace contacts, Tedros said. The key to containing this virus is to break the chains of transmission. Tedros said that work is progressing on vaccines and therapeutics. More than  vaccines are in development globally, and several therapeutics are in clinical trials. We expect the first results in a few weeks, he said. He cautioned that people can still take action to protect themselves, despite the lack of a vaccine. There are things every individual can do to protect themselves and others today, he said, citing basic things such as washing hands regularly, cleaning surfaces regularly with disinfectant, being well informed on COVID, avoiding travelling with a fever or cough, not coughing or sneezing into clothing, and for people over  to take extra precautions. Michael Ryan, executive director of the WHOs Health Emergencies Program, repeated at the press conference that it is not accurate to use the word pandemic. If we say there is a pandemic coronavirus, we are essentially accepting that every human on the planet will be exposed to that virus. The data does not support that, he said. China has clearly shown thats not necessarily the natural outcome of this event if we take action, if we move quickly, if we do the things we need to do. That does not need to be the history of this event, He emphasized that if countries dont take action, dont move quickly and dont get ready, that might be a future that people have to experience and endure. So much of the future of this epidemic is not in the hands of the virus. A lot of the future of this epidemic is in the hands of ourselves, he said. Maria Van Kerkhove, technical lead with the program, said there is a lot that countries can learn from China in dealing with COVID. Kerkhove, who just returned from a twoweek trip to China, said lessons learned can be useful for lowincome and highincome countries, lowincidence and highincidence areas, as well as areas with migrant populations.