China confident to achieve successful resumption of production amid epidemic
2020-02-28 16:12
A worker welds boat parts at a workshop of a boat manufacturing company in east Chinas Jiangsu Province, Feb. , . To reduce the losses caused by the novel coronavirus epidemic, workers of the factory have been working overtime to complete overseas orders. Wang HaoPeoples Daily Online    China is implementing targeted policies and taking solid actions to minimize the economic impact from the novel coronavirus COVID epidemic, with a dual approach of ensuring both epidemic prevention and work resumption. China and the world are closely related, so the country will fulfill its responsibility of safeguarding global public health security, and stick to its original intention of contributing to global economic growth through its own development. At such a time it is even more important to view Chinas development in a comprehensive, dialectical and longterm perspective, and to strengthen and firm up confidence. The important speech delivered by Xi Jinping, general secretary of the Communist Party of China CPC Central Committee at a meeting to advance the work on coordinating the prevention and control of the COVID and economic and social development in Beijing has demonstrated Chinas confidence to meet its goals for social and economic development. Economy is a dynamic and circulating system that cant withstand longterm stoppage. The Chinese people are fighting day and night to mitigate the losses caused by the epidemic. The governments have mobilized regions at different levels of risks to take differentiated prevention and control measures, smoothed the flow of labor and logistics, and lifted restriction on transportation of cargos. The enterprises have taken innovative measures to resume production and work, such as chartering airplanes and highspeed trains to take employees back to work. In the meantime, farmers across the country are also busy ploughing and preparing for farm works. The epidemic wont destroy the Chinese economy. International observers believe that as labor, raw materials, and export of products are guaranteed, Chinas economy will certainly go back to normal at an early date. International Monetary Fund IMF Managing Director Kristalina Georgieva said that she expects Chinas economy to return to normal in the second quarter of . Stephen Roach, a senior fellow at Yale Universitys Jackson Institute of Global Affairs, said as the epidemic is gradually controlled, Chinas economy may bounce back in the future, adding that Im still very optimistic on the prospects for the Chinese economy. In the era of economic globalization, countries are linked with and dependent on one another, and have emerged as a community with a shared future and common interests. Numerous facts have proved that the world will do well only when China does well. According to a Morgan Stanley analyst, in recent days, investors have been seeking to track Chinas resumption of production, which indicates keen attention paid by the international market. China is striving to deepen opening up and international cooperation, and strengthen communication and coordination with its economic and trade partners. The country gives priority to guaranteeing production and supply resumption of leading companies and key links in an effort to maintain stability of the global supply chain, demonstrating a sense of responsibility of a major country for global development. The impact of the epidemic on Chinas economy is shortlived, if observed in a comprehensive, dialectical and longterm perspective. Chinas economy is resilient the domestic demand is large and the industrial foundation is solid, which indicates that the fundamentals sustaining sound economic growth have not changed. China is the worlds second largest economy, largest manufacturing country, and an important hub of the global supply chain. It is also the worlds largest trader of goods, second largest destination of foreign capital inflow and secondlargest recipient of foreign direct investment. Chinas per capita GDP has reached ,, and the number of middleincome earners in the country has exceeded  million. It is the worlds fastestgrowing consumer market. Recently, multiple foreign manufacturing companies have restarted production and work in China, including Tesla, BMW, Toyota, Samsung, Airbus, and Honeywell, and some foreignfunded companies have signed contracts to enter the Chinese market on the internet. This fully shows that Chinas comprehensive competitive advantage in attracting foreign investment has not changed, and foreign investors confidence in China and their investment strategies have not changed. Looking at opportunities through challenges, we can better see the potential and prospects of Chinas economy. Some international observers noticed that Chinas national antiepidemic fight has boosted the homebody economy and cloud lifestyles, and nurtured new business models such as intelligent manufacturing, unmanned delivery, online consumption, and health care industries. This has not only met the needs of the people and unleashed emerging consumption potential, but also opened up a new space for highquality economic development. In addition, to defeat the epidemic, China is increasing support for the research and development of reagents, medicines, and vaccines, and accelerating the development of biomedicine, medical equipment, G network, and industrial Internet. It is foreseeable that after the epidemic is defeated, Chinas economic development will gain stronger new momentum. China has the ability and confidence to overcome the epidemic, and it is fully confident to turn pressure into impetus and convert crisis into opportunity to achieve economic and social development tasks. The stable development of Chinas economy will surely continue to inject confidence and momentum into global growth.