Joint efforts needed to reduce global economic shocks
2020-02-27 14:01
Stephen Roach, a senior fellow at the Jackson Institute of Global Affairs and a senior lecturer at Yales School of Management. Photo provided to chinadaily.com.cn    The COVID outbreak comes at a particularly vulnerable point in the global business cycle. World output expanded by just . percent in   the slowest pace since the  global financial crisis and just . percentage points above the . percent threshold typically associated with global recession. Moreover, vulnerability increased in most major economies over the course of last year, making prospects for early  all the more uncertain. In Japan, the worlds thirdlargest economy, growth contracted at a . percent annual rate in the fourth quarter  much sharper than expected following another consumptiontax hike. In Germany and France industrial output fell sharply in December, by . percent and . percent respectively. And although the United States, the worlds largest economy in terms of GDP, appeared relatively resilient by comparison, . percent real inflationadjusted GDP growth in the fourth quarter of  hardly qualifies as a boom. As for China, the worlds largest economy in purchasing power parity terms, its growth slowed to a year low of  percent in the last quarter of . Virus outbreak has had huge impact on economy In other words, there was no margin for an accident at the beginning of this year. Yet there has been a big accident Chinas COVID shock. Daily activity trackers compiled by Morgan Stanleys China team underscore the nationwide impact of this disruption. As of Feb , coal consumption still  percent of Chinas total energy consumption remained down  percent from the yearearlier pace, and nationwide transportation comparisons were even weaker The disruptions to supply are especially acute. Not only is China the worlds largest exporter by a wide margin, it also plays a critical role at the center of global value chains. Recent research shows that the global value chains account for nearly  percent of growth in world trade, with China the most important source of this expansion. Apples recent earnings alert says it all the China shock is a major bottleneck to global supply. Demandside effects also affect global trade But demandside effects are also very important. After all, China is now the largest source of external demand for most Asian economies. Not surprisingly, trade data for both Japan and the Republic of Korea in early  show unmistakable signs of weakness. As a result, it is virtually certain that Japan will record two consecutive quarters of negative GDP growth, which would make it three for three in experiencing recessions each time it has raised its consumption tax ,  and . The shortfall in Chinese demand is also likely to hit an already weakening European Union economy very hard  especially Germany  and could even take a toll on a Teflonlike US economy, where China plays an important role as the countrys thirdlargest and most rapidly growing export market. The sharp plunge in a preliminary tally of US purchasing managers sentiment for February hints at just such a possibility, and underscores the timehonored adage that no country is an oasis in a faltering global economy. Epidemiologists will have the final word on the endgame for COVID and its economic impact. While that science is well beyond my expertise, I take the point that the current strain of coronavirus seems to be more contagious but less lethal than severe acute respiratory syndrome was in early . SARS was followed by strong rebound I was in Beijing during that outbreak  years ago and remember well the fear and uncertainty that gripped China back then. But that the disruption was brief  a onequarter shortfall of  percentage points in nominal GDP growth  followed by a vigorous rebound over the next four quarters. In , circumstances were very different. China was booming  with real GDP surging by  percent  and the world economy was growing by . percent. For China and the world, a SARSrelated disruption barely made a dent. That is far from being the case today. COVID has hit at a time of much greater economic vulnerability. Significantly, the shock is concentrated on the worlds most important growth engine. The International Monetary Fund puts Chinas share of global output at . percent this year, more than double its . percent share in , during the SARS outbreak. Also, with China having accounted for  percent of the cumulative growth in world GDP since  and no other economy stepping up to fill the void, the risk of outright global recession in the first half of  seems a possibility. Yes this, too, will pass. While vaccine production will take time   months at the very least, the experts say  the combination of warmer weather in the northern hemisphere and unprecedented containment measures could mean that the infection rate peaks at some point in the next few weeks. But the economic response will undoubtedly lag the virus infection curve. Which means, at a minimum, a twoquarter growth shortfall for China, double the duration of the shortfall during SARS, suggesting that China could miss its  percent annual growth target for  by as much as one percentage point. Important to heed implications of trend This matters little to the optimistic consensus of investors. After all, by definition shocks are merely temporary disruptions of an underlying trend. While it is tempting to dismiss this shock for that very reason, the key is to heed the implications of the underlying trend. The world economy was weak, and getting weaker, when COVID struck. The Vshaped recovery trajectory of a SARSlike episode will thus be much tougher to replicate  especially with monetary and fiscal authorities in the US, Japan and the EU having such little ammunition at their disposal. That, of course, was the big risk all along. In these days of dipbuying froth, Chinas sneeze may prove to be especially vexing for longcomplacent financial markets. The author, a faculty member at Yale University and former Chairman of Morgan Stanley Asia, is the author of Unbalanced The Codependency of America and China. Project Syndicate The views dont necessarily reflect those of China Daily.