Melbourne faces more antilockdown protests as daily cases hit pandemic high
2021-09-23 10:15
Riot police guard Victorias Parliament House as construction workers and far right activists protest against coronavirus disease COVID restrictions in Melbourne, Australia, Sept , . PhotoAgencies    SYDNEY  Police in Australias secondlargest city of Melbourne prepared for a fourth day of antilockdown protests on Thursday after more than  arrests a day earlier, while COVID cases across the state of Victoria hit a daily record. Hundreds of protesters have taken to the streets in the city of  million since officials earlier this week ordered a twoweek closure of building sites and made vaccines mandatory for construction workers to limit the spread of the virus. Police used capsicum spray and foam baton rounds on Wednesday to disperse protesters who gathered at a memorial honouring war service, prompting veteran groups and some politicians to speak out against using the shrine as a rally point. It dishonoured those Australians who have made the ultimate sacrifice and I would hope any and all who were engaged in that disgraceful behaviour should be ashamed, Prime Minister Scott Morrison told reporters in Washington D.C. on Thursday. As authorities brace for more protests, Victoria reported  new locally acquired cases, topping its previous pandemic daily high of  hit on Aug , , and four new deaths. It reported  cases on Wednesday. Australia is fighting a third wave of infections from an outbreak of the Delta variant in its two largest cities, Sydney and Melbourne, and its capital Canberra, forcing nearly half the countrys  million people into strict stayathome restrictions. Officials have promised to ease lockdown rules once  of adults are fully vaccinated, which is expected next month. Some . of people aged  and older are fully vaccinated in New South Wales and about  in Victoria. Australias total infections topped ,, with some , recorded since midJune when the first Delta case was detected in Sydney. Total deaths are just below ,, but still lower than in many other comparable countries. Reuters