Xis speech to UN boosts global confidence, envoy says
2021-09-22 10:47
Chinese President Xi Jinping addresses the general debate of the th session of the United Nations General Assembly via video on Sept , . PhotoXinhua    President Xi Jinpings speech Tuesday to the United Nations General Assembly helps to boost global confidence and strength and demonstrates Chinas courage and sense of mission as a responsible country, said Chinas ambassador to the United Nations. Xi puts forward a series of new propositions, new conclusions and new measures on issues such as building unity in the fight against the pandemic, rebuilding the economy, developing international relations, and improving global governance, said Zhang Jun, Chinas permanent representative to the UN. In particular, Xis proposal of a global development initiative grasps the major, urgent issues the world currently faces. It reflects the common aspiration of the international community, especially the developing countries, the ambassador said. It can be said that with the world at a historical crossroad, Chinese leaders once again offer Chinas vision and plan, he said. He noted that representatives from many countries spoke highly of President Xis important speech, which was delivered by video to UN Headquarters in New York. They believe the remarks chart the course for the future of the world and show Chinas courage and sense of mission as a responsible power, Zhang said. This year marks the centenary of the founding of the Communist Party of China, as well as the th anniversary of the restoration of Chinas lawful seat at the UN, he said. At this historical moment, President Xis attendance at the UN General Assembly and his delivery of an important speech is of special historical significance, he added. Zhang made the comments after listening to Xis speech along with representatives from more than  countries during the first day of the UNs annual General Debate. The gathering kicked off as world leaders took turns presenting their insights about climate change, the pandemic, global insecurity and other challenges facing the world. The discussion this year takes place through a hybrid format due to COVID. Noting that this year marks the th year anniversary of the restoration of Chinas lawful seat at the UN, President Xi vowed to continue to take Chinas cooperation with the United Nations to a new level. Xi stressed the importance of beating the COVID pandemic through a coordinated global response. He reiterated Chinas support for the fair and equitable distribution of vaccines in the world. To that end, China will strive to provide  billion doses of vaccines to the world by the end of this year. In addition, China will donate  million to COVAX COVID Vaccines Global Access and  million doses of vaccines to other developing countries this year, the president said. Xi proposed a global development initiative that would be more robust, greener and more balanced. He emphasized a peoplecentered and benefit for all approach to development. He also urged more support for developing countries. China has pledged an additional  billion in international assistance in the next three years to help developing countries recover from the pandemic, Xi said. On climate change, Xi said China will enhance support for other developing countries in developing green and lowcarbon energy. China will not build new coalpowered projects abroad, he said. Xi urged countries to strengthen solidarity and to accommodate diverse paths to modernization. He reiterated Chinas call for the practice of true multilateralism and to uphold the international system with the UN at its core.