Many Africans wary of COVID vaccination amid ongoing misinformation AU
2021-09-22 10:02
A man receives the second dose of COVID vaccine in Nairobi, capital of Kenya, June , . PhotoXinhua    ADDIS ABABA  Ongoing misinformation about COVID vaccines is contributing to many people across Africa to be skeptical of getting COVID vaccine jabs, the African Union AU has said. The statement was made by William Carew, head of the Secretariat of AUs Economic Social and Cultural Council, as he urged the African populace to get vaccinated if herd immunity is to be achieved. Only some . percent of Africas population are fully vaccinated against COVID so far. There has been a lot of misinformation about the COVID vaccines that had contributed to many people being wary of getting vaccinated, an AU statement issued Tuesday quoted Carew as saying. Carew made the remarks during COVID vaccines capacity building and sensitization meeting, which was held recently as part of the Councils continental sensitization campaign aimed at promoting the accessibility and use of the COVID vaccines in order to build herd immunity in Africa. He called on Africans to implement public health experts assertion that vaccination remains the only realistic path to finally halting the spread of the virus given its ease of transmissibility and ability to mutate. I want to urge you all to take this opportunity to get the right information about the vaccines and help us to educate the communities that you operate in, Carew told representatives of African Civil Society Organizations attending the meeting. Last week, the World Health Organization WHO said that as the COVAX facility is forced to slash planned COVID vaccine deliveries to Africa by around  million this year, the continent faces almost  million doses short of the global yearend target of fully vaccinating  percent of its population. With the cutback, COVAX is now expected to deliver  million doses to Africa this year, which will be enough to vaccinate just  percent of the population, far below the  percent target. An additional  million doses are needed to reach the endyear target even if all planned shipments via COVAX, a multilateral initiative aimed at guaranteeing global access to lifesaving COVID vaccines, and the AU are delivered, according to the WHO. As of Tuesday noon, the number of confirmed COVID cases in Africa reached ,, while the death toll from the pandemic stood at ,, according to the latest figures from the Africa Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Africa CDC.