OSHA halts vaccine rule on court stay
2021-11-18 12:46
JBS employee Luis Arellano receives his first dose of the PfizerBioNTech coronavirus disease vaccine from Kaiser Permanente medical assistant Liz Negron during a twoday vaccination clinic inside the JBS Greeley Beef plant in Greeley, Colorado, US, on March , . PhotoAgencies    The US Occupational Safety and Health Administration on Wednesday suspended its requirement that employees at companies with  or more workers be vaccinated against COVID or tested weekly by Jan , in light of a federal courts ruling. Also,  challenges to the vaccine mandate for private employers will be consolidated in the th Circuit Court of Appeals in Ohio. The Cincinnatibased court was selected Tuesday in a random drawing using pingpong balls, a process used when challenges to certain federal agency actions are filed in multiple courts. Eleven of the  fulltime judges in the th Circuit were appointed by Republican presidents, six by former president Donald Trump. On Friday, the th Circuit Court in New Orleans granted a stay in a lawsuit seeking to block the mandate filed on behalf of various companies, religious groups, private citizens and the states of Texas, Louisiana, Mississippi, South Carolina and Utah. OSHA said Wednesday it has suspended activities related to the implementation and enforcement of the requirement pending future developments in the litigation. Meanwhile, the White House announced Wednesday that it is offering funding to drug companies to expand mRNA vaccine production by  billion doses a year by the second half of . In Oklahoma, a dispute between the governor and the Pentagon over the vaccine mandate is setting up a test of the militarys authority to require National Guard troops to get immunized. Acting on an order from Republican Governor Kevin Stitt, the states adjutant general sent a memo telling troops that they arent required to get the vaccine and no negative administrative or legal action would be taken against them if they refuse. That order from Brigadier General Thomas Mancino came as Stitt asked Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin to consider suspending the mandate for Oklahoma Guard members. A senior defense official told reporters Wednesday that a governor does not have the authority to relieve Guard members of their military medical readiness requirements. Meanwhile, a surge in coronavirus cases with winter about a month away has hit at least  states, while hospitalizations also are rising in areas even with high vaccination rates. More than , Americans have died from COVID as of Wednesday, data from Johns Hopkins University shows. The states that have seen the biggest uptick in cases recently are Arizona, Arkansas, Connecticut, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Massachusetts, Michigan, Minnesota, Missouri, Nebraska, Nevada, New Hampshire, New Mexico, New York, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, Vermont and Wisconsin. Federal data show that the daily case average is now ,, a  percent increase over the past two and a half weeks, according to ABC News. Vermont, a state where  percent of the population is vaccinated against COVID, saw  percent more coronavirus cases on average over the past two weeks. The Vermont Health Department reported that there were  new coronavirus cases in the state out of a total of , on Nov . At least  people are hospitalized,  in the intensive care unit ICU. On Nov , there were  cases in Vermont, its highest case count on record. In Essex County, the leastvaccinated county in Vermont, there were , cases per , people reported from Nov  to . Grand Isle County, which has the highest vaccination rate, had . The leadership of Governor Phil Scott, the work really early on with our most vulnerable population the elderly, and the rural, less dense nature of our state helped, Tracy Dolan, former deputy commissioner for the Vermont Health Department Dolan told China Daily. The US saw its first national increase in hospitalizations this week in  weeks, ABC News reported. There were at least , patients with COVID in hospitals as of Tuesday, an increase of , patients since Nov . In Colorado,  percent of ICU beds were full as of Nov , and nonemergency surgeries were suspended to handle the crisis. In New Mexico, the sevenday rolling average of COVID cases is , per day, according to data from the state. It has risen  percent on average, over the last two weeks. Idaho, one of the nations least vaccinated states with . percent of residents  and older fully vaccinated, is among states seeing a surge in recent COVID cases. Up until Nov , it had , cases and , deaths. At least . percent of Americans age  and over are fully vaccinated against COVID. But the unvaccinated are still at a greater risk of contracting or dying from the virus, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention CDC. Several states have approved COVID booster shots for anyone age  or over in a bid to stop the surge. Louisianas health department on Wednesday recommended that anyone  and older get a booster if theyve already been vaccinated. New York City also reported a rise in coronavirus cases. The average of daily cases was , as of Sunday,  percent higher than it was two weeks ago. According to the citys website, . percent of New York City adults are fully vaccinated. New York City Health Commissioner Dr Dave Chokshi issued an advisory on Monday authorizing all adults age  and over who want to receive a booster shot are eligible, as long as they had their last dose of the Moderna or Pfizer vaccine six months ago. Crowds will once again fill New Yorks Times Square on New Years Eve, with proof of COVID vaccination required for revelers who want to watch the ball drop in person, Mayor Bill de Blasio announced Tuesday. When asked by the New York Post why a vaccine mandate applies to an outdoor event, Chokshi replied that the fact that well have such a large crowd and people will be in close quarters  anyone who spent New Years Eve in Times Square knows that its very difficult to maintain distance. The Associated Press contributed to this story.