Cuba on track to wrap up vaccination drive with homegrown vaccines
2021-09-21 17:58
A yearold boy gets a dose of the Soberana  vaccine during its clinical trials at a hospital amid concerns about the spread of the coronavirus disease COVID in Havana, Cuba, June , . PhotoAgencies    HAVANA  Cuba has entered the final stretch of its COVID immunization campaign with homegrown vaccines, while striving to develop more vaccines and assess the global use of its vaccines. The campaign is wrapping up following the governments decision to vaccinate over  million people, approximately half the population, against COVID by the end of September, including children and adolescents. Cuba expects to have more than  percent of the countrys more than  million inhabitants immunized by November, paving the way for the reopening of schools and relaxation of border control measures for incoming travelers. At present, Cuban scientists are in talks with experts from the World Health Organization to assess five Cubanmade COVID vaccines for global use. So far, the Abdala, Soberana  and Soberana Plus coronavirus vaccines have been authorized for emergency use by Cubas Center for State Control of Medicines, Equipment, and Medical Devices. According to Cuban pharmaceutical authorities announcement, the threedose Abdala vaccine is . percent effective against COVID, while the combination of two doses of Soberana  and one dose of Soberana Plus is . percent effective in preventing symptomatic COVID. Cuban scientists continue to work on the development of a Soberana  COVID vaccine and Mambisa, a nasal coronavirus vaccine candidate based on recombinant antigens. We will move forward with Soberana  and Mambisa, said Rolando Perez, director of science and innovation at BioCubaFarma, Cubas staterun biotech conglomerate gathering  research centers and  companies. These two COVID vaccines could be used as boosters if required, or exported to different countries, said Perez. Cubas government has accused the US government of using its sixdecade trade embargo against the island to block the Caribbean nations access to raw materials to produce its domestic vaccines. Despite the obstacles, more than  percent of Cubans have received at least one dose of a locally made coronavirus vaccine. The Caribbean nation has logged , confirmed cases of COVID and , deaths from the disease since the pandemic first hit the country in March .