Wall Street ends sharply lower in broad selloff
2021-09-21 05:36
NEW YORK  Wall Street fell in a broad selloff on Monday, with the SP  and Nasdaq suffering their biggest daily percentage drops since May, as fear of contagion from potential collapse of Chinas Evergrande drove investors out of equities in a flight for safety.The Nasdaq also hit its lowest level in about a month, but indexes pared losses just before the close to end well off their lows of the session. The Nasdaq was down more than  during the day.Microsoft Corp, Alphabet Inc, Amazon.com Inc, Apple Inc, Facebook Inc and Tesla Inc were among the biggest drags on the Nasdaq and the SP .All  major SP  sectors were lower, with economically sensitive groups like energy, which fell , down the most. Defensive sectors including utilities were down the least.Investors also were nervous ahead of the Federal Reserves policy meeting this week.The banking subindex dropped . while U.S. Treasury prices rose as worries about the possible default of Evergrande appeared to affect the broader market.You kind of knew that when there was something that caught markets off guard, that it was going to lead to probably a bigger selloff and you didnt know what the reason would be, said Sameer Samana, senior global market strategist at Wells Fargo Investment Institute.I guess its the China news but... its not altogether surprising given how bullish people were.Wednesday will bring the results of the Feds policy meeting, where the central bank is expected to lay the groundwork for a tapering, although the consensus is for an actual announcement to be delayed until the November or December meetings.The Dow Jones Industrial Average fell . points, or ., to ,., the SP  lost . points, or ., to ,. and the Nasdaq Composite dropped . points, or ., to ,..The Dow registered its biggest daily percentage drop since July, while the CBOE volatility index, known as Wall Streets fear gauge, rose.The SP  is now down about  from its Sept.  record high close.Strategists at Morgan Stanley said they expected a  correction in the SP  as the Fed starts to unwind its monetary support, adding that signs of stalling economic growth could deepen it to .Most airline carriers ended higher after the United States announced it will relax travel restrictions in November on passengers from China, India, Britain and many other European countries who have received COVID vaccines.Declining issues outnumbered advancing ones on the NYSE by a .to ratio on Nasdaq, a .to ratio favored decliners.The SP  posted no new week highs and three new lows the Nasdaq Composite recorded  new highs and  new lows.Volume on U.S. exchanges was . billion shares, compared with the . billion average for the full session over the last  trading days.Reuters