The orphans behind virus statistics
2021-09-18 09:52
Images of New Yorkers lost to the COVID pandemic are projected onto the Brooklyn Bridge in New York, the United States, March , .PhotoXinhua    She became an orphan once she was born. Delivered prematurely by cesarean section, the infant first lost her mother, Davy Macias, , who succumbed to COVID complications while intubatednever to see her daughter. The girls father went next. Daniel Macias, , would get only a brief glimpse of her because he was being treated in the same hospital after contracting the virus. Less than two weeks later, he also died from complications relating to COVID. The girl was left without parents and a name. Many children will grow up in the US with a similar story. Nearly , of them have lost their parents, grandparents or caregivers during the countrys COVID outbreak, according to a paper published in The Lancet in July. Aside from the now weekold girl, the Californian couple had four other children, aged , ,  and . The Macias children are now being cared for by their grandparents. Terry Macias, Daniels mother, told the CNN network that she isnt sure if the children understand that their parents are not coming home. Terry Macias also told The Washington Post that the children spend a lot of time at night looking for mom and dad. The couple are among the more than , people in the US who have died of the disease caused by the coronavirus. Davy Macias was unvaccinated because she was pregnant. Her husband also was not vaccinated, according to USA Today. Their deaths echo the story of Lydia and Lawrence Rodriguez, a Texas couple who last month died weeks apart, leaving behind four children, according to The Wall Street Journal. According to the study in The Lancet, the US ranks fourth in a list of countries with the most children orphaned by COVID deaths, behind Mexico, Brazil and India. Our study establishes minimum estimateslower boundsfor the numbers of children who lost parents andor grandparents,Juliette Unwin, the studys colead author, said in a statement. Many demographic, epidemiological, and healthcare factors suggest that the true numbers affected could be orders of magnitude larger. Millions more Low vaccination rates, she said, will result in millions of more children experiencing orphanhood. That toll is expected to worsen as the pandemic, now driven by the highly contagious Delta variant, increasingly infects unvaccinated people under age  who are most likely to have dependent children. Out of control COVID epidemics abruptly and permanently alter the lives of the children who are left behind, Seth Flaxman, one of The Lancet studys authors, said in a statement. These children, he said, will grow up profoundly damaged by the experience. There are also racial disparities involved. In April, researchers reported in the JAMA Pediatrics journal that while black children constitute about  percent of this nations population under , they make up  percent of all children whove lost a parent to COVID. Children losing primary caregivers have higher risks of experiencing mental health problems physical, emotional, and sexual violence and family poverty, says the research team at The Lancet. These adverse experiences raise risks of suicide, adolescent pregnancy, infectious diseases including HIVAIDS, and chronic diseases. There is an urgent need to prioritize these children and support them for many years into the future, said Susan Hillis of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, or CDC, who led the study. Support for a grieving child can take several forms, including individual counseling and camps or group programs. The National Alliance for Grieving Children provides resources and a regional directory for helping children deal with loss. Public health responses to the pandemic, such as stayathome orders and the constraints of conducting child protection evaluations remotely, have severely reduced the capacity of established child protection systems and services to provide muchneeded child safety interventions and support, the study says. The timing of providing the aid is crucial, according to psychologist Kathryn Cullen, who wrote in a  editorial in The American Journal of Psychiatry that the first two years after losing a parent is a period of critical risk for developing depression, according to Forbes. The CDC in early August urged all pregnant women to get a COVID vaccine, as hospitals in US hot spots saw a rise in the number of unvaccinated motherstobe seriously ill with the virus.