How CPC unites people to respond to COVID, eradicate poverty Pakistani analyst
2021-11-18 10:47
Muhammad Zamir Assadi, Special Correspondent of the Independent Pakistan News Agency, accepted an online interview with iChongqing. PhotoMuhammad Zamir Assadi    The fight against the COVID pandemic, the eradication of poverty, and the achievement of moderate prosperity through preventing pollution  all of these have demonstrated the strong resilience of the Chinese economy, according to a Pakistani special correspondent. Active response to the COVID pandemic While China has made strides toward controlling the outbreak, the country has dispatched its medical teams to various countries and shared their unique medical experiences regarding the treatment of COVID, making an indelible contribution to saving human lives, said Muhammad Zamir Assadi, special correspondent of the Independent Pakistan News Agency. Under the leadership of the CPC, I saw they united Chinese people and connected all of the departments within no time to respond to this health challenge, said Assadi. Chinas comprehensive containment measures, including mass testing, isolation of confirmed and suspected patients, lockdowns of highrisk areas and vaccination, have proved to be very effective. With the most complete industrial system in the world and unmatched production capacity, China organized the production of medical materials in an orderly and effective way, which meets the urgent needs of China and the need for epidemic prevention of all countries in the world. I think all of the measures adopted by Chinese governments not only had controlled this pandemic but also advised the way is to tackle similar kinds of outbreaks in the future, said Assadi. Poverty alleviation experience to the world I think Chinas plan for poverty alleviation has put forward the development goals of the rural industry to achieve, said Assadi. The implementation of modern agricultural technologies for the farmers has revitalized the growth and the production of farming in various areas of China. The Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Affairs has been focusing on improving rural industries, including the agricultural product processing industry, for more job opportunities in rural China. Innovative technology is introduced in remote areas in China, allowing for better productivity and connectivity with the markets, said Assadi. The story of the poverty alleviation of china, I think it is not only the success of China, but it is the success of the deprived people around the globe. Over the years, China has assisted  countries in Africa, Asia, Latin America, the Caribbean and Oceania in constructing farms, agricultural technology demonstration centers, and other projects, Xinhua reports. Official statistics show that China has managed to lift over  million people out of poverty in the past seven decades, which accounts for more than  percent of global poverty alleviation, setting a record in human history. Furthermore, a white paper titled Poverty Alleviation Chinas Experience and Contribution was issued this April, with a target of recording the course of the Chinese peoples great fight in eliminating extreme poverty, introducing Chinas approach, and sharing its experience and actions in poverty alleviation to the world. Ecological environment to drive the economy It has emphasized on many occasions that achieving moderate prosperity in all respects is contingent on the quality of the ecological environment. Assadi believes the issue of the Yangtze River Protection Law this March, which bans the carriage of a range of highly toxic and dangerous chemicals in the Yangtze River Basin, not only symbolizes the first law governing a major river valley of China but also suggests the rulebased planning, environment protection and green development of the whole Yangtze River Basin. Yangtze River is known as the mother river in China and it is a kind of a river that has helped China in the growth of economic activities, producing a bundle of opportunities for the local people in China, said Assadi. According to the Ministry of Ecology and Environment, it is estimated that, through great protection and upgrading development, the Yangtze River Basin will account for over half of Chinas economy by , or by  at the latest. It will also serve as the vanguard and model for the whole country to meet its ambitious goal of becoming a mediumdeveloped economy by . CPEC to expand the scope of cooperation In , Pakistan and China reached an understanding to develop the ChinaPakistan Economic Corridor CPEC, a part of Chinas Belt and Road Initiative, which is a ,kilometer linkage of roads, pipelines, and railways to transport goods from Gwadar port in Pakistan to Kashgar in the Xinjiang Uygur autonomous region of China. Pakistan has long been suffering from power outages, said Assadi. He thinks CPEC helped overcome a variety of issues in Pakistan, including the energy crisis and other issues such as unemployment and the underdevelopment of national infrastructure. I see China showed the full confidence to Pakistan, working on the industrialization sector, said Assadi. In the future, I think Pakistan will aim to further expand the scope of cooperation with China in various fields, including education, culture, agriculture, and science and technology.