London will park traffic light system say reports
2021-09-17 09:12
A woman rides a bike in London, Britain, May , . PhotoAgencies    The United Kingdoms travel traffic light system is reportedly due to be updated this week with officials reportedly planning new rules based on the vaccination status of travelers rather than the COVID rating of the country they are visiting. A simplified system would mean amber and green would disappear as separate risk categories, although red would continue with travelers still required to quarantine in hotels on returning from highrisk destinations, British media reported on Thursday. When the traffic light system was originally unveiled, the government promised to review it by Oct a date that coincides with the completion of the vaccination rollout, with all adults aged  and older due to have been offered both their jabs by the end of this month. Earlier this week, at a Downing Street news briefing, Prime Minister Boris Johnson said that the government is considering what it could do to make the burdens of testing less onerous for those who are coming back into the country. In the same briefing, the health secretary, Sajid Javid, said that more expensive PCR tests, required on the second and eighth day after arrival in the UK, could be dropped for cheaper rapid tests for doublejabbed passengers. Those who have not had both doses of the vaccine would still be required to selfisolate or take the tests under any change to the rules, a source told the Financial Times. Currently, travelers also have to take a predeparture lateral flow test up to  hours before boarding UKbound flights and ferries. Javid suggested these may no longer be needed. Javid said the new rules will be announced by Transport Secretary Grant Shapps as soon as he is ready. The UK tourism sector has always objected to the complicated arrangements, which it says have discouraged inbound and outbound travel. Paul Charles, an adviser to several travel companies, told the Financial Times that the current system needed to be changed in order to revive confidence in booking travel. People have been most worried about the predeparture test, he said. An airline executive told the finance paper that the industry would struggle to recover until the complexity and inconvenience of testing requirements for vaccinated passengers was removed completely. In the same briefing, Johnson said that decisions on travel policy were guided by protecting public health. He said I appreciate that people are very frustrated about the travel rules but its vital that we do whatever we can to stop the virus being reimported and particularly to control new variants when theyre at risk of coming in. Thats why we have the rules. I know travelers have been frustrated this summer ... but its reasonable to ask people to do that to help protect the population.