Germans believe nations best days gone
2021-09-17 09:06
People queue in the street in Ehrenfeld suburb to get a COVID vaccination in the Central Mosque, amid the coronavirus disease COVID pandemic, in Cologne, Germany, May , . PhotoAgencies    Despite Germanys status as an aspirational destination among record numbers of economic migrants and refugees, most Germans do not have a rosetinted view of their nation, according to a new poll. In fact, the survey conducted by the European Council on Foreign Relations, or ECFR, found  percent of Germans actually think their countrys golden age is over. And, the think tank found, most believe their nations role as Europes leading economy and political force will diminish further with the retirement of longtime national leader Angela Merkel on Sept . The pollsters say Germanys stable economic growth and low unemployment rate during the past two decades led many citizens in fellow European Union nations to look to Germany for leadership. But the ECFR found more than a third of nonGerman EU citizens also sense Germanys best days are behind it. If many Europeans believe Germanys star is fading, this could undermine their trust in Berlin, the report said. It noted the days when Europe could look to the US for leadership and protection have now gone, which points to a potential leadership vacuum in Europe. These findings suggest that, while Angela Merkel has cemented Germanys position as a great European power, the cornerstones of her legacyneutrality and consensusbuildingwill not be enough to defend the unity of the EU, and its place in the world, in the years to come, the report says. The ECFR says in Beyond Merkelism What Europeans Expect from PostElection Germany that Europeans do, however, have a soft spot for Merkel and would like to see her lead the bloc one day. But, with Germans heading for the polls on Sept  for a federal election that will select a new national leader, Jana Puglierin, a coauthor and senior policy fellow at the ECFR, told the Daily Telegraph people will have to wait to see how the nations relationship with the EU evolves. The approach of putting EU cohesion above all else, which has shaped much of the EUs policy agenda during the Merkel era, could prove a tempting and immediate pathway for her successor, Puglierin said. However, in the face of international crises, and domestic concerns about Germanys role within the EU, a strategy of more of the same is unlikely to hold. The United States business news television channel CNBC said Germanys power and influence during Merkels tenure was indisputable but that, at the end of her  years in charge, the future is uncertain. And, with only  percent of Germans believing the nations best years are yet to come, it is difficult to predict what a postMerkel Germany and postMerkel EU will be like. Piotr Buras, coauthor of the report, said Merkel adroitly maintained the status quo across the EU throughout her time in office, but new challenges, including the pandemic, climate change, and geopolitical competition, require radical solutions. What the EU needs now is a visionary Germany that will stand up for the blocs values and defend its place in the world, Buras added.