Digital divide seen narrowing nationwide
2021-09-16 10:19
Resident in Xiangyang, Hubei province, show his health code as worker takes his temperature in March. PhotoXinhua    Internet use grew rapidly among older people during last years COVID outbreak, but an urbanrural divide still remains, according to a recent report. The th Statistical Report on Chinas Internet Development said people age  and older accounted for . percent of Chinas fastgrowing number of internet users in December, up from . percent in March last year. The report was released in February by the China Internet Network Information Center in Beijing, which oversees the registration of domain names. The rise came alongside an epidemicinduced drive to move many services online to reduce personal contact at brickandmortar agencies. The official embrace of digital technology to trace close contacts and check vaccination status has also widened the appeal of smartphones among people who didnt previously use the devices. The report said about . million Chinese started using the internet between March and December last year, when epidemic control became a mainstay of everyday life after the domestic outbreak of COVID had largely been contained. That brought the number of netizens to  million, compared with just  million a decade ago. The report noted that during the outbreak, about  million Chinese applied for a health codea digital pass that indicates the holders risk of infection based on their travel historywhich is widely demanded upon entry to residential compounds and shopping malls. Some  million people consulted doctors online as they attempted to avoid visiting hospitals, which were deemed risky venues at the height of the epidemic, it added. Underpinning the digitization drive is the countrys rapidly expanding internet coverage and the popularization of smartphones. A white paper released by the State Council Information Office this month showed that overall internet coverage has reached . percent of Chinas . billion population. It said smartphone ownership for every  people was ., meaning that each person owns more than one device on average. In recent years, central authorities have worked to bolster the digital infrastructure in lessdeveloped rural regions as part of a broader effort to boost ecommerce and curb poverty. That narrowed the ruralurban gap in internet access. The information centers report said that by the end of last year, internet coverage in urban areas was . percent, compared with . percent in the countryside. The gap narrowed by . percentage points during the period from March to December last year, and the expanding coverage in rural regions has translated into faster growth of internet users. By the end of last year, China had  million rural internet users, up by about  million from March last year. By contrast, the number of urban netizens rose by just  million to  million. Despite the progress, the report noted that rural netizens still account for less than onethird of internet users overall. In addition, about  percent of Chinas  million nonnetizensdefined as individuals age  and older who havent used the internet for more than six monthsare spread across the rural areas. The figure is disproportionally high, given that rural residents account for just  percent of the national population, the report said. Older people in both rural and urban areas lag behind other age groups in embracing cyberspace, the report said. Those age  and older account for nearly half the total number of nonnetizens, it said, adding that inadequate internet skills, education level, age and nonownership of smartphones are to blame. The divide is expected to have wideranging implications, because nonnetizens cannot reap the benefits of smart services in travel, consumption, health services and handling daily affairs, such as paying utility bills, it said.