Bangladesh PM eyes  mln Chinese vaccines in next three months
2021-09-16 09:41
Bangladeshi Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina poses with the book titled Amar Dekha Naya Chin The New China as I Saw at the inaugural ceremony of the countrys largest annual book fair in Dhaka, Bangladesh, on Feb , .PhotoXinhua    DHAKA  Bangladeshi Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina said Wednesday her government is expecting to receive  million doses of Chinese COVID vaccines in the next three months. She made the remark while replying to a tabled question from a lawmaker during the prime ministers questionanswer session in the parliament. In line with a schedule given by Sinopharm, she said, A total of  million vaccines doses   million doses each month  will be available in the country from China till December from next month. According to the premier, ,, vaccine jabs have so far been collected through bilateral arrangements and initiatives under COVAX. She said there is a plan to vaccinate  percent of Bangladeshs population including students aged  and above under the vaccination coverage. Meanwhile, she mentioned that the physically challenged people will also be brought under the vaccination coverage. Currently, Hasina said the age limit has been reduced to  and steps are underway to bring all students of  years and above under vaccination coverage. Hasina said her government is trying to collect at least  million or more doses of vaccines every month to keep the ongoing vaccination drives unhampered. Also, Bangladeshi Foreign Minister AK Abdul Momen Wednesday said they expect  million vaccine doses by April next year under the COVAX facility, as gifts and from other sources. Bangladeshs vaccination drive is now running smoothly in capital Dhaka and elsewhere thanks largely to Chinas continued support. To fight against the alarming spike in COVID cases, Bangladesh has signed an agreement on the coproduction of the Chinese vaccines locally. The memorandum of understanding MoU was signed between Chinas Sinopharm Group, Bangladeshs Ministry of Health and Family Welfare and Incepta Vaccine Ltd., a local vaccine manufacturing company last month. Bangladesh began the COVID vaccination drive in January to contain the pandemic that has spread across the country. Amid uncertainty over the timely arrival of vaccine shipment from India, the Bangladeshi government later halted administering the first doses of the AstraZeneca vaccine. In June, the vaccination drive resumed in some parts of the country with the Chinadonated Sinopharm vaccines.