Vaccination efforts geared up in US as COVID kills  in  Americans
2021-09-16 09:17
ourists visit the National Mall in Washington, DC, the United States, on Aug , .PhotoXinhua    NEW YORK  The federal government of the United States is commanding a strong gear for its COVID vaccination efforts with new vaccine approval planned and extra pressure exerted on the countrys top businesses and incoming immigrants, as the pandemic has killed roughly one in every  Americans. U.S. President Joe Biden is expected to meet on Wednesday with executives from companies including Walt Disney Co., Microsoft Corp. and Walgreens Boots Alliance Inc. to advance his COVID vaccination requirements for the private sector. The White House meeting comes after a plan Biden announced last week designed to bring the pandemic under control, which includes vaccine requirements affecting roughly  million workers. Attendees are expected to discuss how they are expanding requirements at their companies and institutions and how mandates have driven up vaccinations among employees. ANOTHER GRIM MILESTONE According to Johns Hopkins University data, as of Tuesday night, , people in the United States have died of COVID. Per the U.S. Census Bureau, the countrys population as of April  was . million. This meant that roughly one in  Americans have died from coronavirus since the nations first reported infection, another grim milestone in its fight against the devastating COVID pandemic, reported CNN on Wednesday. Meanwhile, according to The New York Times, the day average of confirmed cases of the pandemic stood at , nationwide on Tuesday, with its day change striking a percent fall. COVIDrelated deaths were , on Tuesday, with the day change realizing a percent rise. COVID deaths and cases in the United States have climbed to levels not seen since last winter, wiping out months of progress and potentially bolstering President Bidens argument for sweeping new vaccination requirements, reported ABC late Tuesday. Fifty four percent of U.S. adults said the worst of the outbreak is still to come, despite widespread vaccination efforts, according to a Pew Research Center report based on a survey of , U.S. adults conducted from Aug.  to , which was released on Wednesday. VACCINES FOR SMALL CHILDREN Pfizer and BioNTech plan to file for Food and Drug Administration FDA emergency authorization in November for their COVID vaccine for children younger than , Pfizer Chief Financial Officer Frank DAmelio said on Tuesday. The company expects to have data for the  to  age group by the end of September, while data for the even younger group is expected later in October, DAmelio added. The FDA is under pressure to authorize a vaccine for children younger than , as many parents say they are anxious to get their children vaccinated as schools reopen and the highly contagious delta variant continues to spread. Studies for the Pfizer vaccine in children ages  to  are ready for review, according to the FDA. Pediatrician Pia Fenimore in Lancaster County, Pennsylvania, said that meant the vaccine could be ready sooner than expected, possibly in mid to late October. A lot of people were willing to volunteer their child for these studies, so we were able to get the numbers of children in these studies faster than we thought we would, NBC on Tuesday quoted her as saying. MORE VACCINATIONS The abovementioned Pew report also found that  percent of those aged  and older say theyve received at least one dose of a vaccine for COVID. About a quarter of adults say they have not received a vaccine. Some of the lowest vaccination rates are seen among those with no health insurance and white evangelical Protestants  percent each as well as among Republicans and Republican leaners  percent, per the report. In another development, the United States will require new immigrants to be fully vaccinated against the coronavirus as part of its routine medical examination, U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services USCIS announced on Tuesday. The measure goes into effect on Oct. . Most people applying to become a permanent resident in the United States are required to receive the immigration medical examination to show they are free from any conditions that would render them inadmissible under the healthrelated grounds, according to USCIS. The coronavirus vaccination requirement follows updated guidance from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, USCIS said. Exceptions to the requirement will be allowed for medical conditions, if there is a lack of vaccine supply or if the vaccine is not ageappropriate for the immigration applicant, USCIS said. Religious or moral convictions exemptions may be requested on a casebycase basis.