Quads mentality at odds with regional values China Daily editorial
2021-09-15 19:54
Photo taken on Jan ,  shows the US Capitol building in Washington, D.C., the United States.PhotoXinhua    US President Joe Biden and the visiting prime ministers of Australia, India and Japan are scheduled to meet in the White House on Sept  at what will be the first inperson summit of the leaders of the socalled Quad countries. According to the White House, their discussions will be focused on deepening our ties and advancing practical cooperation on areas such as combating COVID, addressing the climate crisis, partnering on emerging technologies and cyberspace, and promoting a free and open IndoPacific. There is nothing wrong with countries seeking to improve their relations, let alone collaborating on global concerns such as the pandemic and the gathering storm of climate change, which are difficult to address without concerted international efforts. But given the four governments respective troubles at home at the moment, it remains to be seen whether next weeks summit will produce the degree of decisive commitments on vaccine diplomacy and infrastructure, Kurt Campbell, Bidens IndoPacific coordinator, forecast in July. Even if it does, such commitments will not deliver the kind of benefits that international cooperation in the normal sense does. After all, the Quad exists for the sole purpose of countering what the four governments perceive as Chinas negative influence. For everything on their agenda, from climate change to vaccines to infrastructure, they have pinned a target on Chinas back. They want to offset Chinas leadership role in the global climate response, the influence Chinas vaccine exports have earned it, the popularity of the Chinaproposed Belt and Road Initiative for infrastructure building and to suppress what they allege is Chinas technology theft and threat in cyberspace. Indeed, the rationale for the formation of the Quad was to push back against an allegedly increasingly assertive China, which Beijing insists is a serious misjudgment of Chinas development. That is why State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi, during his visit to Singapore on Tuesday, urged Washington to view Chinas development in an objective and rational way. The only way out of the present ChinaUS deadlock, Wang said, is for the US to respect Chinas right to development and find ways to cooperate. Yet the misgivings and anxieties of the Quad countries run so deep and so broad that there is no sign of that happening any time soon. According to the Japanese Foreign Ministry, that Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga will attend the summit six days before the end of his office shows his countrys position on the importance of the JapanUS alliance or achieving a free and open IndoPacific is consistent, whoever becomes the next party leader or prime minister. It is Chinas, and other regional countries, consistent belief that any regional cooperation mechanism should help promote mutual trust and cooperation among regional countries rather than be a closed and exclusive clique like the Quad, which threatens the rulesbased peace and stability of the region.