Party race in Japan thins out, reports say
2021-09-15 11:15
Shigeru Ishiba attends a debate for the LDP leadership election in Tokyo, Japan Sept , . PhotoAgencies    Shigeru Ishiba, the former secretarygeneral of Japans ruling Liberal Democratic Party, will not run in the partys upcoming leadership race, reported local media on Tuesday. He had been considered a leading candidate to replace outgoing Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga. Ishiba is leaning toward backing Taro Kono, the minister in charge of Japans vaccination drive, instead. The reports came a day after Kono visited Ishibas office to ask for his support. According to public broadcaster NHK, Ishiba is set to announce the decision at a meeting on Wednesday. Ishiba, who has made four attempts at becoming LDPs leader, has quit because some allies saw his chances of winning as slim and urged him to sit it out, reported Kyodo News. The race to replace Suga opened unexpectedly and went through many twists and turns in the past two weeks after the prime minister chose to end his bid for reelection amid mounting criticism over his handling of the COVID crisis. As a divisive figure who had won popularity among the LDPs grassroot members, Ishiba was the number  favorite to succeed Suga in several opinion polls. However, the LDP presidential election now appears to be a threeway contest among Kono, former foreign minister Fumio Kishida and former communications minister Sanae Takaichi. The election will be held on Sept . Ishibas decision will likely tip in Konos favor, as he is already topping polls as the publics favorite for the countrys next prime minister. With Ishibas support, the LDP is also likely to collect more votes as it seeks to install a popular leader ahead of a general election that will take place no later than Nov . Kono regularly leads voter polls on who should succeed Suga, with one by Kyodo showing that he was chosen by . percent of respondents, while . percent chose Ishiba and . percent went for Kishida. While serving as minister in both the foreign and defense ministries, Kono has built a reputation as an able and savvy communicator through frequent, and unusually blunt, news conferences as well as having a strong social media presence, both unusual in Japans staid and scripted political world. Campaigning for the LDP presidential election begins on Friday, with LDP lawmakers in both houses of parliament and rankandfile members holding a total of  votes. Given the LDPs majority in Japans parliament, its new leader will also serve as Japans next prime minister. Agencies contributed to this story.