US COVID mandate plan wins support, doctor presses for childrens vaccines
2021-09-15 09:43
A teenager receives a dose of the PfizerBioNTech vaccine for the coronavirus disease COVID at Northwell Healths Cohen Childrens Medical Centerin New Hyde Park, New York, US, May , . PhotoIC    NEW YORK  The US federal governments latest COVID vaccination mandates have won support in a recent poll and the countrys top pediatrician has called for medical agencies to accelerate approval of vaccines for children, as the pandemics Delta variant keeps on victimizing unvaccinated Americans. A PoliticoMorning Consult poll of , registered voters conducted from Sept  to  found that  percent of respondents support the federal requirement that employers mandate the COVID vaccine or weekly testing, with  percent who strongly support it and  percent who somewhat support it. Nine percent of respondents somewhat oppose it and  percent strongly oppose it. Support was more divided along partisan lines. Among Democratic and Democraticleaning voters polled,  percent said they either strongly or somewhat support the plan, while  percent of Republican or Republicanleaning voters polled said they strongly or somewhat support it. The poll also found similar overall support for other vaccine requirements included in the sixpart plan. Fiftyseven percent of respondents said they strongly or somewhat support the requirement for federal employees and contractors to get a COVID vaccine without an option to opt out through regular testing. The White House announced last week that the Department of Labors Occupational Safety and Health Administration, or OSHA, is creating a rule that will require all companies with at least  workers to mandate COVID vaccination or weekly testing for their employees before they can come to work. The plan is part of US President Joe Bidens sweeping strategy to combat the virus in the United States. His strategy also includes a COVID vaccine mandate for all federal employees and millions of contractors that do business with the federal government and for millions of health care workers. In a letter recently written to the US Food and Drug Administration FDA, Lee Beers, president of the American Academy of Pediatrics AAP, has called on the agency to pick up the pace in approving COVID vaccines for children. If after two months of data, it looks like its a viable vaccine for kids, lets approve it, vs. the six months that they seem to want, the Public Broadcasting Service PBS on Monday quoted Beers as saying. And so, in our mind, actually, we have always thought that the vaccine is a really important tool in the toolbox to keep our youngest kids healthy. But now its really getting particularly acute and particularly urgent, she added. The US administration rolled out new mandates last week to expand vaccination for over  million more Americans, but questions remain about when one major population ineligible for the shot, the  million US children under the age of , will be able to get it. With the Delta variant raging, almost five times as many US children are being hospitalized for COVID, according to the AAP. The sevenday average of daily COVID cases was about , as of Sept , according to data compiled by Johns Hopkins University. That figure was down  percent over the past week and  percent from the mostrecent peak in case counts on Sept , when the country was reporting an average of roughly , cases per day. This is good news, Arturo Casadevall, chair of molecular microbiology and immunology at the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health, was quoted on Monday by CNBC as saying. It could represent that we have reached a peak and we are now on the way down. The United States has seen several swings in daily COVID cases since the pandemic started. Average daily cases topped out at about , in April  before subsiding. They then surged and peaked at , by July . The pace of new cases fell after Labor Day  before surging to a record high of , cases per day in January. There was also a steep dropoff after the holidays, followed with another jump to about , cases per day this past April. Every epidemic goes through cycles and eventually wanes, and that happens when you have enough people who are resistant, said Casadevall, adding that the combination of vaccinations and high number of infections this summer could be helping the country turn a corner. Meanwhile, according to The New York Times, the day average of confirmed cases of the pandemic stood at , nationwide on Monday, with its day change striking an percent rise. COVIDrelated deaths were , on Monday, with the day change realizing a percent rise.