Resistance to vaccine mandate mounts in US
2021-09-14 10:42
People raise signs to protest against the coronavirus disease COVID vaccine mandates at Summa Health Hospital in Akron, Ohio, US, Aug , . PhotoAgencies    US President Joe Bidens sweeping vaccine mandate is running into ever more resistance from Republicans and other critics, including those who say the more aggressive approach from the White House could harden attitudes against COVID vaccinations. Asa Hutchinson, the Republican governor of Arkansas, said on NBCs Meet the Press on Sunday that the presidents order to make the vaccinations or weekly negative tests compulsory for businesses with more than  employees was an unprecedented assumption of federal mandate authority. Other Republican governors, including Ron DeSantis of Florida and Greg Abbott of Texas, have threatened to sue the federal government, arguing that the Democratic president was acting outside the US Constitution when he imposed the mandate. On Thursday, Biden announced a policy that mandates vaccinations for federal employees, with no option for regular testing, in addition to the same requirement for businesses with at least  workers. Staff at healthcare facilities that get government funding also have to be fully vaccinated. Perhaps a key reason for the stiffening resistance to the mandatesaside from their impact on about  million more US citizensis the hectoring tone that Biden took in an address in which he said he would get obstructionist state governors out of the way. If those governors wont help us beat the pandemic, Ill use my power as president to get them out of the way, he said. Bidens defiant stance came amid declining approval ratings, mostly driven by the chaotic withdrawal and winddown of the year US military presence in Afghanistan, capped by the deaths of  US service members in a suicide bombing at Kabuls airport on Aug . As of Sunday, there were nearly  million coronavirus cases in the US since March , when the pandemic began in earnest, according to the Johns Hopkins Coronavirus Resource Center. The number of COVID deaths is approaching ,. The countrys infections and fatalities are the highest in the world and have risen over the past few months, with the contagious Delta variant cited as the main reason. The rising numbers have heightened concerns about the safety of schools. Safety of schools New York Citys public schools, with about . million students, were returning to providing fulltime inperson learning on Monday after the pandemic forced children to learn remotely. All systems are go for a safe reopening, according to Mayor Bill de Blasio. This is going to be one of those gamechanger days, one of these days that well remember when we turn the corner on COVID, he said last week. The return to school comes as the Delta variant accounts for  percent of positive COVID samples tested in New York, according to the city. New York Governor Kathy Hochul has directed the states Health Department to institute a universal mask requirement in all schools. But District Council , the citys largest publicemployee union, with , members and , retirees, filed an unfair labor practices complaint on Aug  against the city over the mandate. Belinda Robinson in New York contributed to this story.