Ensure safe and sound travel rebound China Daily editorial
2021-09-13 20:11
Tourists wearing masks take selfies in a field in Baofeng county, Central Chinas Henan province, in last year. PhotoXinhua    The latest round of COVID outbreak in Fujian province, with a total of  locally transmitted cases having been detected in Putian and neighboring Quanzhou and Xiamen by Monday afternoon since Friday, has once again rung the alarm bell for the countrys pandemic prevention and control work. The approaching MidAutumn Festival, which falls on Sept , and the National Day Golden Week holiday that starts on Oct , make the task even more challenging as the holidays are likely to see a marked increase in the number of people hitting the road. The government now faces the pressing task of making the best use of the peaktravel season to reinvigorate the tourism sector, which has been badly hit by the COVID pandemic, while at the same time ensuring that the novel coronavirus is confined to the few high risk areas in the country, including Putian. Peoples enthusiasm for travel remains high. There is undoubtedly a great deal of pentup demand for travel. Given that China has largely contained the spread of the virus, with only sporadic locally transmitted cases reported as a result of its effective prevention and control measures, interprovince travel is set to bounce back. Popular travel booking platform Ctrip said that its interprovince orders surged by more than four times on Sept  compared with Aug . While the upcoming holiday travel season is an opportunity that the tourism sector will be hoping to make the most of, it will also serve as a touchstone for the governance capabilities of officials, who must balance economic recovery with the pandemic prevention and control work. The country recently announced that it had administered . billion doses of vaccines, with around  billion people, or  percent of its total population, fully vaccinated, which it is hoped will establish an effective firewall against any future wave of the virus. Allowing the tourism sector to fully reopen does not mean any letup in vigilance against the virus. Rather it sets even higher requirements on officials and enterprises in the tourism sector. Meticulous efforts are needed to ensure the early risk alert system functions effectively, ticket reservation and crowd flow restrictions are in place and observed, as well as close coordination among the transport and public security authorities, among other measures. China has gained lots of experience in the fight against the pandemic and has shown it is capable of nipping outbreaks in the bud, which instills confidence that the authorities will soon bring the situation in Fujian under control. Nonetheless, everyone must be on high alert to any signs of danger during the holidays.