Brunei receives second batch of Sinopharm vaccine donation from China
2021-09-13 14:30
Yu Hong L, Chinese ambassador to Brunei, and Haji Erywan, Bruneis second minister of foreign affairs, attend the handover ceremony of Sinopharm COVID vaccines at Brunei International Airport, Brunei, Sept , . PhotoXinhua    BANDAR SERI BEGAWAN  A total of , doses of Sinopharm vaccine contributed by the Chinese government to Brunei arrived at Brunei International Airport on Sunday midnight. A handover ceremony was held at the airport, attended by Haji Erywan, Bruneis second minister of foreign affairs on behalf of the Brunei government and Yu Hong, Chinese ambassador to Brunei, representing the Chinese government. Also in attendance were senior government officials from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs MFA, the Ministry of Health of Brunei and representatives from the Chinese embassy in the country. Since last year, in the face of the COVID pandemic, China and Brunei have worked hand in hand, speaking volumes about the Kampong spirit of sharing weal and woe, Yu Hong said at the airport. The pragmatic cooperation in various fields between our two countries and the friendship between our two peoples have been deepened and advanced in the course of antipandemic cooperation, she added. Since , Brunei and China have extended mutual assistance in addressing the COVID pandemic. Brunei provided financial assistance to help China manage the impact of the pandemic in March . This latest contribution represents the second batch of vaccines received from China. The first batch of vaccines consisting , doses of Sinopharm were received in February , a MFA press statement stated. This year marks the th Anniversary of the Establishment of Diplomatic Relations, which is a significant milestone for Brunei and China relations, according to the statement. As Strategic Cooperative Partners, both countries have continued to strengthen cooperation in trade and investment, energy, agriculture and fisheries, connectivity, tourism, health, defense and peopletopeople exchanges. Brunei and China have also maintained close cooperation on regional and international issues of mutual concern.