New York City schools reopen Monday
2021-09-13 10:39
LR Principal Alice Hom talks with teachers Samantha Ng, Melissa Moy, Pauline Tsang and Jennifer Lee in a classroom at Yung Wing School P.S.  on September ,  in New York City.PhotoAgencies    New York Citys public schools, the largest school system in the United States with about . million students, will return to fulltime inperson learning on Monday after the coronavirus pandemic forced children to learn remotely from crowded classrooms. All systems are go for a safe reopening, according to Mayor Bill de Blasio. This is going to be one of those gamechanger days, one of these days that well remember when we turn the corner on COVID, he said last week. De Blasio believes that putting children back in the classroom will be the key to the citys resurgence and will help parents return to work. The return to school comes as the Delta variant accounts for  percent of all positive COVID samples tested in New York, according to the city. New York Governor Kathy Hochul has directed the states Health Department to institute a universal mask requirement in all schools, public and private. My number one priority is getting children back to school and protecting the environment so they can learn safely, she said. At least , public schools in the city will hold inperson classes five days a week. Only children with weakened immune systems or a chronic illness about , will be eligible to work from home, de Blasio said. All , employees of the citys Education Department will be required to receive at least one dose of a COVID vaccine by Sept . Meisha Porter, New York City schools chancellor, said she expected compliance from school staff. At least  percent of all the citys teachers are already vaccinated. Teachers who arent vaccinated must have weekly testing for COVID. The mayor said last month that any educator who didnt comply with the vaccination or testing requirement would be suspended without pay. But District Council , the citys largest publicemployee union, with , members and , retirees, filed an unfair labor practices complaint on Aug  against the city over the mandate. Executive Director Henry Garrido said in a statement While we strongly encourage our members to get vaccinated, we do not believe that the city has the legal authority to change the terms and conditions of employment without bargaining. Michael Mulgrew, president of the United Federation of Teachers praised New Yorks school teachers overall willingness to comply with vaccine and mask mandates. They will have to wear them on all school property and school buses. They can only be removed to eat. The citys plans for masking, ventilation, social distancing and testing protocols will help keep students and staff safe this year, he said in a statement. Safety protocols of the citys Education Department will mean that each day, students and staff must fill out a form that states, they are not experiencing any symptoms of COVID, have not recently tested positive, and are not currently required to quarantine based. All classrooms will be required to have two air filters. They will also have hand sanitizers. At least  percent of New York Citys children aged  and over have been vaccinated. There is no vaccine mandate for children under  as they arent yet eligible for vaccination. Hochul said New York City has received  million in federal funding to initiate COVID testing in schools and the state has received a total of  million in federal funding to support testing programs. The city plans to issue a COVID test to a random sample of  percent of unvaccinated people in schools twice a month. Vaccinated students and staff wont participate. All children in elementary school will be tested for COVID with their parents consent. Unvaccinated middle and high school students will also be tested. If someone tests positive, only unvaccinated students in close proximity to them will be required to undergo quarantine for  days to limit school closures. If they test negative within five days, they can stop quarantining early. If the virus spreads in a school building it will be required to close for  days only if there is widespread transmission. Principals must ensure that children stay three feet apart where possible. Michael Cordiello, president of the union which represents more than half of school bus drivers, warned that there was a worker shortage due to coronavirus and many drivers retiring. But the Education Department said the city will have enough school bus drivers when school starts.