Laos deputy prime minister and Chinese CEOs discuss investment opportunities
2021-09-11 11:13
The RoundTable Dialogue between Lao Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Planning and Investment Sonexay Siphandone and CEOs from China takes place in Nanning, South Chinas Guangxi Zhuang autonomous region, on Sept , . Photo provided to chinadaily.com.cn    A roundtable dialogue between Laos Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Planning and Investment Sonexay Siphandone and CEOs from China was held in Nanning, South Chinas Guangxi Zhuang autonomous region, on Friday. The talk has provided an important platform for both investment cooperation between Laos and China and exchanges between Chinesefunded enterprises and Lao leaders, said Laos Ambassador to China Khamphao Ernthavanh. In , Chinese companies direct investment to Laos reached . billion, a yearonyear increase of . percent, said Gao Yan, chairperson of China Council for the Promotion of International Trade. From January to June this year, the bilateral trade volume between the two countries hit . billion, a yearonyear increase of . percent, Gao said. Since ,  roundtable dialogues have been held between state leaders from Southeast Asian countries and CEOs from China, boosting bilateral investment cooperation, trade, and exchanges between China and ASEAN countries, said Lan Tianli, governor of Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region. The region hopes to take the opportunities provided by the dialogue to further deepen its cooperation with Laos, promote the connectivity of infrastructure, and jointly build the New International LandSea Trade Corridor, to better serve the ChinaASEAN community with a shared future, Lan said at the meeting. China is the largest foreign investor in Laos, undertaking a total of  projects worth more than  billion between  and July , said Siphandone, adding that the meeting will help attract more Chinesefunded enterprises to invest in Laos. On behalf of the Lao government, Siphandone also expressed his thanks to the Chinese government for offering medical assistance, including offering equipment and vaccines against COVID, to his country for free in a timely and efficient manner. Discussions also were held between Siphandone and heads of China Southern Power Grid China Datang Corporation ChinaASEAN Information Harbor Co China State Construction Engineering Corporation and China Railway International Co on investment policy introduction, investment intention exchanges, promoting cooperation projects worth more than . billion in fields such as infrastructure construction, power, and digital economy. Themed Sharing New Opportunities in Development, Seeking New Achievements in Cooperation, the event was hosted by CCPIT, Peoples Government of Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region, and Lao Ministry of Planning and Investment. This year marks the th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic ties between Laos and China, and it is also the LaosChina Friendship Year. The live video meeting was held under the framework of the th ChinaASEAN Business and Investment Summit.