Work starts on Europes first plant for Chinese jab
2021-09-11 07:38
Aleksandar Vucic, Serbias president, helps to lay the foundation stone for a COVID vaccine plant at a ceremony in Belgrade on Thursday. PhotoXinhua    BELGRADEConstruction work began in Serbia on Thursday on Europes first production plant for a Chinesedeveloped COVID vaccine. The plant will have the capacity to produce  million doses a year of a vaccine from Chinese drugmaker Sinopharm, from April . It is expected that supplies will go to Serbia and a number of other countries in the region. The foundation stone for the factory was laid by Serbian President Aleksandar Vucic in the presence of Chinese Ambassador Chen Bo, according to a statement from the presidents office. Vucic said that he was proud that Serbia, together with partners from China and the United Arab Emirates, was trying and seems to be able to solve some global problems. This is not a partnership of interest but a proof of friendship, he said. In January, Serbia started mass vaccinations with the Sinopharm jab, which has been the most widely used COVID vaccine in the country. The country has been giving citizens a number of vaccines. In June, Serbia started to produce Russias Sputnik V COVID vaccine at the Institute of Virology, Vaccines and Sera in Belgrade. Chinese vaccines, including Sinopharms and one from Sinovac Biotech, have been approved by the World Health Organization for emergency use. Chinese President Xi Jinping said on Thursday, while addressing the th BRICS summit via video link, that China will strive to provide  billion doses of COVID vaccines to the world by the end of this year. Xi said China, to date, has provided over  billion doses of finished and bulk vaccines to over  countries and international organizations. Since the pandemic broke out, China has sent medical aid and batches of vaccines to Serbia and helped build two socalled Fire Eye laboratories for polymerase chain reaction testing. Chinese doctors spent months helping set up prevention measures in the country. Xinhua