Philippines thanks China for lifesaving vaccines
2021-11-17 14:52
MANILA  A Philippine government official thanked China for the steady and timely delivery of the lifesaving vaccines after the country received on Wednesday one more batch of the Sinovac CoronaVac vaccines.Carlito Galvez, the chief implementer of the governments measures to combat COVID, told reporters at the airport in Manila that the fresh delivery completes the vaccines the Philippines purchased from the Chinese vaccine maker.Sinovac has truly been a very reliable partner of the Philippine government, said Galvez.He said it was the Chinadonated Sinovac vaccines that helped his country kickstart a national vaccination program.China has sustained the COVID vaccine supply to the Philippines since the first delivery on Feb. . The Southeast Asian country kicked off its vaccination drive on March .We will not forget your kindness and compassion. You are really a friend who helped a friend in need, Galvez told Chinas Ambassador to the Philippines Huang Xilian, who was also at the airport to receive the vaccines.With the arrival of the latest batch of Sinovac vaccine, Galvez said the Philippines is closer to achieving population protection by year end.In a brief statement to reporters at the airport, Huang expressed hope that the newly delivered vaccines will further bring down the infections in the Philippines and pave the way for the countrys early recovery from the pandemic.Philippine Presidential Assistant on Foreign Affairs Robert Borje, who represented President Rodrigo Duterte, lauded the partnership between China and the Philippines. As we can say, this is a partnership that works under Dutertes independent foreign policy, he said.The Philippines has administered nearly  million doses of COVID vaccines as of Tuesday. More than . million people have been fully vaccinated. The government aims to vaccinate up to  percent of its  million population this year.To date, the Philippines has received more than  million doses of COVID vaccines from different vaccine makers. More than  percent of the countrys vaccine stockpile came from China.As of Tuesday, the Philippines has more than . million confirmed COVID cases, including , deaths.