Activists call for COP climate talks to be delayed
2021-09-09 10:45
Protesters from the Climate Coalition demonstrate, with  hundred days to go before the start of the COP climate summit, in Parliament Square, London, Britain, July , . PhotoAgencies    A coalition of more than , environmental groups has called for the postponement of the COP climate change conference in Glasgow at the end of October, claiming global COVID vaccine distribution makes attendance unequal. The talks, delayed by a year because of the pandemic, run from Oct  to Nov , and aim to help countries progress toward the goal of net zero carbon emissions by , in a bid to limit the impact of climate change. Usually, such a gathering would attract delegates from nearly  countries, but with so many places still facing major COVID crises, or having limited vaccine programs, protesters calling themselves the Climate Action Network CAN say it is wrong for the summit to go ahead. Our concern is that those countries most deeply affected by the climate crisis and those countries suffering from the lack of support by rich nations in providing vaccines will be left out of the talks, CAN Executive Director Tasneem Essop told the Reuters news agency. With the issue of climate change having been so visibly demonstrated by extreme weather conditions all over the world this year, the issues already high stakes were raised further this summer by a report from the United Nationsbacked Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, compiled in conjunction with  authors and  governments. It said it was now a statement of fact that humanity is damaging the climate, and it is unequivocal that human influence has warmed the atmosphere, oceans and land. UN SecretaryGeneral Antonio Guterres called the findings a code red warning for humanity and said it increased the burden of responsibility on those taking part in the Glasgow summit. There is no time for delay and no room for excuses. I count on government leaders and all stakeholders to ensure COP is a success, he added. In response to the vaccine protest, a spokesperson for Guterres said the proven urgent nature of the COP agenda meant that there was no way it could be delayed any further. The global scientific community has made clear that climate change is now a global emergency and only an urgent and major stepup in climate action can keep the goals of the Paris Agreement within reach and protect the most vulnerable countries and communities from worsening climate impacts, he said. The British government has begun delivering vaccines to conference delegates to enable them to be vaccinated in time for the event to take place, but CAN said it has not acted fast enough. Alok Sharma, the British government representative overseeing the summit, said anyone needing to quarantine would have their costs paid by the government, so the talks could go ahead as planned. Ensuring that the voices of those most affected by climate change are heard is a priority ... if we are to deliver for our planet, we need all countries and civil society to bring their ideas and ambition to Glasgow, he said.