Bradys brilliance rooted in relentless desire to improve
2021-09-09 09:40
Tampa Bay Buccaneers quarterback Tom Brady  celebrates with the Vince Lombardi Trophy after beating the Kansas City Chiefs in Super Bowl LV at Raymond James Stadium, Tampa, FL, USA, Feb , . PhotoAgencies    NEW YORKTom Brady embarks on the latest chapter of his agedefying career on Thursday as the Tampa Bay Buccaneers launch their quest for backtoback Super Bowls in a seasonopening clash with the Dallas Cowboys. It is almost  years since Bradys NFL odyssey began in earnest, when the quarterback replaced the injured Drew Bledsoe for the New England Patriots in a game against the New York Jets on Sept , . Nobody knew it at the time, but it effectively marked the start of the Patriots dynasty, with Brady retaining the starters jersey for the remainder of a season which culminated in the first of his seven Super Bowl rings. Two decades later, and the yearold Brady remains, incredibly, at the sharp end of one of the most unforgiving crucibles in professional sport, where the average span of a playing career is just . years. Last season, Brady flouted conventional wisdom once more, leading Tampa Bay to an upset  Super Bowl victory over the defending champion Kansas City Chiefs in his first season with the club since leaving the Patriots. Many observers wondered whether last seasons Super Bowl represents the greatest achievement of a career already studded with milestones and records that may never be surpassed. Despite the COVID pandemic decimating preseason training in , making it harder for the new quarterback to settle in, Brady turned the Bucs into a championship team over the course of a single season. He brought a winning mentality to a really talented team that didnt know how to win, was the verdict of Bucs coach Bruce Arians. Fresh focus Moreover, Brady revealed during the offseason that he had done it effectively on one leg, having played the entire  season with a torn knee ligament. Never one to dwell on past achievements, Brady has already left last season in the rearview mirror. His eyes are firmly fixed on the challenges that lie ahead in what will be his nd NFL season. Its really just a whole other year and experience, Brady said on Tuesday. Weve got a chance to play as the  team, as the best we possibly can. And our coaches have put us in the best possible position to be successful. Unusually, Brady will have a familiar supporting cast as he chases backtoback championships for the first time since leading the Patriots to titles in  and . The Buccaneers head into the season with all  of their Super Bowl starters on offense and defense returning for the new campaignthe first time that has happened since the Oakland Raiders brought back their championship roster in . Weve got a lot of continuity, weve got a lot of things to build on, were a lot more experienced together, Brady said. Thats really all you can ask for as players. Id like us to go out there and take advantage of that. As good as we were last season, as well as we played, with the same group of guys, Id love to see how good we can be this year. But its not about hype, or BS, or buildup. Weve got to go and do it. Ominously for the rest of the league, Brady believes there is plenty of scope for improvement in a team which finished second in the NFC South behind the New Orleans Saints last season with an  record. Its not like we won , Brady said. We had a lot of games where we struggledstruggled to move the ball, struggled against certain blitzes, struggled to run the ball, struggled to complete passes. We can improve in a lot of areas. Young pretenders It remains to be seen which teams will be capable of matching the Buccaneers if they improve as Brady envisages. After last Februarys Super Bowl mauling, Kansas City moved quickly to strengthen their offensive line, bringing in Joe Thuney and Kyle Long to give added protection to quarterback Patrick Mahomes. Few would be surprised to see the Chiefs back in the Super Bowl for a third straight season. Elsewhere, all eyes will be on the latest class of rookie quarterbacks joining the league, with No  draft pick Trevor Lawrence looking to fire the Jacksonville Jaguars and Zach Wilson tasked with attempting to transform the New York Jets into a competitive force. New England hopes to have found its longterm successor to Brady in the shape of rookie Mac Jones, who has replaced the released Cam Newton, while Justin Fields will be hoping to make the starters jersey his own with the Chicago Bears. NFL stadiums across the United States will welcome back capacity crowds again after the pandemichit  season saw many teams play games in empty stadiums. New COVID protocols in force will encourage players to get vaccinated, with unvaccinated players facing more stringent rules and more frequent testing than their vaccinated counterparts. AFP