US coronavirus cases hit  million
2021-09-07 10:05
A nurse works in a COVID patients room during a tour of SSM Health St. Anthony Hospitals intensive care unit ICU amid the coronavirus disease COVID pandemic in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma, US, August , . PhotoAgencies    The United States on Monday hit another milestone on the total number of known coronavirus cases since January  when the first confirmed case of the virus in the country was reported  million, according to Johns Hopkins University data, and the number of deaths stood at close to ,. As of Monday, there were more than , new coronavirus cases a day last week and about , COVID patients are hospitalized nationwide, according to a New York Times database. The Deltadriven surge has filled hospitals in many states. Only a handful have more than  percent of their overall ICU beds still available, according to the US Health and Human Services Department. On Sept , Dr Anthony Fauci, the director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases and President Joe Bidens chief medical adviser, told CNN We are perilously close in certain areas of the country of getting so close to having full occupancy that youre going to be in a situation where youre going to have to make some tough choices. Oregon and Idaho have reported running out of ICU beds as they confront a surge in new coronavirus infections. In Oregon, the sevenday average of hospitalizations hit , on Friday, almost double the previous high reached in December, according to a Times database. Idaho had a sevenday average of  hospitalizations on Sept , a number that has grown rapidly since July, according to the newspaper. The Oregon Health Authority reported on Sept  that only  of the states  hospital beds were still available. Patrick Allen, the director of the Oregon Health Authority, said in an interview on Sept  that  patients in the state were waiting in emergency departments for beds to open up. He said hospitals in southern Oregon, where vaccination rates were lowest, were especially hard hit. Idaho Governor Brad Little, a Republican, and Oregon Governor Kate Brown, a Democrat, each mobilized their states National Guard last month to add extra hospital staff. Health officials said that other states with August being their worst month for cases were Alabama, Florida, Hawaii, Louisiana, Mississippi, Oregon and Washington. Hawaiis cases grew by  percent compared to its previous highest month, state health officials said. On Aug , Hawaii Governor David Ige said Hawaii visitors and residents should delay all nonessential travel through the end of October due to the recent surge in virus cases overburdening the states healthcare facilities and resources. On Sunday, the Biden administration reiterated that it wont offer booster shots until the Food and Drug Administration FDA and the Centers for Disease and Control CDC have more time to evaluate vaccine data before moving ahead with booster shots. Ron Klain, President Joe Bidens chief of staff, said on CNN that he wanted to be absolutely clear. No ones going to get boosters until the FDA says theyre approved, until the CDC advisory committee makes a recommendation. In August, the administration announced a plan to start offering booster shots the week of Sept  to adults who had received their second shot of the PfizerBioNTech or Moderna vaccine at least eight months prior. At the time, the administration said the plan was contingent on clearance from the FDA and a CDC advisory committee. The announcement in August kind of jumped the gun, Dr Stephen Ostroff, former acting FDA commissioner during the Obama administration, told The Associated Press. They needed to say something, but they could have just said, Were working on boosters, more to come. Regulators are beginning to review data that will help them determine how to proceed on boosters. Pfizer finished its booster application to the FDA less than two weeks ago Moderna said on Sept  that it had just completed its own. Fauci said on CBS News on Saturday that it was possible that only the PfizerBioNTech booster would be approved by Sept . He said that any delay in clearing the Moderna booster would be only a few weeks at most. An FDA panel is set to review Pfizers thirdshot data on Sept . The need for a Johnson  Johnson booster shot hasnt been determined yet, but the CDC says it is likely. The FDA already has approved a third dose of the Pfizer and Moderna vaccines for people who are immunocompromised. Advocates for global health  including the World Health Organization  have said it was morally wrong for the administration to give booster shots to Americans when so many people around the world were still waiting to be vaccinated.