Gloom hangs over US holiday weekend
2021-09-07 09:47
Passengers comply with coronavirus regulations in Union Station in Washington, DC, on Friday. ALEX WONGGETTY IMAGESAFP    NEW YORKThe resurgent coronavirus, with daily new infections running at more than ,, has cast a pall on the Labor Day holiday weekend in the United States. With the rising caseloads and around , COVID patients being treated in hospitals, the bitter realization is dawning on many that the coronavirus will remain a fact of life in the US for the foreseeable future. The sevenday average of confirmed infections stood at , nationwide on Saturday. For a day period, the rise was  percent. COVIDrelated deaths came to , on Saturday, a jump of  percent from the prior day period, according to The New York Times. The irony is that things got so good in May and most of June that all of us, including me, were talking about the end game, John Swartzberg, an infectious disease specialist at the University of California, Berkeley, was quoted as saying. We started to enjoy life again. Within a very few weeks, it all came crashing down. The resurgence of the pandemic has left the country exhausted, nervous and less certain than ever about when normalcy might return, the newspaper said on Sunday. The impacts of the resurging pandemic are more apparent on campuses and at airports as the summer fizzles out. The recent spread of the highly contagious Delta variant has thrown backtoschool plans into disarray, temporarily driving tens of thousands of students back to virtual learning or pausing instruction altogether, The Wall Street Journal reported on Sunday. Since the school year started in late July, at least , schools across  states have closed because of COVID, according to Burbio, a data service that is monitoring school closures at , districts nationwide, including the  largest. In the meantime, the US airline industrys recovery has been grounded by the spike in cases, prompting people to cancel the travel plans they had for the Labor Day weekend, news website The Hill reported. Air travel neared prepandemic levels in July, giving the airlines momentum and optimism for a robust fall season, but flight bookings dipped in August amid soaring infection rates fueled by the Delta variant, according to the report. Sharp rise in fears The Delta variants twomonth surge has generated a sharp rise in peoples fears about contracting the coronavirus and undermined confidence in US President Joe Bidens leadership, according to a Washington PostABC News poll. Some  percent of respondents rate their risk of getting sick from the coronavirus as moderate or high, up  percentage points from late June. Bidens approval rating on his handling of the pandemic has dropped to  percent from  percent in late June, days before he said the nation was closer than ever to declaring our independence from a deadly virus. Globally, more than  million confirmed cases of COVID, including more than . million deaths, had been reported to the Johns Hopkins University as of early Monday. In Iraq, authorities will limit the entry of foreign pilgrims for the major Shiite ritual of Arbaeen out of fears for the spread of the virus. Prime Minister Mustafa alKadhimi at a meeting on Sunday decided to allow , pilgrims from neighboring Iran and , from other countries to observe the ritual, which will start on Sept . Going in the other direction is Israel, which will allow small foreign tour groups from certain countries to visit from Sept  under a pilot program to kickstart tourism, the government said on Sunday. Tour groups of between  and  vaccinated people from lowrisk countries will be allowed to enter the country, the tourism ministry said. Elsewhere, New Zealand will mostly lift its COVID lockdown this week, Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern said on Monday. About  million New Zealanders will no longer be under stayathome orders as of Tuesday overnight, and schools will reopen on Thursday for the first time in three weeks. But she added that Auckland, where the countrys Delta variant outbreak emerged late last month, will remain in hard lockdown for at least another week as the virus was not yet contained in the city of  million. Xinhua  Agencies