UK warned mandatory shots for NHS staff may backfire
2021-09-07 09:35
NHS workers stand near a coronavirus disease COVID mobile testing unit in Tower Hamlets, London, Britain, May , . PhotoAgencies    British Health Secretary Sajid Javid has been warned that his plans to make COVID vaccines mandatory for workers in the public health system could spark a mass exodus of staff. The proposal to mandate the vaccines for National Health Service workers was first reported by the Daily Telegraph in May, when government ministers said the policy would save lives by reducing the spread of the coronavirus in hospitals. The newspaper reported on Sunday that an official consultation on COVID vaccines becoming a condition of employment by the health service will be launched as soon as this week. NHS data shows that , healthcare workers had not received a dose of the vaccine by April, and the Telegraph said that it was as many as one in four in certain hospitals. It noted that a Facebook group, called NHS workers for choice, no restrictions for declining a vaccine, has gathered nearly , members. The carehome sector is suffering its worst staffing shortage, partly as a result of mandatory vaccines, ITV News reported last week. The government has said all carehome workersincluding agency workers, volunteers, and healthcare visitorsmust have had their first jab by Sept  and be fully vaccinated by Nov . The Telegraph said some experts believe the policy could result in up to  percent of care home staff either quitting or being sacked. The governments own data predicts that up to , of the more than half a million care workers will not be fully vaccinated by Nov . Job vacancies The Independent newspaper noted that public and health sector union Unison called on the government to abandon the no jab, no job policy, telling ministers that they are sleepwalking into disaster. Unison said the care sector already has more than , job vacancies. The Guardian reported that carehome workers are leaving for betterpaid jobs, including at warehouses of online retailer Amazon. A Department of Health spokesman said NHS staff have a duty of care to those most vulnerable to COVID and we are encouraging all front line staff to come forward for the jab. Ensuring the NHS is wellstaffed is a top priority for this government and we will continue to work with employers to ensure they have the right number of staff to meet increasing demand. Sky News reported that the United Kingdoms four chief medical officers, including Englands Chris Whitty, have been asked to make a final recommendation. UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson announced in July that the requirement would likely be imposed on large venues after making it mandatory for nightclubs in England by the end of this month.