NHL reaches agreement to send players to Olympics
2021-09-07 09:06
Team Canada players pose with their gold medals at the  Winter Olympics in Sochi, Russia. NHL stars have not played in the Olympics since then but will take part in Beijing  under an agreement announced by the league last Friday. AFP    The National Hockey League is set to return to the Olympics in Beijing this winter after reaching an agreement with international officials, though players have the opportunity to withdraw if pandemic circumstances warrant. The NHL, its players union, the International Olympic Committee and the International Ice Hockey Federation struck a deal last Friday that will put the best players in the world back on sports biggest stage in February after they skipped the  Pyeongchang Games. It was not easy, but we did it, IIHF president Rene Fasel told The Associated Press by phone. Im really, really happy. When you see the last was , and they would wait until , so you have  years in betweenthat means we have a generation of hockey players that would not be able to play in the Olympics. Even after the NHL and players agreed to Olympic participation as part of a longterm extension of the collective bargaining agreement last summer, the coronavirus pandemic and related costs threatened to shelve that possibility. Instead, the sides figured it out, allowing for the league or players to withdraw if virus circumstances change for the worse or theres an outbreak during the season. As long as that does not happen, NHL players will compete in the Olympic mens hockey tournament for the sixth time in seven chances dating to . We understand how passionately NHL players feel about representing and competing for the countries, NHL deputy commissioner Bill Daly said. We are very pleased that we were able to conclude arrangements that will allow them to resume the best against the best on the Olympic stage. COVID insurance is not part of the agreement, though Fasel confirmed the IIHF will provide a  million fund for any lost salary because of the disease. Vaccinations are expected to be required, and players will have their contracts insured for injury. US coach Mike Sullivan called returning to the Olympics such an exciting time for hockey. He is not alone in that thinking. Reigning NHL MVP Connor McDavid played for an under Team North America at the  World Cup of Hockey and has yet to play for Canada in a tournament of the worlds best mens hockey players. Just to be able to represent Canada at the Olympics and compete for a gold medal would be an absolute dream come true, McDavid told the AP this week. Its kind of been a long time since weve been able to play best on best internationally. I think for me, and I think for a lot of guys that were on that team, its been a long time coming. Were obviously looking forward to going to the Olympics if were all lucky enough to make it. It could be the first Olympics for McDavid, US star Auston Matthews,  playoff MVP and twotime Stanley Cup champion Victor Hedman and many others. They didnt get the opportunity three years ago, when national teams were made up mostly of college and European professional players, except for the Olympic Athletes from Russia, who won the gold medal in Pyeongchang. The Olympics is one of the biggest dreams of mine and I havent been able to participate in onethis might be the last chance I get, said Hedman, who was left off Swedens  Olympic roster. When you get an opportunity to represent your country on the biggest stage, it is one of those things that youll probably never forget. So yeah for me it is obviously something that Ive been dreaming about my whole life and something I want to do before I hang up my skates. In anticipation of a deal being reached, the NHL already scheduled a threeweek break to take into account the Olympic tournament opening on Feb . The league will still hold its AllStar weekend in Las Vegas before players fly to China on Feb . It levels the playing field, said Hall of Fame defenseman Chris Pronger, who made his Olympic debut in  and won gold with Canada in . It allows more countries to compete at a higher level. It showcases the sport. In the past, NHL players at the Olympics was taken as a given, with the IOC agreeing to pay travel and insurance costs and owners willing to pause the season. An entire generation of players grew up recognizing the Olympics as a showcase for NHL stars. Agencies via Xinhua