Urgent action needed as many nations in Africa see COVID surge
2021-09-07 09:02
A man receives the second dose of COVID vaccine in Nairobi, capital of Kenya, June , . PhotoXinhua    Africa is now in the grip of a health crisis emanating from the different COVID variants being reported by the World Health Organization. More than  African countries, including Kenya, Malawi, Namibia, Senegal, South Africa and Tunisia, are recording increases in new cases. As of Saturday, . percent of the worlds population had received at least one dose of a COVID vaccine, and more than . billion doses had been administered, according to Our World in Data, a project of the UKbased nonprofit Global Change Data Lab. However, only . percent of people in lowincome countries have received at least one dose, it said. Of the  million doses that COVAX, the international vaccinesharing initiative, aims to deliver to Africa by the end of this year, fewer than  million had arrived by July . However, the African Union also plans to deliver at least  million of a planned  million doses by the end of this month. According to the Africa Centres for Disease Control and Prevention, the number of confirmed COVID cases in Africa had surpassed . million as of August . Furthermore, . million people across the continent have recovered from the disease. However, new cases are reported daily. In May, the WHO unveiled plans to support countries in vaccinating at least  percent of their population by the end of September. It also said more than half of countries worldwide have done so. However, it said, nearly  percent of African nations will not have reached this goal by the end of the month due to Westernled vaccine nationalism. Currently, about . million to  million doses are administered weekly in Africa, but according to Matshidiso Moeti, the WHO regional director for Africa, the continent will need an extra  million doses to be able to vaccinate a tenth of its population by the end of this month. According to John Nkengasong, director of the Africa Centres for Disease Control, At this critical moment where widespread vaccination is more urgent than ever, we must do all we can to vaccinate at least  percent of the African population by . The biggest impediment to achieving the global mass vaccination goal, containing the spread of the virus and reducing the strain on Africas weak health care system is the lack of adequate vaccines. On August , the African Vaccine Acquisition Trust announced that , vaccine doses had arrived in Mauritius as part of the first monthly shipment of Johnson Johnson vaccines. The shipment that arrived in Mauritius was part of a total of . million vaccine doses that were to be shipped to African Union member states by the end of August. Sadly, this is a small number on a continent with a population of close to . billion. Another impediment to the recovery process is the lack of equality in the distribution of vaccines. Reports indicate that  percent of administered vaccine doses are concentrated in just five countries Morocco, South Africa, Egypt, Nigeria and Algeria. Yet another concern is the fact that emerging variants suggest global recovery will remain unreachable if Africa is left behind. In this regard, increasing the speed and scale of vaccine distribution is imperative for worldwide recovery. In addition, there is a need to build a platform for deeper collaboration that will pave the way to a more robust African response to the pandemic and move the continent toward recovery. Finally, in order to mitigate most of these challenges, strengthening the capacity for manufacturing COVID vaccines in Africa will go a long way in bolstering the continents health security. The author is director of the Centre for Strategy and Political Management at the Kenyabased Africa Policy Institute.