German states impose new COVID restrictions on unvaccinated
2021-11-17 09:38
People look at a menu with a notice of current COVID measures outside a donut shop in Berlin, Germany, on Nov , . PhotoXinhua    BERLIN  As Germanys COVID infection rate has risen to its highest recorded level yet, some of the countrys  federal states on Tuesday started to restrict event, restaurant and bar access to unvaccinated patrons. The list of states that now apply the socalled G rule was joined by NorthRhine Westphalia, the countrys most populous. G stands for geimpft vaccinated and getestet tested. In order to attend events during Germanys Carnival season, also known as the Fifth Season that began on Nov , people must additionally comply with the new rule, according to which vaccinated or recovered individuals must also have to show a fresh negative COVID test. Children and young people are exempted from most of these measures. The COVID situation is getting worse, said Hendrick Wuest, minister president of NorthRhine Westphalia, during a press conference on Tuesday, stressing that the countrys east and south were particularly hard hit. Having increased by more than  within one week, the sevenday incidence rate in Germany stood at a new alltime high of . cases per , inhabitants on Tuesday, the Robert Koch Institute RKI for infectious diseases said. Last week, the daily number of new infections exceeded , for the first time since the start of the pandemic. On Tuesday, the RKI registered , new infections. The surge in cases has increased pressure on the negotiators in the ongoing government coalition talks. The discussions between the Social Democratic Party, the Greens and the liberal Free Democratic Party entered the final round on Monday. A reform of the countrys Infection Protection Act is expected to be adopted by the Bundestag, the lower house of Parliament, on Thursday. On the same day, the minister presidents of the federal states are scheduled to meet to agree a uniform approach to fight the fourth COVID wave. This week, the necessary decisions will finally be made and, above all, the uniformity will be agreed that we need for acceptance by the citizens, acting Health Minister Jens Spahn told the broadcaster ZDF on Monday, reiterating his wish for a uniform G regulation throughout Germany.