Australia should change current vaccination strategy to achieve herd immunity study
2021-09-06 16:28
A medical staff worker speaks with a patient about to receive the AstraZeneca vaccine at a coronavirus disease COVID vaccination clinic at the Bankstown Sports Club during a lockdown to curb an outbreak of cases in Sydney, Australia, Aug , . PhotoAgencies    SYDNEY  A new COVID pandemic tracking model showed that Australias current vaccination strategy should now prioritize delivering the Pfizer vaccine to people aged between  and  years old to achieve herd immunity. The findings, published in the Medical Journal of Australia MJA on Monday, were made from a new model developed by James Cook University JCU. The model incorporated agespecific mixing, infectiousness, susceptibility, and severity to assess the impact of the epidemic under different public health intervention scenarios, and it also examined different vaccination programs, such as AstraZeneca only, Pfizer only, and the mixed program of vaccinating. Epidemiologist Professor Emma McBryde from JCUs Australian Institute of Tropical Health and Medicine said the modeling showed Australias current strategy of vaccinating the vulnerable older age groups first is the optimal strategy for reducing hospitalizations, deaths, and years of life lost, but it may be unlikely to achieve herd immunity due to the uncertain effective reproduction number of the Delta strain. The current plan to vaccinate  percent of the adult population, or about  percent of the total population, falls far short of herd immunity, said McBryde. She said there were uncertainties in the forecast, but the estimated range of the number of people that one infected person could pass the virus on to is from three to seven. If at the midrange of most estimates, a reproduction number of , at least  percent of the population, including children, would need to be vaccinated to achieve herd immunity. The team investigated two alternative strategies for vaccine distribution  the first focused on vaccinating the vulnerable people  and over and the second prioritizes vaccinating the most infectious those under , and suggested that Australia should now prioritize delivering Pfizer vaccine to younger age groups. We are unlikely to achieve herd immunity at the most plausible reproduction number of five unless vaccination is extended to younger ages or combined with other measures. Australia should now prioritize delivering Pfizer vaccine to  years old, said McBryde. There has been a hot discussion about the vaccination of children as the current COVID outbreak saw more people at younger age were admitted into hospitals. The Sydney Childrens Hospital Network is supporting more than , children with COVID including three children who are currently receiving intensive care. McBryde added if the virus reproduction number is three, the current program can achieve herd immunity at  to  percent coverage without vaccinating five to yearold children, but on the other side of the ledger, an effective reproduction number of seven, means achieving herd immunity without vaccinating children would be impossible.