Compulsory vaccines for NHS staff may backfire
2021-09-06 04:14
Cars pass under a tribute to Britains NHS National Health Service as part of the Illuminations in Blackpool, Britain on September , . PhotoAgencies    Britains health secretary, Sajid Javid, has been warned that his plans to make COVID vaccines mandatory for all National Health Service, or NHS, workers could spark a mass exodus of staff. The proposal to mandate the vaccine for all health service staff was first reported by the Daily Telegraph in May, when government ministers said the policy would save lives by reducing the spread of the virus in hospitals. The newspaper reported on Sunday that an official consultation on COVID vaccines becoming a condition of employment by the health service will be launched as soon as this week. NHS data shows , healthcare workers had not received a dose of the vaccine by April, and the Telegraph said that it was as many as one in four in certain hospitals. It noted that a Facebook group, called NHS workers for choice, no restrictions for declining a vaccine has gathered nearly , members. The care home sector is suffering its worstever staffing shortage, partly as a result of mandatory vaccines, ITV News reported last week. The government has said all care home workers, including agency workers, volunteers, and healthcare visitors  must have had their first jab by Sept  and be fully vaccinated by Nov . The Telegraph said some experts believe the policy could result in up to  percent of care home staff either quitting or being sacked. The governments own data predicts that up to , of more than half a million care workers will not be fully vaccinated by Nov . The Independent newspaper noted that public and health sector union Unison this week called on the government to abandon the no jab, no job policy, telling ministers that they are sleepwalking into disaster. Unison warned the care sector already has staff vacancy levels of more than ,. The Guardian reported that care home staff are leaving for betterpaid jobs, including at Amazons warehouses. A Department of Health spokesman said NHS staff have a duty of care to those most vulnerable to COVID and we are encouraging all frontline staff to come forward for the jab. Ensuring the NHS is wellstaffed is a top priority for this government and we will continue to work with employers to ensure they have the right number of staff to meet increasing demand. British media reported on Sunday that vaccines will soon be offered to children aged between  and , despite the independent Joint Commission for Vaccination and Immunisation advising the government against the move, claiming the virus posed such a low risk to people in the age group. Sky News reported that the United Kingdoms four chief medical officers, including Englands Chris Whitty, have been asked to make a final recommendation. The governments vaccine minister, Nadhim Zahawi, has confirmed vaccine passports will be required to gain entry to large venues. He told Sky News the documents are the best way to avoid winter closures because of groups of people mixing in close proximity. Prime Minister Boris Johnson announced in July that the requirement would likely be imposed on large venues after making it mandatory for all nightclubs in England by the end of this month. However, many Conservative Party politicians are strongly against the documents being used, and the government is likely to face claims that a policy of effectively mandating vaccinations would be discriminatory. Meanwhile, Britains former Labour Party prime minister, Gordon Brown, has called for G nations to urgently create a plan to get COVID vaccine supplies to the developing world. He urged Johnson to convene a G summit within the next two weeks.