NY transit authority denies death benefits for unvaccinated crew
2021-11-23 23:34
A Metropolitan Transportation Authority MTA bus driver wearing a protective face mask waits for riders at a bus stop in New York City, New York, US, November , . PhotoAgencies    New Yorks Metropolitan Transportation Authority MTA will no longer pay a , death benefit to families of bus, subway and rail workers who die of the virus if the employee was unvaccinated. Previously, the death benefit payment was available to any MTA worker who had passed away from COVID, regardless of vaccination status. The move is the latest in a series of penalties that the unvaccinated face in the United States  including higher health insurance premiums and loss of jobs in some sectors including healthcare, sports and law enforcement if they refuse to take a COVID vaccine. The MTA, which has close to , employees, has lost  of them to the pandemic, according to the agency. At least five have died since the policy change on June . Mike Cortez, an MTA spokesman, told China Daily We are not aware they were vaccinated. The transit authority said that when the program was created in April , the , lumpsum death benefit had originally been set to last one year and would have ended in April , but the MTA board extended the program until Aug  and then extended it again to Dec . Transport workers Union local  and the Transport Workers Union of America TWU had initially praised the MTAs program when it started. But soon after COVID vaccines became free, easily available and fully approved by the Food and Drug Administration, the MTA board said it gave six weeks notice of the June  policy change to employees. Workers have to be vaccinated for their families to be eligible for the payment. Approximately  percent of staffers agencywide have received at least one vaccine dose, according to the MTA but that declines to  percent for subway and bus workers. Getting a COVID vaccine isnt a requirement to keep a job at the MTA, but as of Nov , all new employees must be fully vaccinated. Unvaccinated employees must take a weekly COVID test. Cortez explained that the MTA death benefits program, one of the only such programs in the country, is an additional benefit for employees who pass away due to COVID complications. But it is not a policy an employee contributes to like a pension or life insurance policy. In Massachusetts, the New Bedford City Council wanted to give death benefits to city employees who died from COVID, but Mayor Jon Mitchell refused to sign the legislation, saying it didnt stop a payment if the worker was unvaccinated, according to CNN. Mitchell wrote in a letter to the council As I am certain the Council would agree, it would be inappropriate to extend accidental death benefits where the employee refused to take a vaccine that had been found to be nearly  percent effective. The Centers for Disease Control found in data released in September that unvaccinated Americans have died at  times the rate of those who are fully vaccinated since the Delta variant became the dominant strain in the country.