Join Hands to Overcome Current Difficulties, Plan for Future Development and Write a New Chapter for Far East Cooperation
2021-09-04 07:56
President Xi Jinping addresses the opening ceremony of the Plenary Session of the sixth Eastern Economic Forum via video link on Sept , . PhotoXinhua    Editors Note Chinese President Xi Jinping attended and addressed the opening ceremony of the sixth Eastern Economic Forum on Friday via video link in Beijing. Following is the full text of his speech Your Excellency President Vladimir Putin, Ladies and Gentlemen, Friends, I wish to thank President Putin for his gracious invitation. It is a great pleasure to address the Eastern Economic Forum again after three years. Today marks the th anniversary of the victory of the Chinese Peoples War of Resistance against Japanese Aggression and the World AntiFascist War. On  August, I spoke with President Putin on the phone. We both agreed that the international community must defend firmly the victorious outcomes of World War II, safeguard the truth of history, and stay committed to taking history as a mirror to open up a brighter future. Earlier in June, President Putin and I had a successful video meeting. Together, we announced the extension of the ChinaRussia Treaty of GoodNeighborliness and Friendly Cooperation, and reached new common understandings on major issues such as strengthening ChinaRussia strategic coordination and advancing bilateral practical cooperation across the board. The ChinaRussia comprehensive strategic partnership of coordination for a new era boasts strong momentum and broad prospects. As we speak, the international landscape is going through profound transformation. The COVID pandemic keeps raging with frequent flareups, and the world economy faces a daunting recovery. This presents regional cooperation in Northeast Asia with both stern challenges and important opportunities. It is only right that all parties ground themselves in regional realities while adopting a global perspective, join hands to tide over the difficult time and plan for common development. We need to offer each other help to overcome the pandemic challenge. We need to intensify cooperation in vaccine research, development and production, provide more public goods to the international community, firmly reject any politicization of COVID vaccines and originstracing, and strive to build a global community of health for all. We need to redouble our efforts to advance mutuallybeneficial cooperation. We need to deepen the collaboration between the Belt and Road Initiative and the Eurasian Economic Union, support the innovative development of the digital economy, jointly tackle global climate change, and promote social and economic development in the region. We need to form synergy to safeguard regional peace and stability. We need to narrow differences and build consensus through dialogue and exchanges, embrace the concept of common, comprehensive, cooperative and sustainable security, and work for a harmonious and tranquil homeland for us all. This year marks the th anniversary of the founding of the Communist Party of China, and China has started a new journey toward fully building a modern socialist country. We are ready to work with all parties to uphold true multilateralism, advocate trust and harmony, promote winwin cooperation, and march with firm steps toward the goal of building a community with a shared future for mankind. Thank you.