Moderna seeks FDA approval for halfdose COVID booster shot
2021-09-03 11:32
FILE PHOTO Walmart pharmacist holds a vial of the Moderna coronavirus disease COVID vaccine inside a Walmart department store in West Haven, Connecticut, US, February , . PhotoAgencies    Moderna is asking the US Food and Drug Administration FDA to authorize a third booster shot of its COVID vaccine at half of the previously administered dosage. Our submission is supported by data generated with the  micrograms dose of our COVID vaccine, which shows robust antibody responses against the Delta variant, Moderna CEO Stphane Bancel said Wednesday. Moderna will submit the data to the European Medicines Agency EMA and other regulatory authorities around the world in the coming days, the company said. Moderna said its study showed that antibodies had waned significantly after approximately six months following the second shot. A booster dose of  micrograms achieved a more robust level of antibody than that observed previously for two doses, Moderna said, and the booster shot significantly increased protection against the current widespreading Delta variant by fold. The company also has completed submission to the FDA for the full licensure of the Moderna COVID vaccine for individuals  years of age and older. Pfizer and BioNTech have got such FDA approval over a week ago for their mRNA COVID vaccines. Some in the government are leaning toward authorizing the microgram dose because of concerns a lowerdose booster might not offer a durable enough boost to counter the fastspreading Delta variant, The Wall Street Journal reported Thursday. However, one possible benefit of a lower dose is fewer side effects, said the Journal. Currently, the FDA has recommended a third booster shot of the vaccine for the immunocompromised population only and is still considering the booster shot for the general population. While a large part of the population is still hesitant to get vaccinated, eager booster seekers are crossing state lines, listing autoimmune disorders they dont have on pharmacy forms and asking healthcare workers to bend rules, the Journal reported. Those looking to get the additional shots as soon as possible cite factors including the high transmissibility of the Delta variant, the new school year and some employers returntooffice plan, according to the Journal. Meanwhile, a new largescale study showed that fully vaccinated adults are at much lower risk of severe illness and hospitalization, including longlasting COVID symptoms. The study, published Wednesday in The Lancet Infectious Diseases journal, used data from more than . million partially and fully vaccinated adults in the UK from December  to July . Fourteen days or more after the first dose of the PfizerBioNTech, OxfordAstraZeneca or Moderna vaccines, . percent reported a breakthrough infection. After the second dose, that number dropped to less than . percent. We are at a critical point in the pandemic as we see cases rising worldwide due to the Delta variant, study colead author Dr Claire Steves said. Breakthrough infections are expected and dont diminish the fact that these vaccines are doing exactly what they were designed to do  save lives and prevent serious illness. The odds of experiencing long COVID, or symptoms after  days of infection, dropped by  percent after two vaccine doses, according to the study. Our findings highlight the crucial role vaccines play in larger efforts to prevent COVID infections, which should still include other personal protective measures such as maskwearing, frequent testing and social distancing, Steves said.