Prince Harry condemns vaccine misinformation
2021-09-03 09:54
A dose of AstraZeneca vaccine is prepared at COVID vaccination center in the Odeon Luxe Cinema in Maidstone, Britain, on Feb , . PhotoAgencies    Prince Harry has called on global leaders to resolve a major disparity in access to COVID vaccines between rich and poor nations, and criticized the spread of massscale misinformation on news and social media, which he said has contributed to vaccine hesitancy. He delivered a speech on the state of global vaccine rollout on Wednesday, before presenting the team behind the OxfordAstraZeneca jab with the Heroes of the Year prize at the GQ Men Of The Year Awards . He called on global governments, pharmaceutical leaders, and heads of business to work together in resolving global vaccine inequality. While almost  percent of the worlds population has received at least one dose of a COVID vaccine and . billion doses have been distributed, just . percent of people in lowincome countries have received a first treatment, according to Our World in Data. We have to keep doing our part, he said via video link. That must include sharing vaccine science and supporting and empowering developing countries with more flexibility. Where youre born should not affect your ability to survive, when the drugs and knowhow exist to keep you alive and well. The royal also said that widespread inaccurate information about the safety and efficacy of vaccines has led to fewer people seeking treatment. Families around the world are being overwhelmed by massscale misinformation across news media and social media, where those who peddle in lies and fear are creating vaccine hesitancy, which in turn is dividing communities and eroding trust, he said. This is a system we need to break if we are to overcome COVID. Harry stepped back from the royal family earlier this year, in part due to toxic media coverage, which he said was destroying my mental health. He has since championed the cause of vaccine equity, and delivered a speech at the recent Vax Live concert in Los Angeles. The GQ Heroes of the Year award was presented to Sarah Gilbert and Catherine Green and several other members of the Oxford University team who, in collaboration with AstraZeneca, developed a COVID vaccine that is currently the most widelyused treatment in the world. At the awards, Green said Harry had said all of the things we wanted to say about the necessity to get vaccines to the world for people, irrespective of their ability to pay. A really important message.