Azarenka Time to talk about mandatory vaccines
2021-09-03 09:24
Fans watch Victoria Azarenkas victory over Jasmine Paolini at the US Open in New York on Wednesday. Spectators must show proof they have been vaccinated against COVID to gain entry to the venue, the Billie Jean King National Tennis Center. PhotoAFP    Belarusian bemused by bizarre policy that exempts players at US Open After reaching the US Open final last year with no fans, Victoria Azarenka appreciates playing in front of people again. Especially because of what they had to do to be in the stands. Spectators must show proof of at least one dose of a COVID vaccine to attend matches. Players are not required to get a shot and only about half on the mens and womens tours have. I want to start this conversation between our players, because to me thats a bit bizarre that fans have to be vaccinated and players are not, Azarenka said. So I think that in my opinion, its inevitable that it will be mandated at some point, like other leagues are doing. I dont see the point of stalling it really, because I think we all want to be safe, we all want to continue doing our jobs, and I know there is a lot of discussions about it. After her ,   victory over Jasmine Paolini, the threetime US Open runnerup said during her interview on the court that it was cool there were so many vaccinated people there to watch her. Novak Djokovic said before the tournament he hopes the decision to get a vaccination remains a personal one. Azarenka thinks its time for the players and tours to talk about taking it beyond that. I hope that as an association we make the best decision for our business, for our health, for the tournaments, for public, she said. And I think that we need to start this conversation, because as I said, in my opinion its just inevitable. Injury scare As Aryna Sabalenka approached the net after beating Tamara Zidansek, she made clear that she wanted to shake with her left hand. Thats because the No  seed was trying to protect her right one. Sabalenka said she hurt it when she fell on her right arm during her match and her finger was swollen afterward. Well see tomorrow whats going on with my fingers, because right now its a little bit bigger, she said. Its the color of my finger that is changing. Its getting darker. Sabalenka had no trouble playing through the pain, winning ,  in  minutes. She had  winners to just  unforced errors. Now she hopes there will be no effects from an injury that was so painful that she initially feared a broken hand. I was really worrying about my arm and my hand, and Im really happy that I could finish this match, Sabalenka said. I have an extra day to see whats going on, and maybe to do the best recovery I can do. Yeah, well see. But Im really, really hoping that I will be able to play on Friday. Home hopes After  American men made it to the second round of the US Open for the first time since , Frances Tiafoe made sure at least two of them will get to the third round. Tiafoe, a yearold from Maryland now based in Florida, moved on Wednesday by beating Argentinas Guido Pella , , . Tiafoe reached the fourth round at last years US Open. He can return to that stage if he defeats No  seed Andrey Rublev next. Thats what I want. I want him bad. Im coming after him, Tiafoe said. The last time they played each other was as juniors Tiafoe beat Rublev in the US Open boys quarterfinals in . The other two US men in action Wednesday lost Marcos Giron and Brandon Nakashima. Ten others were scheduled to play on Thursday, including two Californians who will play each other Taylor Fritz and Jenson Brooksby. The  to notch at least one win at Flushing Meadows were the most from the host country since  did it  years ago, a group that included Grand Slam title winners Pete Sampras, Andre Agassi, Ivan Lendl, Jim Courier and Michael Chang. Quality qualifiers Four male qualifiers have made it to the US Opens third round for the second time since  Germanys Peter Gojowczyk, Switzerlands Henri Laaksonen, Dutchman Botic van de Zandschulp and Slovakias Alex Molcan all won Wednesday. Two more can join them by winning on Thursday American Maxime Cressy and Germanys Oscar Otte. Gojowczyk credited three victories in the qualifying rounds with helping him build momentum for the main draw. Physically and mentally, Im pretty strong right now, he said after beating Dusan Lajovic , , ,,  on Wednesday, following up another fiveset win over rd seed Ugo Humbert in the first round. In qualifying, Gojowczyk beat Lukas Rosol, Robin Haase and Francisco Cerundolo. It helps a lot if you have some confidence and if youre winning some close matches, Gojowczyk said. It helps you a lot on the big stage. On Wednesday, van de Zandschulp surprised No  seed Casper Ruud , , , , Laaksonen got past No  seed Cristian Garin ,  , , , and Molcan edged Brandon Nakashima , ,, , . Pride Day If a mens professional tennis player came out as gay, Daniil Medvedev thinks he would be supported. I honestly think from my sideof course, you never know whats truebut from my side, I think everybody would be super open if somebody would come out on the ATP Tour, the  US Open runnerup said. The No  seed won his secondround match on the day the US Open celebrated Pride Day. I think its great from the US Open, this initiative, Medvedev said. I think ATP honestly is doing a good job also, especially internally, trying to provide info and to just make sure that if anybody wants to come out, hes going to feel safe and secure. Agencies via Xinhua