Speed called for as vaccinations lag in Indonesia
2021-09-03 09:11
A woman reacts as she receives a dose of the Pfizer vaccine against the coronavirus disease during a mass vaccination program at a shopping mall in Jakarta, Indonesia, on Aug , . PhotoAgencies    Indonesia must speed up vaccinations to curb one of Asias worst COVID outbreaks, health experts said. The worlds fourth most populous nation aims to inoculate  million people by January. By the end of August, only  percent of the target population had been fully vaccinated. The slow pace of vaccinations contrasts with the fastrising number of infections of the highly transmissible Delta variant of the coronavirus. More than  million people in Indonesia have been infected with COVID, killing more than ,. Health Minister Budi Gunadi Sadikin said the government aims to administer  million COVID vaccine doses a month to meet the target. But health experts said this goal might not be feasible given the lack of supply and health workers, as well as the poor health infrastructure across the vast country. We can set any vaccination target, but the problem is whether there is enough supply of vaccines that can be distributed around the country, said Tjandra Yoga Aditama, a professor at the University of Indonesias Faculty of Medicine. More than  million vaccine doses had arrived in Indonesia by Aug , with more than  percent of them from Chinese drugmaker Sinovac Biotech. Most of the vaccines are delivered in bulk Indonesias stateowned pharmaceutical firm Bio Farma, partnering with Sinovac, processes and packages them. Sinopharm, AstraZeneca, Moderna and Pfizer also supply vaccines. But the delivery schedule of these vaccines varies, affecting the pace of the vaccination program, according to Aan Suryana, visiting fellow at the ISEASYusof Ishak Institute, a research center in Singapore. Although Indonesia has seen generous amounts of vaccines arrive, at other times, short supplies have kept health workers waiting before they can inoculate people, Suryana said. The daily number of shots administered has been fluctuating. On July , a record . million doses were administered, Suryana said. On other days, fewer than  million jabs are given. More centers needed Aditama said most of the vaccinations are done in crowded stadiums and schools, settings that heighten the risk of people contracting the virus. The government should instead open up more community health centers to reduce crowding and guard against infections among those waiting their turn. Irma Hidayana, cofounder of the data monitoring group Lapor COVID, in Jakarta, said vaccine inequity is undermining efforts to inoculate more people. She said that aside from the supply constraints, of greater concern are issues around how these vaccines are distributed and who should get them. Suryana said the need to protect health workers is crucial given that the Delta variant has slashed the already low number of people qualified to give out the vaccines. He said the worsening pandemic has forced most health workers to leave their posts as vaccinators to focus on treating COVID patients. Indonesian authorities are addressing this problem with training. Harif Fadhillah, chairman of the Indonesian Nurses Association, said , volunteers had been trained to help the government accelerate the inoculation program, state news agency Antara reported. He said most of the volunteers are recent graduates of nursing schools and members of youth organizations. Indonesia in July increased its  health budget, from the initial . trillion rupiah . billion to . trillion rupiah, to enable more testing and contact tracing and improved treatments. Health experts said Indonesias poor health infrastructure has been weighed down by the pandemic. According to the World Health Organization, there are only six hospital beds and one doctor for every , Indonesians. Leonardus Jegho in Jakarta contributed to this story.