Doctors book takes new look at hypertension
2021-09-02 17:47
A woman measures blood pressure at a COVID vaccination site of Jingcheng Hospital in Ruili city, Southwest Chinas Yunnan province, April , . PhotoXinhua    New medical perspectives in the field of hypertension are contained in a book published recently by Yu Zhenqiu, director of Hypertension Diagnosis and Treatment Center of Guizhou province. The book, which was released in May, summarizes Yus clinical experience and professional knowledge on hypertension in the province. The hierarchical diagnosis and treatment system will help in the rational distribution of medical resources to patients and improve the overall efficiency of healthcare institutions, especially the primary ones, Yu said. The hierarchical system is a program of providing continuous treatment for patients with different health conditions in healthcare institutions at various levels. The book analyzes theoretical explanations of causes, examinations, diagnosis and medication involving the disease, as well as summarized scientific applications of personalized treatment garnered from cases encountered during doctors rounds in Guizhou hospitals. Cultivation of talent was also recommended in the book. Talent cultivation plays a significant role in gearing up primary healthcare. We have to be observant of the challenges of primary healthcare posed by the lack of talent and staff turnover, he said. According to Yu, institutions should provide multilevel training programs to meet the different needs of healthcare personnel. This advanced method has improved staff competence and comprehensiveness in Guizhous medical system. The book also noted the importance of publicity work for development of the medical system. Proper reports and other communication will increase the rate of patient compliance with medical advice in both urban and rural areas. Yu came to Guizhou from Beijing Anzhen Hospital in  as a research aide and trainer. He established a center in  focusing on the construction of a hierarchical medical system for hypertension and cardiovascular diseases. Once there were many poor and backward areas in Guizhou with a weak medical foundation, but the province has eradicated absolute poverty and improved a lot in the medical sector, Yu said. He added the experience of Guizhou can be shared with other places facing similar challenges. Yu and his team will extend their training programs to village doctors and work to improve the competence of grassroots healthcare units in preventing and treating hypertension and cardiovascular diseases. Feng Xiaojie contributed to this story.