White House defends boosters as  from FDA leave
2021-09-02 10:43
White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki holds the daily press briefing at the White House in Washington, US, September , . PhotoAgencies    The White House on Wednesday defended the administrations COVID booster vaccine plan as the US Food and Drug Administration FDA announced the resignations of two top vaccine officials amid reports they are leaving because the plan was rolled out before officials had a chance to approve it. The booster decision is based on mountains and mountains of available data on vaccine effectiveness reviewed by the nations leading publichealth officials, White House press secretary Jen Psaki said at a briefing. Those top publichealth officials made a critical judgement that boosters will be needed, she said. The FDA announced on Tuesday that Marion Gruber, who leads the Office of Vaccines Research and Review, will depart the FDA at the end of October. Her deputy, Philip Krause, will leave the agency in November, BioCentury reported. Gruber has been at the FDA for more than  years, and Krause for more than a decade. In a letter announcing the resignations obtained by the biotechindustry publication Endpoints, Dr Peter Marks, the director of the FDAs Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research, praised the pair for their work during the COVID pandemic. He didnt give a reason for their departures. The administration announced last month that most people would be offered a COVID booster shot about eight months after vaccination. A former FDA official, who wasnt identified by name, told Politico that the resignations were tied to anger over the FDAs lack of autonomy in booster planning, while a current official, also not named, told the news outlet that the pair were leaving over differences with Marks. Jeff Zients, the White Houses coronavirus czar, said Wednesday the decision to start booster shots was made by and announced by the nations leading publichealth officials including the acting FDA commissioner, the Centers for Disease and Prevention CDC director, the surgeon general, the director of the National Institutes of Health and others. Having reviewed all of the available data, it is in their clinical judgment that it is time to prepare Americans for a booster shot, Zients said. He said the administration had also been very clear throughout that this is pending the FDA conducting an independent evaluation and CDCs panel of outside experts issuing a booster dose recommendation. The FDA  and its vaccine office  has been at the center of the governments effort to speed coronavirus vaccines and other therapies. The agency remains under considerable pressure to approve vaccines for children under age , a decision that probably remains months away. FDA officials are also scrambling to collect and analyze data that clearly demonstrate the boosters benefits before the administrations Sept  deadline for rolling them out to most adults, Politico reported. Many outside experts, and some within the agency, see uncomfortable similarities between the Biden teams topdown booster plan and former President Donald Trumps attempts to goad FDA into accelerating its initial authorization process for Covid vaccines and push through unproven virus treatments, according to Politico. The World Health Organization has repeatedly urged wealthy nations to hold off on booster shots of the coronavirus vaccines until people in poorer countries can get their first doses. FDA officials said Tuesday that the officials departures wouldnt hamper the agencys work. We are confident in the expertise and ability of our staff to continue our critical public health work, including evaluating COVID vaccines, FDA spokeswoman Stephanie Caccomo said in a statement.