UK records highest daily coronavirusrelated death toll since March
2021-09-02 09:38
A person cycles over London Bridge during morning rush hour, amid the coronavirus disease COVID pandemic in London, Britain, July , . PhotoAgencies    LONDON  Britain reported another  coronavirusrelated deaths, the highest number of fatalities recorded in one day since  were recorded on March , according to official figures released Wednesday. The total number of coronavirusrelated deaths in Britain now stands at ,. These figures only include the deaths of people who died within  days of their first positive test. Another , people in Britain have tested positive for COVID, bringing the total number of coronavirus cases in the country to ,,, according to official figures released Wednesday. The latest data came as vaccine passports could be needed for people to gain entry to nightclubs and largescale events in Scotland. Scotlands First Minister Nicola Sturgeon said numbers of new infections are  percent higher than last week and five times higher than four weeks ago and described the situation as extremely concerning. Meanwhile, school leaders have expressed concerns about the potential impact on COVID cases of pupils returning to classrooms in England and Wales. However, according to The Independent newspaper, the British government advisers are reportedly resisting recommending vaccinations for younger teenagers over fears it could pose problems for the booster campaign. Experts from the Joint Committee on Vaccination and Immunisation JCVI are preparing to issue guidance on whether the British government will offer vaccines to  to yearolds, as some other countries have. More than  percent of people aged  and over in Britain have had their first dose of vaccine and nearly  percent have received both doses, the latest figures showed. To bring life back to normal, countries such as Britain, China, Germany, Russia and the United States have been racing against time to roll out coronavirus vaccines.