Indoormask rules lead tostate probe
2021-09-01 09:44
A worker wearing a protective mask sits at the library as students arrive for classes on the first day of school in MiamiDade County, amid the coronavirus disease COVID pandemic, at Barbara Goleman Senior High School, in Miami, Florida, US August , .PhotoAgencies    As universities resume inperson class for the fall semester across the US, more faculty members from schools that refuse to issue mask or vaccination mandates are petitioning, protesting or even resigning over a lack of safety measures at their campuses. Hundreds of colleges and universities in the US require their students to be vaccinated to return to campus and wear masks in classes or activities, since the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention CDC updated its guidelines for universal masking in indoor public places regardless of vaccination status. Despite the CDCs recommendations, some universities, primarily in conservative states, refuse to institute mask or vaccination mandates citing state laws that prohibit such restrictions. The US Education Department on Monday said it has initiated investigations into five states, including Iowa, Oklahoma, South Carolina, Tennessee and Utah, where universal mask mandates are prohibited in schools. The five states have Republican governors who have argued that wearing a mask should be up to the parents and have enacted laws prohibiting or restricting mandates. The department said those five states may be violating civil rights laws protecting students with disabilities. These students are at heightened risk of severe illness from COVID, and the states prohibitions on mask mandates may restrict their access to a free appropriate public education, explained the department. Its simply unacceptable that state leaders are putting politics over the health and education of the students they took an oath to serve, Education Secretary Miguel Cardona said in a statement. A group of students and faculty at Georgia State University held a demonstration on Monday to demand a mask mandate and vaccine requirement. The protest came shortly after a teacher from the university was fired after refusing to teach inperson classes where masks werent worn. Georgias state university system encourages masks but doesnt allow mask or vaccine mandates at its  schools. Last week, a University of Georgia professor resigned in the middle of a class after a student refused to wear a mask properly. Another professor resigned from the Georgia College and State University earlier this month after a conflict with a student over masks. More professors have been reported to have quit over lack of stringent safety measures while the universities mandate facetoface teaching. A professor of journalism in Tennessee and an economics professor in Pennsylvania also recently resigned after their universities denied their requests to teach remotely. The Coalition for a Just University at Pennsylvania State University has held two protests this month to call for the school to require COVID vaccines across the ,student campus. The group organized hundreds of teachers to participate in remote instruction in the first week of the new semester as the university leaders wanted a full return to inperson instruction. Last week, the group held a second protest where about  faculty members rallied to demand a vaccine mandate. With the Food and Drug Administration granting full approval to Pfizers coronavirus vaccine last week, more colleges across the country are expected to require students to get the shots. Ohio State University is one of the schools that started implementing a vaccine requirement following the approval. Oleg Wang, a civil engineering student at Ohio State, is a supporter of the vaccine mandate and said almost everyone around him has been vaccinated. He has been closely watching the vaccination rate at his school. It should be safe if the voluntary vaccination rate is high when a mandate is absent, said Wang. The vaccination rate at the Ohio State was  percent in July, according to the university. The University of Utah also announced on Aug  that it will begin imposing a vaccine mandate after nearly , students and faculty members had signed an online petition calling for the school to mandate vaccination. According to the organizer of the petition, the vaccination rate in Salt Lake County was  percent as of Aug . The University of Utah said the rate was about  percent among students. The mandate at the university, however, applies only to students, not faculty or staff. Under state law, mask mandates still remain prohibited for higher education. Some university administrators said their hands are tied by state laws or political pressure. The University of South Carolina had imposed a mask mandate but then rescinded it after the states attorney general said it was a violation of state budget rules. Georgia State Universitys president said in response to Mondays protest that he doesnt have the authority to impose stricter mandates under the policy of the states university system, according to a local media report. Education officials in some conservative states have expressed opposition to their states prohibition on mask or vaccination mandates. Joy Hofmeister, Oklahomas superintendent of public instruction, said in a statement that the states law against mask mandates is preventing schools from fulfilling their legal duty to protect and provide all students the opportunity to learn more safely in person. The states education department will cooperate with the federal civil rights investigation, she said.