Texas dispatches thousands of health workers in COVID surge
2021-08-31 11:04
Emergency Room nurses speak to each other at the Houston Methodist The Woodlands Hospital in Houston, Texas,on Aug , . PhotoAgencies    Texas Governor Greg Abbott is sending , contract health workers across the state to help deal with a surge of patients hospitalized with COVID. The nurses, respiratory therapists and other contract staff definitely arrived here at a pivotal moment, Dr Esmaeil Porsa, president and CEO of Harris Health System, told the Texas Tribune. They did exactly what I had hoped that they would do, which is allowing us the opportunity of a couple of things to provide a little bit of relief for frontline staff who have been running around ragged, but also created an opportunity for us to expand our capacity, said Porsa. Abbotts move came after hospitals and local health officials complained that they were having to outbid each other to hire contract nurses amid a statewide shortage of hospital staff. W. Stephen Love, president and CEO of the DallasFort Worth Hospital Council said that competition among hospitals meant theyre going to take from Peter to give to Paul, so to speak. Thats why using the state with their purchasing power is important. It is the second time the state has taken such action. At the height of the states winter surge, almost , medical workers were deployed across the state, according to the Texas State Health Services Department DSHS. From July  to early August , the state spent more than  billion in federal disaster funds and coronavirus relief funds on medical personnel. Carrie Williams, spokesperson for the Texas Hospital Association, said many hospitals have reached their limits. This surge has come faster and stronger than previous surges, and it comes at a time when the front line is burned out, Williams said in a statement. Texas hospitals and health officials have complained that they had to outbid each other to hire medical staff amid a personnel shortage. According to DSHS, the states hospitals requested more than , temporary staffers between Aug . As of Aug , almost , have been deployed, mostly to the states most populous counties and metro areas. DSHS data show that statewide, , COVID patients were hospitalized as of Sunday, accounting for more than  percent of all hospitalizations. In some trauma service areas, the COVID patients accounted for more than  percent of those hospitalized. During midAugust, at least  Texas hospitals were out of hospital beds. A significant portion   percent  of the hospitalized patients are between  years old, almost doubling the January rate. Last month, more than , Texans died of COVID, according to data from Johns Hopkins University, bringing the overall death toll to , as of Sunday. Porsa said everyone who has died since Jan  at LBJ Hospital and Ben Taub Hospital in the Harris Health System from COVID had been unvaccinated. DSHS data show as of Aug , . percent of Texas population has received at least one dose, and . percent are fully vaccinated. In several counties, the vaccination rate is below  percent, with the lowest at . percent. We will run out of options at some point, and this is really important for people to realize that this cannot go on forever, and they know what the solution is, said Porsa.