Washingtons hubris tumbles in epic Afghanistan fiasco
2021-08-31 10:05
Paratroopers assigned to the nd Airborne Division prepare to board a US Air Force C to leave Hamid Karzai International Airport in Kabul, Afghanistan August , . Photo  Agencies    With the last US military planes departing before midnight Monday, Americas chaotic and bloody flight from Afghanistan has finally come to an end, leaving behind untold atrocities and suffering in this wartorn country. After  years of war and bloodshed, Americas military adventure in the Asian country has proven a failure of epic proportions. Such a debacle is preordained because of Washingtons hubris to dictate the destiny of others. Following the fall of the Berlin Wall, the United States embraced its unipolar moment, which is rare in human history and has already gone. Yet Washington decisionmakers common sense has been blinded. They ignore Americas own chronic political and social woes and seek to impose American values and systems on the rest of the world. Over the decades, Washington has waged wars in Afghanistan, Iraq, Libya and Syria in the pretext of fighting terrorism and promoting socalled democracy, but it has never truly cared about the wellbeing of the local people. Take Afghanistan. The United States spent  trillion US dollars on fighting that war, but little on improving the wellbeing of the Afghan people. The sad truth is that the American political class and mass media hold the people of poorer nations in contempt, even as they intervene relentlessly and recklessly in those countries, said Jeffrey D. Sachs, director of the Center for Sustainable Development at Columbia University and president of the UN Sustainable Development Solutions Network. Washingtons monumental Afghanistan fiasco has proved once again that forcing others to copy a model is doomed to fail. Countries need to adopt developmental paths true to their own history, national identity and unique circumstances. However, it seems that Washington has no interest in learning from history, including its own, but is becoming even more radical instead of rational. Former President Donald Trumps administration indulged in quitting international treaties and bodies, stirring up trade disputes, and imposing unilateral sanctions. Now Trump is gone, but Trumpism lingers. Under the current White House, the United States is seeking to put America First without chanting the slogan, and its recommitment to multilateralism is mere lip service. The COVID pandemic is a test that the United States failed immensely. As the world community badly needs solidarity to beat this deadly pathogen, the United States, with its incomparable scientific research and development capability, has peddled sheer lies of COVID all over the world, hoarded vaccines and tried to politicize the originstracing of the virus. Those despicable acts have severely disrupted the worlds collective drive to arrest the pandemic. When America gives up the spirit of winwin cooperation of the age, it also detaches itself from the trust of the broader international community. As some analysts have pointed out, Americas dullness of the trend of the times and its condescending gesture have gravely hampered its ability to cooperate with others. Then what has bred Washingtons closemindedness and arrogance? It is the egotistic, peremptory and hegemonic mindset prevailing in the American domestic politics. The systemic flaws entrenched in Americas political structure have nurtured the selfish, myopic and irresponsible political ethos in the White House. Amid innerparty struggle and partisan discords, US politicians only cast their eyes on winning elections. They can hardly sit together calmly, think rationally, narrow differences, or reach constructive consensuses. Thus they can hardly serve the fundamental interests of American public. The socalled liberal democracy of the United States does not exist at all. This is, in fact, an Americanstyle autocracy. Washingtons politicians need to reflect. They should understand that military intervention will never be a viable solution, and that their closemindedness and deadly arrogance will never make America or the world a better place. If Washington continues down this wrong path, the Afghan failure will only be the start of many more such failures of the United States in the future.