Will new outbreaks impact growth prospects?
2021-08-31 08:03
A view of Beijing on Oct , . PhotoIC    In the second quarter of , Chinas GDP grew by . percent yearonyear. That was a relatively strong performance, especially given the enduring effects of the COVID pandemic on the global economy. But, for China, it was somewhat of a disappointment a Caixin survey of economists showed the median estimate for the second quarter was . percent growth. Chinese economists broadly agree Chinas potential annual growth rate is  percent. So, taking into consideration the base effect, Chinas yearonyear growth rate in the four quarters of  should be . percent, . percent, . percent and . percent. Yet the first quarter growth was only . percent. This weakerthanexpected performance is, to a significant extent, a result of policy. While Chinese authorities implemented expansionary fiscal and monetary policy early during the pandemic, they were eager to normalize it for fear that it would fuel inflation and compound financial risks. Fiscal retrenchment has been particularly rapid. In the first half of this year, Chinas general government expenditures increased by only . percent, while revenues increased by . percent. Although this partly reflects the base effect, policy was undeniably tightened. In fact, in the first half of , Chinas public budget deficit was . trillion yuan  billion less than in . Monetary policy has remained accommodative, but the Peoples Bank of China, the countrys central bank, has been cautious, to say the least. In the first half of this year, social financing rose by . trillion yuan. That increase is . trillion yuan lower than the figure for the same period of . Against this background, it should not be surprising that economic indicators are increasingly pointing to a slowdown in Chinas economic growth. The countrys leadership is now moving to redress the slowdown. Early last month, the PBOC, hoping to spur lending, said it would cut the mandatory reserve ratio for all banks by  basis points. A few weeks later, the Political Bureau of the Communist Party of China Central Committee released a communique, which said, Chinas domestic economy is still unstable and unbalanced, and called for accelerating the construction of major projects planned in the th FiveYear Plan . The market has widely interpreted this as a signal that the government will implement more expansionary macroeconomic policy in the second half of this year. Such a policy adjustment, though still marginal, raised hopes that growth will pick up in the rest of the second half of , potentially even reaching a level consistent with the potential growth rate. But a policy change might not be enough. Instead, Chinas economic recovery may well depend, above all, on how the fight against COVID unfolds. Since lifting the lockdown in Wuhan in early April , China has managed to prevent any major local outbreaks and to keep the number of new daily confirmed COVID cases in the low double digits. Many people believed that China was on its way to eliminating the novel coronavirus infections at home altogether. But those hopes were dashed in July, when several airport workers in Nanjing tested positive during routine screening. Within days, the highly transmissible Delta variant had spread to  cities in  provinces, and the total confirmed cases in China surged from  on July  to around ,. The government, still committed to getting infections to zero, responded swiftly, locking down highrisk areas, tightening travel restrictions on mediumrisk areas, and quarantining about , people. But similar situations have occurred before, albeit on a smaller scale, and with much of the world still not vaccinated, and increasingly transmissible virus variants emerging, they could happen again. The economic costs of such lockdownsincluding restrictions on international travelare extremely high. Given these facts, some virologists, epidemiologists and economists now argue that China needs to move away from its zerotolerance policy and learn to live with the virus. But resistance to this approach remains strong. After all, Chinas strict approachenabled by its institutional arrangements and cultural traditionhas kept the country virtually COVIDfree for several months. And while the costs are high, especially for tourism and travelrelated services, China can afford them. More importantly, China has some way to go in vaccinating its population. While it has so far administered  billion vaccine dosesmostly of its own Sinovac and Sinopharm vaccines, both of which require two dosesit will need to vaccinate more than  percent of its population before herd immunity is reached, according to its top epidemiologist, Zhong Nanshan. Furthermore, given questions about the longterm efficacy of the vaccines being administered, more time might be needed to provide booster shots or develop more effective alternatives. And even if China does manage to vaccinate a large enough percentage of its population, it is very much part of a globalized world where many countries have very low vaccination rates. So the fight against COVID is far from over. For China, this could mean more smallscale coronavirus outbreakswith the associated economic disruptionsare all but inevitable. Given this, it is very likely that Chinas total growth in  will fall short of previous market expectations. This is not to downplay the importance of fiscal and monetary policy. A more expansionary approach could go a long way toward offsetting the pandemics economic impact. In particular, many small and mediumsized companies that have been hit hard by the pandemic need help badly, and the government still has policy room to offer it. With the right policy mix, China can achieve reasonably good growth in the second half of  and beyond. The author, a former president of the China Society of World Economics and director of the Institute of World Economics and Politics at the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences, served on the Monetary Policy Committee of the Peoples Bank of China from  to . Project Syndicate The views dont necessarily reflect those of China Daily.If you have a specific expertise, or would like to share your thought about our stories, then send us your writings at opinionchinadaily.com.cn, and commentchinadaily.com.cn.