Chinese ambassador urges sciencebased originstracing, united front against pandemic
2021-08-30 11:04
Chinese Ambassador to Malaysia Ouyang Yujing nd L, front, Malaysias Defence Minister Ismail Sabri Yaakob rd R, front, Transport Minister Wee Ka Siong nd R, front, Foreign Minister Hishammuddin Hussein rd L, front, Science, Technology and Innovation Minister Khairy Jamaluddin st R, front pose for photos next to the first batch of COVID vaccines made by the Chinese biopharmaceutical company Sinovac Biotech at the Kuala Lumpur International Airport in Sepang, Malaysia, Feb , . PhotoXinhua    KUALA LUMPUR  The originstracing of a virus during a pandemic should uphold the principle of science rather than politicizing the effort, the Chinese Ambassador to Malaysia wrote in an article published recently. The article, which was titled Upholding Science in VirusTracing, was published on Thursday in leading Malaysian newspapers including the Star, New Strait Times and Sinchew Daily. The purpose of virus originstracing is to enhance the scientific understanding about viruses, allowing countries to deal with major infectious diseases in the future, Chinese Ambassador Ouyang Yujing wrote in the article. From mankinds experience, the originstracing of AIDS, Ebola, MERS, SARS and the  Swine Flu involved complicated scientific problems across multiple disciplines and fields. The originstracing of COVID is no different, and the answer can only be found by scientists through research, he wrote. An increasing amount of evidence shows that the novel coronavirus has long been lurking in human communities. Research conducted by medical institutions and medical experts showed that COVID was detected in Europe as early as November , and they believed that based on the overall situation, it is an obvious fact that COVID has multiple origins and broke out in multiple places, the article read. On July ,  internationallyrenowned scientists, including a wellknown Malaysian virologist, published an open letter in The Lancet noting that COVID generated and evolved in nature, it said. On July , scientists from the United States, Britain and Australia published a preprint paper on Zenodo, a European research datasharing platform, pointing out that no evidence showed COVID originated from the Wuhan labs, it further said. Nonetheless, several countries disregard these existing pieces of scientific evidence. Instead, they politicize the matter, instruct intelligence agencies to carry out originstracing investigations, smear and slander other countries, and even threaten and press the World Health Organization WHO secretariat and international experts by all kinds of means, the article said. China actively engaged in originstracing cooperation with the WHO from the early outbreak of COVID, and shared the genome sequencing of the virus at the earliest time possible, the ambassador wrote in the article. China also invited WHO experts to China twice for originstracing research, and provided the expert team full support. They visited every site on their list and met every individual they asked for, it said. After that, the WHO released the ChinaWHO joint study report on COVID originstracing which clearly concluded that a lab leak of COVID is extremely unlikely. Over  countries, whether through letters to the WHO directorgeneral, statements or diplomatic notes, expressed their support for the ChinaWHO joint study report and opposed the politicizing of COVID origintracing, the article further said. More than  political parties, organizations and think tanks from over  countries and regions submitted a joint statement to the WHO secretariat, urging the WHO to conduct COVID originstracing research in an objective and fair manner, it added. The virus has no borders, nor does it recognize ethnicity. China, like other countries, is a victim of the pandemic, the ambassador noted. As the virus continues to mutate and wreak havoc, combating the pandemic remains our utmost priority, he said.