US claims it is outperforming China are inflated
2021-08-30 07:49
While much of the US economy has reopened, businesses such as these in San Francisco on Aug  require patrons and employees to show proof of COVID vaccination. PHOTOXINHUA    According to data from the United States, its GDP growth rate for the second quarter reached . percent, while that of China was . percent. Which prompted certain US media outlets to claim that the US had surpassed China in terms of economic growth, and some have even predicted that the US could maintain a higher growth rate than China for the rest of the year. That comparison might not be that accurate. China as the first major country to get the novel coronavirus largely under control, has kept stable economic growth for  and  except for the first quarter of . In comparison, the US suffered from minus growth for three successive quarters in  and did not turn positive until . If one calculates their growth rate compared with last year, the US digits of course look more significant. The US growth is less impressive if compared with . In that sense, Chinas growth rate for the two years exceeds  percent, while that of US is only about  percent. The fact is that the US still faces economic difficulties. In order to overcome the difficulties, the White House has adopted an almost unprecedented stimulus plan worth  trillion in total in the first half year alone, with more to come in the near future. Yet that stimulus is bringing a heavier burden and greater risks to the US. Currently, the US federal debt has already exceeded  percent that of its annual budget, while its debt ceiling, frozen for two years, will soon reach the deadline. The US government faces the risk of debt default in the coming months. Besides, the stimulus policy is fueling inflation, which is dealing a huge blow to the confidence of US consumers. Worse, the service sector of the US is not recovering as well as expected, and only onethird of its employees in metropolises have come back to offices to work. All these make its economic growth not that sustainable. Worse, the US is facing a new wave of the COVID pandemic as the Delta variant is spreading. Southern states such as Florida have a daily rate of new infections that is as high as that of , yet the number of people vaccinated is rising at a rather slow rate. The US needs to boost its economy in a concrete manner, instead of playing word games and creating the illusion of winning.