SE Asia a step nearer to making homegrown shots
2021-08-30 07:44
Indonesian students receive a dose of COVID vaccine during a vaccination program for students in Bogor on the outskirts of Jakarta on Saturday.ANTARA FOTOARIF FIRMANSYAHREUTERS    Amid a global shortage of vaccines and a new wave of COVID infections, some countries in Southeast Asia are rushing to develop their own coronavirus shots. After promising results from the phase  clinical trial of the experimental vaccine ChulaCov, researchers at Chulalongkorn University in Thailand began the phase a trial on  volunteers on Thursday, on track to become Southeast Asias first mRNA vaccine. The vaccine can induce a very strong antibody response, which is as good as Pfizer, said Kiat Ruxrungtham, director of the ChulaCov mRNA vaccine development program and founder of the Chula Vaccine Research Center, the research team behind ChulaCov. Unlike inactivated vaccines that contain a protein or other small pieces taken from a virus, mRNA vaccines prompt the human body to make a protein that triggers an immune response. According to the results made public on Aug , based on the phase  trial on  volunteers, ChulaCov can  percent block viral binding of SARSCoV, the virus that causes COVID, to human cells, which is similar to that of Pfizer. It can build immunity against four virus variants namely Alpha, Beta, Gamma and Delta. Tcell response The vaccine is also able to induce a strong Tcell response, Kiat said. Tcell response plays a vital role in getting rid of infected cells and reducing virus in the tissues. After the phase a trial, Kiat said, there will be a phase b trial on , volunteers in October and then possibly a phase  trial on , to , volunteers. He hopes Thai authorities can consider easing the regulations on Thaimade vaccines and approve the teams vaccine for emergency use without phase  trial results as long as the vaccines safety and efficacy can be proved, he said. Kiat hopes the teams vaccine can be approved for emergency use before the Thai new year in April. In Indonesia, the countrys Food and Drug Monitoring Agency has allowed Airlangga University and PT Biotis to further develop the homegrown COVID vaccine Merah Putih. The chairwoman of the agency, Penny Lukito, said on Aug  that the joint research by the university and Biotis is the most promising among the six domestic institutions and universities taking part in developing the Merah Putih vaccine. The university and Biotis are developing an inactivated vaccine in which researchers culture virus particles in the laboratory and later kill them to destroy their diseaseproducing capacity. They have already concluded animal trials and may soon start human clinical trials. Lukito said the agency may issue emergencyuse authorization by the first half of next year. The journey of developing homegrown vaccine is still quite long, said Irma Hidayana, cofounder of Lapor COVID, a data monitoring group in Jakarta. Merah Putih cant help the vaccination program in a very near future as we immediately need the supply now. Indonesias vaccination program was launched in January with the aim of inoculating . million people this year.