US still divided over vaccines as pandemic spreads
2021-08-27 16:47
Protesters rally against vaccine mandates at City Hall on Aug ,  in New York. PhotoAgencies    The political divides in the US remain as large as ever, if not larger, over vaccines as the COVID pandemic continues spreading, according to an article posted in the Washington Post on Aug . With the first full FDA approval of the PfizerBioNTech vaccine, many highprofile Republicans are still resisting. According to a recent study of how the residents of various countries view their coronavirus restrictions conducted by the Pew Research Center, the political split in the US was bigger than in any of the  other countries surveyed. Fiftytwo percent of the political right in the US said there shouldnt be so many restrictions on public activity during the pandemic, while only  percent on the left agreed, according to the article. The point gap was more than twice that in any other country surveyed. The findings are similar to those of another poll Pew conducted in  countries in the summer of . The gap in views of supporters and opponents of the party in power was also larger in the US than anywhere else. Similarly in January, there was a poll on vaccine hesitancy in  countries conducted by the World Economic Forum, asking whether people were willing to get vaccinated. The US, with  percent willing, ranked th out of . However, this was at the beginning of vaccination efforts. Later in February, the US was the country ranked second for the number of people unwilling to get vaccinated, with a percentage of , less than that in France  percent. And last month, the percentage in France dropped to  percent while the number in the US was  percent, showing a narrowing gap. Another study released last month in the journal Nature Medicine also indicated that the vaccine hesitancy in the US decreased slower four points since April than the average of other countries  points. The support for the governments response to the pandemic increased in every other country, except the US, the newspaper reported.