What to expect from the upcoming US intelligence report on COVID origins
2021-08-26 13:22
IllustrationPeoples Daily Online    The highly anticipated report on COVID origins is finally set to be dropped. Ordered three months ago by American president Joe Biden and compiled by Americas intelligence community, the report will arrive with the perfect timingwhen the US military, guided by the thorough calculus of US intelligence, has completed a swift and successful withdrawal of its troops lingering in Afghanistan. Well, this all depends on how you define successful and how you view Americas intelligence community, which frequently offers up oneofakind intelligence reports from time to time. If you are expecting a meticulous, watertight report that is in accordance with science and facts, you will probably find yourself disappointed. But if you are looking for a specious, preposterous, and IraqHasWeaponsOfMassDestructionkind of piece, its definitely worth the wait. In churning out gibberish and farcical accounts, the US intelligence community is rarely seen as reliable, and its output has certainly been stable in its quality. A brief review of its history will demonstrate how trustworthy the intel body has been. From the attack on Pearl Harbor in  to the  Attacks, from the Fall of Saigon to the disgraceful fleeing of Kabul not to mention the W.M.D. saga during the Iraq Warthe US intelligence community has carried the torch of amateurish intel gathering in its surefire attempt to further fan the flames of war and confrontation. Taking a break from spying on American allies, the US intelligence community has been allocated with the significant task of tracking down the origins of COVID, capturing the spotlight and taking over the tasks of scientists. Bidens move to let intelligence personnel masquerade as scientists is appalling but unsurprising. After all, America is plagued with not only SARSCoV but also a blend of antiscience viruses, reducing them into a melting pot where masks are abandoned, vaccines rejected, and scientists taunted, where misinformation spreads as fast as the virus, and the voices of conspiracists and quacks speak louder than scientists and doctors. What to expect? On August , Jen Psaki, White House Press Secretary, revealed that the findings of the day intelligence probe into the origins of COVID would be finished this Tuesday, but that it would take a few days before it is declassified and made public. What you may ask is the fresh report all about? A similar report concocted by the Republican Party may offer a few clues. Earlier this month, the GOP disseminated a socalled detailed report on the COVID lab leak conspiracy, offering their version of the COVID probe, weeks ahead of the deadline of the report ordered by Joe Biden. In the GOP report, farfetched concerns and farcical trifles were pieced together to form circumstantial evidence pointing to a lab leak in China, e.g., major renovations to air safety and waste treatment systems in research facilities, satellite imagery of Wuhan in September and October  showing a significant increase in hospital visits and internet searches for COVID symptoms, and the like. Come on the worlds selfproclaimed most powerful intelligence community is better than this. Apart from the aforementioned tricks, Bidens intelligence squad might have mobilized some other cheap shots in vain. CNN reported on August  that American intelligence agencies had gained access to a catalog of virusrelated information that contained genetic data from virus samples studied at the Wuhan Institute of Virology. Hard as they tried, experts like Professor Jin Dongyan of Hong Kong University, believed that no concrete conclusion can be reached in the analysis of indirect and circumstantial data.  The sequence cannot tell where SARSCoV comes from. It could even be counterproductive, just raising more questions, said Jin. During an interview with CNBCs Squawk Box on August , NIH director Dr. Francis Collins reiterated that he believed the SARSCoV more likely has a natural origin, standing firmly along the long line of scientists who hold their belief against conspiracies and unscientific noises. The vast evidence from other perspectives says no, this was a naturally occurring virus, Collins said. The reason why the US has been constantly belittling WHOs February report on the origins of COVID and later decided to create their own versions of the report is very easy to fathom the report didnt provide the conviction they wanted it to provide. Unless there is a guilty verdict, the US wouldnt give up so easily. In scapegoating China for its calamitous mishandling of the coronavirus, the US is following the same pattern used in framing China on Xinjiang, Hong Kong, and a whole spectrum of other issues it created piles of antiChina documents packed with lies and disinformation and pressed for further investigations, all from a stance of moral supremacy. Whatever its findings, the COVID origin report ordered by Joe Biden will at least divert some of the publics attention away from the recent developments in Afghanistan, which has dragged the presidents support levels to a new alltime low. But the report proceedings will undoubtedly do nothing to persuade American citizens to put on their masks or roll up their sleeves in the fight against the virus. More likely than not, the report will merely serve as a piece of wastepaper that bears no other value than inciting hatred.