Kenya OKs Sinopharm vaccines use, boosting hope
2021-08-26 08:57
A nurse administers the coronavirus disease COVID vaccine to a man at the Bissil Health Centre within Iibissil settlement, Matapato North of Kajiado county, Kenya Aug , . PhotoAgencies    The approval of Chinas Sinopharm vaccine by Kenyas drug regulatory authority comes at a critical time, as the country ramps up efforts to inoculate its citizens against COVID. As with other countries, the global health crisis has had wideranging effects on East Africas largest economy, ranging from health and economic implications to political and even cultural effects. Kenya is facing an upsurge of infections from more transmissible and deadly virus variants against the backdrop of the hoarding of vaccines by rich economies, which has made it difficult for Nairobi to gain access to vaccines. As of Aug , more than , Kenyans infected with COVID had died, with total cases standing at ,, according to the Ministry of Health. Meanwhile, social restrictions aimed at cutting community transmission of the disease are taking a toll on the economy, with millions of jobs already lost to the pandemic. The International Monetary Fund has reported that Kenyas economy registered disappointing growth of minus . percent in , compared with buoyant preCOVID economic expansion of . percent in  and . percent in . With vaccination seen as the key to recovery from the pandemic, Kenya has set the ambitious target of inoculating  million people by June next year. However, even as advanced economies begin administering booster shots against the advice of the World Health Organization, the dream of developing countries like Kenya to vaccinate their most vulnerable people could be cut short. As of Aug , only , people in the country had been fully vaccinated, with vaccine doses administered in Kenya totaling ,,. This is why the approval of the Sinopharm vaccine for use in Kenya is important. First, China had pledged to supply more than  million vaccine doses to poor countries through COVAX, the international initiative to provide vaccines to developing countries. So Kenya now has a chance to receive vaccines donated by China. Second, with a strong pandemic control program, China, which has administered more than . billion COVID vaccine doses at home, has a better chance to assist developing countries in gaining access to vaccines. China has promised to provide vaccines as a global public good. Third, China is already collaborating with African countries such as Morocco to manufacture Sinopharm vaccines on the continent. This significantly reduces the cost of transportation and logistics for countries like Kenyafurther enhancing access. China has so far sent  million vaccine doses to  African countries, including  million donated doses, according to Beijingbased Bridge Consulting. The approval of the Sinopharm vaccines use in Kenya paves the way for both purchases and donations of vaccines from China. Kenya is now set to receive  million doses of Sinopharm vaccine, with the first , donated doses expected in September. Even before the first COVID case was reported in Kenya in March last year, Kenya and China had witnessed robust cooperation on containing the pandemic. China assisted in training Kenyan health experts on how best to leverage nonpharmaceutical approaches to control the virus. China was also the main source of essential medical supplies such as protective clothing, test kits, face masks and shields, respirators and medicine. Kenya benefited from donations as well as direct purchases of such supplies from Beijing. As the pandemic proved economically devastating for Kenya, China came to the nations aid by rescheduling debt repayments so that Nairobi would have enough resources to fight the disease. Earlier this month, Kenya, along with China and  other countries, launched the International Forum on COVID Vaccine Cooperation, with the aim of galvanizing international synergy to provide poor countries with vaccines. Besides calling for increased vaccine production to address the access gap, the forum also created momentum for synergy in the pandemic fight. That momentum will increase now that Kenya has approved the use of the Sinopharm vaccine. The writer is a scholar of international relations with a focus on ChinaAfrica cooperation.