UK experts warn virus is spiking as jabs effect is waning
2021-08-25 09:51
A person walks past the Bank of England during morning rush hour, amid the coronavirus disease COVID pandemic in London, Britain, July , . PhotoAgencies    United Kingdom residents have been warned that a sharp rise in the nations COVID infections and deaths has begun. The spike, which Public Health England says will become even more pronounced after millions of students return to universities, schools, and colleges in September, is likely to continue for several months. The Financial Times quoted experts as saying the return to the confines of the classroom, coupled with an anticipated reopening of some offices, and a seasonal dip in temperatures that will cause an increase in indoor socializing will all contribute to the resurgence of the novel coronavirus. Public Health England, which is known as PHE and which is part of the governments Department of Health and Social Care, said UK deaths from COVID now average  a day, which is the worst rate seen since midMarch. Throughout much of May and June, the UK daily deaths were recorded in single figures. Ravi Gupta, a professor at the University of Cambridge and a member of the New and Emerging Respiratory Virus Threats Advisory Group, told The Guardian newspaper things could get a lot worse in the coming weeks. There is nothing to stop it happening because  there are still a lot of people who have not been infected with the Delta variant and who will get infected, and some of them will become more ill than others, he told the paper. So, I think there is still a way to go with this. And yes, it is going to coincide with schools reopening, and of course you have waning immunity as well. Waning immunity refers to the fact that many people who were jabbed during the early days of the UKs vaccination programincluding the very elderly and those described as clinically extremely vulnerablemay no longer be fully protected by vaccines because it is unclear how long they can be expected to remain effective. PHE said this week confirmed new COVID infections, which were few during July, now number around ,. It said the number of daily infections is now  percent higher than a week earlier. Similarly, while there were  people in hospital in England on July  because of COVID, there were  on Aug . The BBC noted that COVID, which dropped to th place in the ranking of the causes of deaths in England during June, rose to ninth place in July and is set to rise again. The disease was top of the ranking in England during April, May, November, and December of , and throughout January and February of this year. With COVID resurgent and predicted to become an even bigger problem in the coming weeks, the British government has ordered another  million doses of the PfizerBioNTech vaccine, for delivery during the second half of . The jabs will be used as part of the nations booster program. Health Secretary Sajid Javid said this week the UK is working to futureproof its vaccine program and will roll out this years booster program in September, initially for the elderly and for people who are clinically extremely vulnerable. While we continue to build this wall of defense from COVID, its also vital we do everything we can to protect the country for the future too, whether thats from the virus as we know it or new variants, the broadcaster quoted him as saying.