More US children landing in hospital with COVID
2021-08-24 10:28
Andrew Mitchell, , fills out paperwork before receiving a first dose of the Pfizer COVID vaccine at Harborview Medical Center on May ,  in Seattle. PhotoAgencies    The US is facing another peak in child hospitalizations as the Delta variant of the coronavirus hits communities. COVID hospitalizations for children have spiked and reached their highest levels last week, according to new data from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention CDC, which said the rate was  percent above the previous peak. More than , children tested positive for the coronavirus last week, a  percent increase in cases since the beginning of the month. Child cases have had a fourfold increase the past month, rising from about , at the end of July to , the past week, according to the American Academy of Pediatrics. For the week ending Aug , children accounted for . percent of new cases, according to the data. While the US Food and Drug Administration FDA granted full approval to the PfizerBioNTech Covid vaccine Monday, children under age  arent yet eligible to be vaccinated, and vaccination rates for those between  and  remain relatively low. According to the CDC, . percent of toyearolds have received one dose of the vaccine, and among toyearolds, that number is . percent, the lowest vaccination rate for any age group. As of Aug , US hospitals were tending to have an average of more than , children a day, twice the number from the end of July and four times from the start of July, according to an NBC News analysis based on data released by the Health and Human Services Department. When adjusted for the population, pediatric hospitalizations are highest in Alabama, Florida, Delaware, Louisiana and Oklahoma in all but Delaware, full vaccination rates are below the average national rate, NBC News reported. Childrens hospitals are facing more cases as schools reopen. Thousands of schoolage children were quarantined over the past week due to coronavirus outbreaks in schools. In Florida, nearly , students and staff members had to be quarantined after more than , coronavirus cases were identified among the states  largest school districts since the start of school, according to a CNN analysis conducted last week. Childrens Hospital New Orleans has had as many as  children hospitalized for COVID at a time in the past three weeks, Mark Kline, the hospitals physicianinchief told The Wall Street Journal. In , the number never exceeded seven, he said. About half of the children hospitalized recently didnt have underlying conditions, he said, whereas before the Delta variant of coronavirus raised a new increase of confirmed cases, most children who were hospitalized for COVID had other health issues such as asthma or diabetes. He said he suspects the Delta variant likely does cause more severe disease in children than other variants, the Journal reported. Around a quarter of children getting tested at the hospitals outpatient clinics are positive for the virus, he said, compared with around  percent in earlier surges. At the same time,  children were hospitalized with COVID at Nationwide Childrens Hospital as of Monday morning, up from three or four a few weeks ago, Dr Rustin Morse, the hospitals chief medical officer told The Columbus Dispatch. Of those , three were being treated in the hospitals intensive care unit and one was on a ventilator, he said.