Pandemic adds to difficulties facing Thailand leader
2021-08-23 10:14
Food aid and other essential items are distributed to people affected by the economic impact of Thailands coronavirus lockdown measures at the Attarkiah Islamic School in Thailands southern province of Narathiwat on Aug , . PhotoAgencies    COVID will remain a big challenge for the stability of the Thai government even though the countrys Prime Minister, Prayut Chanocha, is wellplaced to survive his third noconfidence vote, experts say. The upcoming noconfidence vote will not bring down Prayuts government because now it still has strong support from businesses, especially the CP Group, said Titipol Phakdeewanich, dean of political science at Ubon Ratchathani University in Thailand. The Charoen Pokphand Group is one of Thailands biggest conglomerates. The countrys opposition parties, headed by Sompong Amornvivat, leader of the Pheu Thai Party, submitted a censure motion targeting Prayut and five cabinet ministers last Monday, according to the Bangkok newspaper The Nation. The main focus was on the governments COVID responses, regarded as unsatisfactory, its slow vaccine distribution, alleged related corruption and mismanagement of the economy. The censure debate is expected to take place this month or early next month. It will be the third noconfidence test for Prayuts government since a general election in . The number of COVID cases has grown, so it is understandable that people are frustrated with Prayut since he is the head of the government, said Paul Chambers, lecturer and adviser for international affairs of the Centre of ASEAN Community Studies of Naresuan University in Thailand. But Chambers, echoing Titipol, said Prayut will most assuredly survive again for the third time because his coalition government has more MPs than the opposition. If another government was in office there is no guarantee that a COVID policy would be so much more effective, Chambers said. Stithorn Thananithichot, a political scientist with King Prajadhipoks Institute, a think tank affiliated to the Thai parliament, said The strategy the opposition uses is that they select all the big names from the key main party of the coalition. This approach will unite the coalition more than create conflicts, he said. Critical juncture The noconfidence vote will make people outside Parliament reevaluate the governments performance once again, Stithorn said, adding that how Prayuts government handles the COVID outbreak will be critical for the remainder of his term. Thailand has had about , new daily COVID cases recently, data from the health ministry showed. The national tally crossed  million on Friday, with more than , cases reported in the latest wave that began in April. The government has decided to extend lockdown measures until the end of this month. The worsening pandemic fueled by the Delta variant and extended lockdown measures have cast a shadow over the countrys economic performance. Last Monday the National Economic and Social Development Council, the state economic planning agency, cut its fullyear growth projection for this year to between . and . percent from a previous outlook of between . and . percent. The Governor of the Bank of Thailand, Sethaput Suthiwartnarueput, said the country will need a further  trillion baht . billion to help the virushit economy, according to Reuters. Titipol said he expects the COVID situation to improve as the government is now working to obtain more vaccines. The health ministry said last week that it will buy an additional  million doses of Chinas Sinovac vaccine to combat the Delta variant, according to the Bangkok Post. The decision came after a study by the ministry showed the Sinovac vaccine is  percent effective in preventing critical illness and death caused by COVID and  percent effective in stopping COVID infections.