Reeling recovery predicted for ASEAN
2021-08-21 07:32
Residents from a slum area, whose jobs or livelihoods were affected by stricter restrictions imposed amid rising coronavirus disease COVID cases, queue to receive cash assistance from the government, at a basketball court in Tondo, Manila, Philippines, April , . PhotoAgencies    Prospects for Southeast Asias economic recovery remain uncertain as the COVID pandemic is expected to weigh on regional growth. After a yearlong slump, three biggest economies of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations, or ASEANIndonesia, Thailand and Malaysiahave posted positive growth rates in the second quarter. The Philippines, Vietnam and Singapore have likewise expanded during the same period. Throughout ASEAN, authorities are now battling the more infectious Delta variant and are depending on foreign vaccines to support their mass inoculation programs. These will allow them to gradually lift lockdown measures, ease the strain on their public health systems and boost domestic consumption. Thailands GDP rose by . percent in the second quarter of this year, according to an Aug  report from its state economic planning agency National Economic and Social Development Council. The figure beat market estimates of . percent. Indonesias GDP rose by . percentits strongest performance since , and Malaysian GDP grew by . percent. Despite the rosy figures, analysts still have a less sanguine outlook on regional recovery. ASEAN broadly remains in a battle with the more contagious Delta variant, said economist Chua Han Teng of Singapores DBS Bank. Movement restrictions imposed to curb the virus are likely to weigh on economic activity for the time being, Krystal Tan, an economist at ANZ Bank in Melbourne, said growth outlook for the region is very challenging given the virus resurgence, tightened restrictions and low vaccine coverage. Tan expects Thailands economy in particular to struggle more in the third quarter given the worsening pandemic and delayed recovery prospects for the tourism sector. The travel and tourism industry accounts for  percent of the countrys GDP. Thailands NESDC has slashed its  growth projection to a range of . to . percent from the previous . to . percent forecast. This is largely due to a new COVID wave that has seen total infections spike to over , as of Aug , more than triple the number of cases from the end of June. The government has also decided to extend lockdown measures until the end of August. Indonesia has extended movement restrictions until next Monday as daily COVID cases remain high. As of Friday, the virus has infected more than . million and killed more than , people in Indonesia, according to data from the World Health Organization. Bank Negara Malaysia has downgraded this years GDP forecast to between  and  percent from the previous forecast of between  and . percent. The countrys central bank said the downgrade is due to the reimposition of nationwide containment measures. Low base effect Analysts said that ASEANs secondquarter growth is also mostly due to the low base effect and it is not indicative of a longterm trend. The yearonyear figures may look great, but they are a horrible distortion of the current situation, said Rob Carnell, head of research and chief economist for AsiaPacific at Dutch investment bank ING. Carnell said secondquarter GDP figures in  are compared against the second quarter of , which is a period of maximum contraction during the initial phase of the pandemic. It would be miraculous if the yearonyear figures were not strongly positive, he said. It is a view that ANZs Tan agrees as well. The positive growth rates in the second quarter were largely driven by low base effects from the first wave of the pandemic in  and will not be sustainable as these effects fade, she said. Tan cited Malaysias GDP as an example. Though the country posted doubledigit growth on a yearonyear basis, its GDP contracted when measured on a per quarter basis. Malaysias second quarter GDP contracted by . percent compared with the first quarter of . Malaysia is reeling from one of the worst COVID outbreaks in Asia, with , new cases detected on Thursday, according to figures from its health ministry. Yang Han in Hong Kong contributed to this story.