Packed US hospitals struggle with staff, bed shortages amid pandemic
2021-08-21 07:31
An Emergency Room nurse tends to a patient at the Houston Methodist The Woodlands Hospital on August ,  in Houston, Texas. Across Houston, hospitals have been forced to treat hundreds of patients in hallways and corridors as their emergency rooms are being overwhelmed due to the sharp increase in Delta variant cases. PhotoAgencies    In the United States, hospitals at overcapacity in several states that have run out of beds are sending their COVID patients hundreds of kilometers away to other states for treatment. The surge in the Delta variant, combined with low vaccination rates, has pushed hospitals close to breaking point in many states, with many patients scrambling to find beds. At a CoxHealth hospital in Springfield, Missouri, healthcare employees are treating patients from as far away as Alabama. Just imagine not having the support of your family near, to have that kind of anxiety if you have someone grow acutely ill, said Steven Edwards, CEO of CoxHealth, to The Associated Press. Hospitalizations are on the rise in the US, with more than , COVID patients being treated across the country, according to the latest data from The New York Times. Unlike the winter surge, hospitals this summer were already strained because emergency rooms were back to prepandemic levels with patients catching up on the care they had postponed, according to the AP. In western Pennsylvania, a hospital system headquartered in downtown Pittsburgh has been fielding a surge in transfer requests from physicians in states, including Oklahoma, Florida and North Carolina, where coronavirus cases and deaths are proliferating. In Arizona, a special COVID hotline is receiving frantic phone calls from hospitals in Arkansas, California, Texas and Wyoming that need to find beds for patients, reported the AP. Many times, there is no place to send people. We just cant get them out, said Dennis Shelby, CEO of the Wilson Medical Center in Neodesha, Kansas. Small rural hospitals in Kansas wait an average of nearly  hours to have their patients be flown somewhere else, according to Motient, a company contracted with the state to help manage transfers. Officials at a bed hospital in Kansas called  other medical centers in several states to find a bed for a COVID patient. They found one about  km away. Dire consequences The delayed transfers can have dire consequences for patients, especially those who urgently need to see specialists or have urgent health concerns such as a heart attack or stroke. Imagine being with your grandma in the ER who is having a heart attack in western Kansas and you are saying, Why cant we find a bed for her? said Richard Watson, the founder of Motient. Even if hospitals have beds, they may lack the staff to care for more patients, after pandemicfatigued doctors and nurses walked away. We just opened  new patient beds in our university hospital. But parts of the floors are not open yet because we dont have the staffing, said Dale Bratzler, the University of Oklahomas chief COVID officer, to Business Insider. More than  million Americans received a dose of the COVID vaccine on Thursday, a benchmark the nation has not met in nearly seven weeks amid a pandemic resurgence. Ai Heping in New York contributed to this story.