Antibodies elicited by COVID vaccination effective against Delta variant study
2021-08-20 10:31
A girl is prepared to receive the PfizerBioNTech coronavirus disease COVID vaccine in Schwenksville, Pennsylvania, US, on May , . PhotoAgencies    CHICAGO  The Delta variant of COVID is not particularly good at evading the antibodies generated by vaccination, according to a study of Washington University School of Medicine in St. Louis. Previous studies had shown that both natural infection and vaccination elicit lasting antibody production. While the length of the antibody response is one aspect of protection, the breadth matters, too. To assess the breadth of the antibody response to SARSCoV, the virus that causes COVID, the researchers extracted antibodyproducing cells from three people who had received the Pfizer vaccine, grew the cells in the laboratory and obtained from them a set of  antibodies that target the original strain that began circulating last year. The researchers tested the antibodies against four variants of concern Alpha, Beta, Gamma and Delta. Twelve of the  recognized Alpha and Delta, eight recognized all four variants, and one failed to recognize any of the four variants. The researchers found that five of the  antibodies neutralized the original strain. When they tested the neutralizing antibodies against the new variants, all five antibodies neutralized Delta, three neutralized Alpha and Delta, and only one neutralized all four variants. The antibody that neutralized all four variants of concern, as well as three additional variants tested separately, was called C. In animal experiments, C also protected hamsters from disease caused by every variant tested the original variant, Delta and a mimic of Beta. Using publicly available databases, the researchers discovered that about  percent of people infected or vaccinated against SARSCoV create antibodies that recognize the same spot on the virus that is targeted by C. Moreover, very few virus variants, only . percent, carry mutations that allow them to escape antibodies targeting that spot. The findings were published Monday in the journal Immunity.