Fresh vision spurs growth, cooperation
2021-08-17 07:09
President Xi Jinping delivers a keynote speech via video at the opening ceremony of the Boao Forum for Asia BFA Annual Conference , on April , . PhotoXinhua    President Xi Jinping has led China to demonstrate its renewed commitment and lay out fresh policy blueprints at various diplomatic events this year to help spur global recovery, shore up solidarity and keep multilateralism afloat. These efforts, introducing new ideas to address pressing issues such as the COVID pandemic, climate change and inequitable growth, have served as part of the constant evolution of Xi Jinping Thought on Diplomacy, showing Chinas great sense of duty as a major developing country, officials and experts said. A book on studying the Thought was published on Monday to present Chinas innovative philosophy on foreign policy and diplomacy since the th National Congress of the Communist Party of China. The Thought is a fundamental premise for diplomacy in the new era and a guide for action, officials said. Since the start of this year, Xi has worked on a packed diplomatic schedule to advance cooperation and consolidate consensus through a wide range of diplomatic events, contributing fresh ideas and initiatives to the Thought. As of Monday, Xi had attended  key multilateral or bilateral meetings via video link this year. In the same period, he had  phone conversations with  heads of state, government chiefs or directors of international agencies. To further advance cloud diplomacy, he also joined more than  events in ways such as delivering video speeches, sending messages or writing letters. In particular, he addressed a number of major economic gatherings and summits to shore up global efforts in pressing for economic recovery amid the pandemic. Such events included the World Economic Forum Virtual Event of the Davos Agenda in January and the Boao Forum for Asia annual conference in April. He also called for advancing international vaccine cooperation, especially the fair distribution of vaccines to developing nations, to help build a community with a shared future for mankind. New updates of policies on foreign affairs and international economic cooperation were set out as the president took part in such events. Deepening regional economic integration, catching up with the opportunities unleashed by global technological innovation and advancing the construction of the Belt and Road were among the key propositions made by the president at such events. To further develop the Belt and Road Initiative, he has on several occasions cited the need to advance quality growth of the Belt and Road and make BRI routes into a path to poverty reduction and a path to growth in order to contribute to the common prosperity of the whole of humankind. Ruan Zongze, executive vicepresident of the China Institute of International Studies, said Xis latest wisdom and remarks address global challenges as well as how to advance common development amid the pandemic, showing a major countrys efforts in honoring its role and duty on the global stage. Behind these new policy initiatives are Chinas commitment to multilateralism, justice and equity, which are winning international recognition and respect, and have enriched Xi Jinping Thought on Diplomacy, Ruan added. Citing Chinas need to further follow the constantly evolving Xi Jinping Thought on Diplomacy, Foreign Ministry spokesman Wang Wenbin said actions and practice must be guided by ideas and theories. As guided by the Thought, the countrys diplomatic service has built on a global network of partnerships and offered Chinas contribution to reforming and advancing the global governance system, Wang said at a regular news conference on June . A new landscape has been explored under the Thoughts guidance for Chinas openingup and winwin cooperation with countries around the world, said Yang Jiechi, a member of the Political Bureau of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China and director of the Office of the Foreign Affairs Commission of the CPC Central Committee. China had built partnerships with  countries and four regional organizations, and the BRI, first proposed by Xi, has been translated into reality as a widely acclaimed international public good, Yang said in an article in Peoples Daily last month. Global welfare in mind Yang noted that as a part of Xis Thought, the vision of building a community with a shared future for mankind bears great significance and is needed in practice given pressing global challenges such as the pandemic and climate change. Following his call made last year to build a global community of health for all, Xi proposed the concept of jointly building a community of life for man and nature when addressing the Leaders Summit on Climate in April. At the same event, he unveiled the countrys ambition to peak its carbon emissions as of  and to achieve carbon neutrality before . These announcements are a testament to Chinas great sense of duty as a major country, Yang said. Over the course of this year, Xi renewed Chinas commitment to multilateralism as a keyword of the countrys diplomacy when he addressed several major events, including the ceremony celebrating the Communist Party of Chinas centenary on July . We will continue to champion cooperation over confrontation, to open up rather than closing our doors, and to focus on mutual benefits instead of zerosum games, said Xi, who is also general secretary of the CPC Central Committee and chairman of the Central Military Commission. Xis speeches and remarks have been promoting multilateralism, endorsing consultation among countries on an equal footing, and opposing a ColdWar era confrontational mindset, said State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi. These comments injected positivity into the world that is clouded by instability and uncertainties and have charted new ground for the theory and practice of multilateralism, Wang said in an article in Study Times newspaper last month.