Children hospitalized with COVID in US hits record number
2021-08-16 14:19
A child dangles a mask while waiting outside of the Houston Methodist Hospital on July ,  in Houston, Texas. PhotoAgencies    The number of children hospitalized with COVID in the United States hit a record high of just over , on Saturday, as hospitals across the South were stretched to capacity fighting outbreaks caused by the highly transmissible Delta variant. The Delta variant, which is rapidly spreading among mostly the unvaccinated portion of the US population, has caused hospitalizations to spike in recent weeks, driving up the number of pediatric hospitalizations to , on Saturday, according to data from the US Department of Health and Human Services. Children currently make up about . percent of the nations COVID hospitalizations. Kids under  are not eligible to receive the vaccine, leaving them more vulnerable to infection from the new, highly transmissible variant. This is not last years COVID. This one is worse and our children are the ones that are going to be affected by it the most, Sally Goza, former president of the American Academy of Pediatrics, told CNN on Saturday. The numbers of newly hospitalized COVID patients aged ,  and  also hit record highs this week, according to data from the US Centers of Disease Control and Prevention CDC. The spike in new cases has ramped up tension between conservative state leaders and local districts over whether school children should be required to wear masks as they head back to the classroom this month. School districts in Florida, Texas and Arizona have mandated that masks be worn in schools, defying orders from their Republican state governors that ban districts from imposing such rules. The administration of Florida Governor Ron DeSantis has threatened to withhold funding from districts that impose mask requirements, and Texas Governor Greg Abbott is appealing to the state Supreme Court to overturn Dallas Countys mask mandate, the Dallas Morning News reported on Friday. A fifth of the nations COVID hospitalizations are in Florida, where the number of hospitalized COVID patients hit a record , on Saturday, according to a Reuters tally. More than  of the states intensive care beds are filled, according to data from the Department of Health and Human Services. The nations largest teachers union, the National Education Association, came out in support of mandatory vaccination for its members this week. NEA President Becky Pringle said on Saturday that schools should employ every mitigation strategy, from vaccines to masks, to ensure that students can come back to their classrooms safely this school year. Our students under  cant get vaccinated. Its our responsibility to keep them safe. Keeping them safe means that everyone who can be vaccinated should be vaccinated, Pringle told CNN. The US now has an average of about , new COVID cases per day, a rate that has doubled in a little over two weeks, according to a Reuters tally. The number of hospitalized COVID patients is at a sixmonth high, and an average of  people are dying each day of COVID, double the death rate seen in late July. Arkansas, Florida, Louisiana, Mississippi, and Oregon have reported record numbers of COVID hospitalizations this month, according to a Reuters tally, pushing healthcare systems to operate beyond their capacity. Our hospitals are working to maximize their available staff and beds, including the use of conference rooms and cafeterias, Florida Hospital Association President Mary Mayhew said in a statement on Friday. In Oregon, Governor Kate Brown said on Friday that she was sending  National Guard members to assist overwhelmed hospitals, with , members in total available to help. In Jackson, Mississippi, federal medical workers are assisting understaffed local teams at a bed triage center in the parking garage of the University of Mississippi Medical Center UMMC to accommodate the overflow of COVID patients. Fifteen children and  adults were hospitalized with COVID at UMMC as of Saturday morning, the hospital said. More than  percent of those patients were unvaccinated. Reuters