Trudeau calls snap election, seeks third term as Canadian PM
2021-08-16 14:00
Canadas Prime Minister Justin Trudeau speaks during a news conference at Rideau Hall in Ottawa, on Aug , . PhotoAgencies    OTTAWA  Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau on Sunday called a snap national vote for Sept , less than two years after he led the Liberal Party to a second term in government. The announcement also came more than two years before he would be required to call an election under a fixedelectiondate law. Canadians deserve to have their voices heard ... in this extraordinarily consequential historic moment, Trudeau said, referring to the choices voters must make in terms of which party is best to lead the country toward recovery from the COVID pandemic, now in its fourth wave in Canada. Under his Liberal governments watch, Canada has become a global leader in vaccination rates, with almost  percent of eligible Canadians, aged  and older, having received at least one dose as of Aug , and  percent fully vaccinated. On Friday, Trudeaus government announced that it would require travelers on domestic planes, trains and cruise ships to be fully vaccinated, and make vaccination mandatory for federal public servants and potential employees of federally regulated industries, such as banks and airlines, affecting more than a million people. The current election campaign will cost  million, which for Canadas opposition parties, is an unnecessary expense and exercise and a raw powergrab by Trudeau to restore the majority of seats which his Liberals held in the House of Commons following the  election, but which were reduced to a minority in the  election. Earlier in the summer, publicopinion polls showed the Liberals were poised to regain a majority government with  out of the  seats in the Commons. But over the past week, the margin has shrunk between them and the Official Opposition Conservatives led by Erin OToole, now in his first election campaign to become prime minister. The leftofcenter New Democratic Party NDP could also prove to be a wild card in the day election campaign  the minimum period required by Canadian law. Led by the popular Jagmeet Singh, the first nonwhite leader of a federal Canadian party, the NDP shares the progressivevoter space with the Liberals and has already promised universal drug coverage, a guaranteed livable income and a wealth tax  campaign pledges that could attract younger voters who in  threw their support behind Trudeau. Canadas th general election campaign will be different from any other as all political parties will be forced to adapt to the pandemic realities of limiting public gatherings.