Putting people first is the principle of Chinas antipandemic strategy
2021-08-16 10:06
A student receives a dose of COVID vaccine at a vaccination point in Danzhai County, southwest Chinas Guizhou Province, Aug. , . Photo by Yang WukuiXinhua    Some US media have recently conspired to attack Chinas antipandemic strategy, claiming that Chinas approach to tackling the virus will lead to its longterm isolation from the world. These groundless claims deliberately distort the truth and ignore the essence of Chinas antipandemic fight. Since the onset of the pandemic, China, insisting that the rights to subsistence and development are primary basic human rights, has regarded protecting people and their lives as its top priority. That is the principle of the countrys antipandemic strategy. On that basis, the Chinese government has scientifically coordinated its pandemic prevention and economic and social development. As a result, China has taken the lead in resuming work and production, becoming the only major economy that registered positive growth in . This year, Chinas economic growth continues to lead the world, with foreign trade maintaining upward momentum. By July, Chinas imports and exports had registered positive yearonyear growth for the th consecutive month. Meanwhile, the Chinese antipandemic strategy provides a strong guarantee for sustained economic recovery. Instead of being isolated, China will certainly be more closely linked to the world in the future. Many multinational companies have continued to achieve remarkable results in the Chinese market and already reiterated their confidence in China. Such hardwon achievements are a testament to the extraordinary leadership of the Communist Party of China and the advantages of Chinas system. The Chinese people will never forget that in the face of the sudden outbreak of the pandemic, the country has been putting their lives and health front and center. Countless heroes have made sacrifices and contributed to the mission of protecting peoples lives. The facts stand as a living proof of Chinas scientific and effective strategy in containing the virus. In sharp contrast, the United States, with the best medical resources, ranks first in the world in both confirmed cases and deaths. Disregarding the problems of their own country, certain US media are raising illfounded questions about Chinas strategy, revealing a combination of arrogance and envy on their part. In fact, the US failure is an inevitable result of the inherent flaws of the countrys political system and values. The politicians understatement of the virus risks, the breakdown of prevention mechanisms amid partisan struggle, racial discrimination and the wealth gap all play a role in making the United States the worlds worst failure when it comes to containing the pandemic. Worst of all, instead of putting peoples lives first, some US politicians have chosen to put money first. In public, they advocate protecting human rights, but in real actions, they are in fact protecting the interests of the rich and those with power. Maybe, those US media should dig into the root cause of the US debacle in containing the pandemic and expose the underlying hypocrisy and double standards. That would be the right thing to do.