Jordan keen for more Chinese investment
2021-08-16 09:34
Photo taken on July ,  shows Hammam street in AsSalt, Jordan. PhotoXinhua    Building on ties that have deepened during the pandemic, China and Jordan can promote greater connectivity in all spheres and help smooth the way for more Chinese investment into the Middle Eastern country, experts say. Furkan Halit Yolcu, a research assistant at the Sakarya Universitys Middle East Institute in Turkey, said increased Chinese investment would help offset the impact of the pandemic on Jordans tourism sector. With the reduced flow of visitors, Yolcu said, Jordan will be more eager than ever for foreign support and direct investment. The Jordan Investment Commission has reported that foreign direct investment grew  percent to about  million last year. Funds were going into  projects that are expected to generate , jobs. Chinas Ambassador to Jordan, Chen Chuandong, said bilateral trade grew . percent in the first two quarters of . In June, the Amman Chamber of Commerce, or ACC, called for increased Chinese investment when its representatives met Chinese embassy officials. They stressed the need to boost Jordans exports to China. The chambers representatives are also keen to carry out trade missions once virus restrictions are eased. Jordans location and stability make it an ideal investment destination for many countries, including China. Metri Mdanat, an associate professor at the School of Management and Logistics Sciences at the German Jordanian University in Amman, said Jordan has many investment opportunities that can benefit Chinese investors, including in manufacturing, transportation and information communications and technology. Trade partners According to the Chinese embassy in Jordan, China is Jordans thirdlargest trade partner and its secondlargest source of imports. Bilateral trade hit a record high of . billion in . It fell to . billion in , affected by the pandemic and other unfavorable factors. Jordans exports to China stood at  million in , according to the ambassador. Yolcu said China can benefit from engaging in governmentfunded investment projects such as highway construction and maintenance. It can also target exports in sectors from clothing to electronic devices. Jordan can benefit from Chinese expertise in agriculture, information technology, and Chinas provision of educational and vocational training scholarships, the ACC said. Anis Khayati, an assistant professor in the Economics and Finance Department in the College of Business Administration at the University of Bahrain, said the quality of Jordans human resources could be transformed through such cooperation. He cited Chinas efforts in introducing G mobile technology in the Middle East. Regarding infrastructure, China and Jordan in  signed a . billion agreement for the construction of Jordans first power plant fueled by shale oil and a national railway project. In  the countries followed that up with a . million agreement to finance the expansion of Jordans AlSalt Road. Then there has been the assistance during the pandemic. In April, China donated supplies of the Sinopharm COVID vaccine as part of the growing collaboration between the two countries. Yolcu said Chinese financing in the form of interestfree loans or grants would help relieve the pressure on the countrys public finances. Domestically, efforts to improve Jordans economy can be traced to a year blueprint for economic and social development called Jordan  that Jordan launched in May . The various trade agreements that Jordan has signed with China can benefit both current and new investors coming to Jordan, Mdanat said.