Humanity also must overcome virus of the mind
2021-08-16 09:31
People walk by a sign requesting guest to wear a mask against the coronavirus disease COVID in New York City, New York, on July , . PhotoAgencies    There is no cure in the world for viruses of the mind, which lead to minds being infected with hate, prejudice, distortion of facts and deceit. Humanity will find a cure for COVID one way or another, but the virus plaguing the minds of leaders with a deep hate for what China has achieved has no cure. This virus is causing more damage to global antipandemic efforts than any other challenge. Ongoing politicization and stigmatization about the origin of the virus, with continued propaganda from the United States against China, does not augur well. Humanity is fighting desperately to get a breath of fresh air, and to live and thrive peacefully amid the onslaught of the virus. The recent secondphase plan announced by the World Health Organization has reflected that this virus of the mind can defy not only consciousness but science, too. With the virus mutating at a faster speed, a few countries are busy fueling stigma against certain groups, countries and peoples. The vaccine program is its early victim, as the paranoia has resulted in hampering the efforts to vaccinate communities. This has to stop and should stop immediately, if we are honestly trying to save humanity. We need to find the cure to the virus of the mind as early as we possibly can. The virus is mutating at a faster pace and if this virus will stay in our communities, this will be a huge challenge for all of us. Unless and until we end this dangerous political virus, which is a virus of hate and stigma, we will fail to save precious lives. Since the first cases of COVID were found, there has been a slander campaign against China based on malicious intentions. The world has witnessed how quickly and swiftly China has controlled the spread of the coronavirus at home and how it has offered help abroad. Despite repeated calls by the Chinese authorities for foreigners not to leave the country in order to better control the coronavirus, many nations globally, including the US, preferred to defy science and evacuated their nationals. Having turned deaf ears to the calls from the Chinese authorities, COVID further spread globally and aggravated the situation. If, at that time, the US could have acted responsibly and cooperated with China without indulging in dirty politics, this pandemic could have been controlled. Defying science and wisdom does not augur well for efforts to curb the coronavirus, and this will aggravate the situation that humanity is suffering. As a responsible global community, there is a stronger need than ever to shun all differences, put hate and politics aside and think jointly about fighting this onceinacentury pathogen. The virus knows no boundaries, ethnic groups or nationalities. The virus does not categorize or discriminate and is a common enemy of mankind. It is lethal, and there is a need to end the politicization and find common ground to focus on the cure and on providing available vaccines and health supply support to countries in need. We need to rely on science for the origintracing process. This is a complex and sensitive issue that needs the collaboration of scientists around the world. We can only find the truth by following sciencebased investigations and scientific facts and attitudes. As a result of politics and pressure, the WHOs secondphase plan is inconsistent with the requirements of the resolution agreed to by the rd World Health Assembly. The resolution very clearly specifies that the secretarygeneral will work closely with member states to identify the zoonotic source of the virus and its route to human populations. According to the resolution, in the second phase the WHO needs to work closely with member states. The work plan is not according to the recommendations and conclusions made in the joint investigation mission report completed in the first phase. This report should act as a basis to further build on the conclusions and investigations. Chinas efforts curbed the virus in a single month and then, in around two months, the daily domestic cases were reduced to single digits, followed by strategic success against the coronavirus in China. One of the biggest reasons for this success was that the Chinese leadership realized the nature of the threat, accepted the reality and fought the battle on the front lines. The Chinese government and leadership based its strategies for fighting COVID on facts, science and datadriven methods. The people of China stood strongly together behind science and their leadership. China has not only provided support at home but also has extended help to more than  countries across the globe with vaccines and medical supplies, making an important contribution to the global fight against the pandemic. Mankind will never forget who did what in challenging times. History will be on the side of those who have played their part in an honest and fair manner without indulging in the politics of nowhere. History will remember how the virus of the mind has caused more damage and loss of precious lives than the actual virus. The writer is director of the Institute of Peace and Diplomatic Studies.