US daily COVID cases could exceed , in coming weeks, warns NIH director
2021-08-16 09:09
People wearing face masks walk on Bourbon Street in the French Quarter on Aug ,  in New Orleans, Louisiana. PhotoAgencies    WASHINGTON  US COVID cases could break , a day as the latest surge of the virus driven by the Delta variant is going very steeply upward with no signs of having peaked out, said National Institutes of Health Director Francis Collins on Sunday. I will be surprised if we dont cross , cases a day in the next couple of weeks, and thats heartbreaking considering we never thought wed be back in that space again. That was JanuaryFebruary, that shouldnt be August, Collins told Fox News Sunday. But here we are with Delta variant, which is so contagious, and this heartbreaking situation where  million people are still unvaccinated who are sitting ducks for this virus and thats the mess were in. Were in a world of hurt and its a critical juncture to try to do everything we can to turn that around, said Collins. The sharp rise in the number of pediatric cases in the country is very worrisome, he said, noting at least  children have died from the virus. And right now we have almost , kids in the hospital. Many of them in ICU, some of them under the age of four. So anybody tries to tell you, dont worry about the kids. Virus wont really bother them. Thats not the evidence, said Collins. Especially with Delta being so contagious kids are very seriously at risk and its up to all of us to do everything we can to protect them as well as were trying to protect everybody else. Children under the age of  have not been authorized to receive the COVID vaccine. As of Saturday, the country has averaged about , daily new cases over the last seven days, a number that has risen every day since July , according to data from Johns Hopkins University. Almost , COVID cases among children were reported in the past week, a continuing substantial increase, said the American Academy of Pediatrics in a report updated on Monday. Nearly . million children had tested positive for COVID in the country as of Aug  since the onset of the pandemic.