US callously indifferent to being a superspreader of the virus China Daily editorial
2021-08-15 20:39
Images of New Yorkers lost to the COVID pandemic are projected onto the Brooklyn Bridge in New York, the United States, March , . PhotoXinhua    With the most advanced medical research and healthcare system in the world, the United States should have been the strongest link in the worlds defensive line against the novel coronavirus. Nevertheless, it has proved to be the weakest. Although it has only  percent of the worlds population, the country accounts for  percent of the global COVID infections. It is the US failure to respond to the pandemic at home and its governments divisive efforts to try and politicize it that has caused more than , deaths on US soil due to the disease, hindered the progress of efforts to contain the virus and sabotaged the global solidarity required for that. After systematically combing through the facts, a research report on the US response to the pandemic jointly published by three Chinese think tanks last week concluded that after the US administration realized it had lost the golden opportunity of getting the virus under control at home, it gave up trying to contain it and started loosening its exit controls, which enabled the virus to spread to other countries. The US governments selfish and brazen thinking is that if it cannot control the virus at home, just let it go where it wants. Statistics show that from April  to March this year, people from the US made . million outbound trips, and between November  and January this year, when the average daily infections in the country hit about ,, there were , outbound trips a day on average. Reportedly, among the variants of the virus in Israel,  percent are from the US. About  percent of imported cases in the Republic of Korea are from the US, and about  percent of the cases in Australia originate from the US. What is more shocking is that Washington has repatriated large numbers of illegal immigrants to their home countries in Latin America, while the pandemic is raging in the US. Many of the returnees have been infected with the virus, spreading it to Guatemala, Jamaica, Mexico, Haiti, and elsewhere. No wonder more than  agencies from the US and beyond have issued a joint statement criticizing the callousness of the US government in driving away these illegal immigrants, without taking any quarantine measures to protect them. Moreover, the US has around  military bases around the world, and its military personnel have spread the virus to the countries where they are stationed, thanks to the US military personnels defiance of local pandemic prevention and control measures. The parsimony of the US in supplying its surplus of vaccines to the world, and the indifference it displays to the fact that it is serving as a main source of imported infections in countries around the world speaks volumes about the US governments callous indifference to harm it is doing by not making greater efforts to control the virus. The more political manipulations US politicians conduct, displaying their shameful disregard for peoples lives, the more firmly they will be nailed to historys pole of shame.