Pakistan shows solid support for China Ambassador
2021-08-15 19:58
Staff members unload Chinese Sinopharm COVID vaccines at Islamabad International Airport, Pakistan, Aug , . PhotoXinhua    Pakistan sees a bright future in the cooperation and friendship of China, as the two are celebrating a remarkable anniversary, a senior Pakistani diplomat said, while also showing firm support for Chinas fight against the pandemic. We reject all instigation, politicization or standardization. Any Covide virus tracing has to rest on scientific data, said Moin ul Haque, ambassador of Pakistan to China. In an exclusive interview with China Daily on Saturday, the ambassador praised Chinas efforts in battling the virus, calling for countries to work together to tackle the crisis. Through its campaign, China has taken effective measures to control the pandemic, and the people and government of China have shown the unity and discipline needed to resolve the problem, which is another example for the world to follow, he said. Haque also said it would be very unfair for some countries to hold vaccines, as there are still many poor or developing countries lacking doses. We want countries, especially major rich and developed countries, to take this responsibility to help the poor or developing countries, Haque said. This is a time for solidarity. This is a time for cooperation. No country alone can address this challenge. As for PakistanChina relations, the ambassador said he is very hopeful and very confident that the relationship is going to be strengthened and the cooperation between the two countries will become more solid and pragmatic in various fields. Our future is voiced for greater heights. There is a consensus between our two leaderships that the ChinaPakistan relationship is of strategic importance, Haque said on Saturday when Pakistan celebrated its th Independence Day, which falls on Aug . This year also marks the th anniversary of diplomatic ties between China and Pakistan, and the diplomat said it is an opportunity not only to look back what the two have achieved but also to look forward to future development. Speaking of the ChinaPakistan Economic Corridor, Haque said the cooperation has changed the landscape in Pakistan, helping the country with its economic development and connect with a border region. It the corridor is contributing to the prosperity and peace in the region, and we are really grateful to China for its support to Pakistan, he said. Especially during this COVID pandemic, China has stood with us, provided us medical support, and now gives us vaccines. In the past  years, Haque said Pakistan and China have stood with each other no matter whether in good or bad times, and the relationship has now grown to a higher level. The ambassador hopes in the future the two countries can further strengthen cooperation in the field of investment, agriculture and hightech, as well as peopletopeople communications. I, along with my team, with the support of my government and the Chinese government, are trying our best to make the relationship more solid in the years to come, he said.