Philippines detects st COVID Lambda variant case
2021-08-15 17:37
Service delivery riders queue to get vaccinated with Sinovac COVID vaccine in a shopping malls parking lot turned into a drivethru vaccination site in Quezon City, Metro Manila, Philippines, August , . PhotoAgencies    MANILA  The Philippines Department of Health DOH on Sunday confirmed the first case of the Lambda coronavirus variant in a yearold female. The case was asymptomatic and recovered after undergoing the day isolation period, the DOH said, adding it is conducting backtracing and case investigation. The Lambda variant was classified as a variant of interest by the World Health Organization. The DOH said the Lambda variant has the potential to affect the transmissibility of SARSCoV and is currently being monitored for its possible clinical significance. The DOH also reported , new COVID infections on Sunday, the secondhighest daily tally since the outbreak began in January last year. The caseload brings the total number of confirmed cases in the Southeast Asian country to ,,. Since Wednesday, the Philippines has been reporting over , new cases as hospitals struggle with a surge of COVID patients. The death toll climbed to , after  more patients died from the viral disease, the DOH added. An additional  highly contagious Delta variant cases were also detected in the latest batch of genome sequencing, bringing the total in the country to , including  deaths. Aside from the Delta variant, the DOH said it also detected more Alpha and Beta variants cases. Health authorities said the highly infectious Delta variant is driving the nationwide surge of infections. The government is doubling its efforts to control COVID hospitalizations in Metro Manila and several highrisk areas across the country. Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte placed Metro Manila and some areas under twoweek hard lockdown since Aug.  to curb the Delta variants spread and prevent crowding in hospitals. The Philippines, with a population of  million, has tested over  million people since the outbreak.