Africa gears up to address infectious disease threats
2021-08-13 19:49
FILE PHOTO A healthcare worker receives the Johnson and Johnson coronavirus disease COVID vaccination at the Chris Hani Baragwanath Academic Hospital in Soweto, South Africa on February , . PhotoAgencies    In the wake of existing challenges to its health systems exposed by the COVID pandemic, Africa is now set to come up with lasting solutions to emerging infectious diseases that also could threaten its fulfillment of Agenda . Towards that end, through the Africa Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the continent is planning to hold the first International Conference on Public Health in Africa from Dec . The virtual conference will offer a unique platform for African researchers, policymakers and stakeholders to share scientific findings and public health perspectives and collaborate on research, innovation and public health across the continent. Making the announcement on Thursday, John Nkengasong, director of Africa CDC, said economic and social disruptions caused by COVID have threatened even more lives and livelihoods, putting years of human development progress at risk of reversal. Africa has been hard hit by the COVID pandemic. At the same time, COVID has created a historic opportunity to build a new public health order that makes health for all a reality across the continent, Nkengasong said. Together, we can build health systems and manufacturing capacities to effectively respond to multiple health threats. The Africa CDCs inaugural annual conference provides a platform that capitalizes on the knowledge, experience and ambition of Africans to collectively pave the way for a healthier future for all. During the conference, scientific tracks focusing on the COVID vaccine rollout, health systems strengthening and experiences from the COVID response will be covered through keynote and panel presentations, plenaries and participatory sessions with a special focus on skillbuilding for early career professionals. Professor Agnes Binagwaho, event cochair and vicechancellor of the Rwandabased University of Global Health Equity, said by convening some of the leading figures in public health in Africa, the conference will provide a forum to review lessons learned from COVID and shape more resilient health systems that can effectively respond to future crises. We are eager to see upandcoming future leaders take center stage in front of their peers as they work to advance public health, scientific education and research in Africa, she said in a statement. Professor Senait Fisseha, event cochair and director of Global Programs at the Susan Thompson Buffett Foundation, said while the past  months have been full of uncertainty and hardship, especially for women, girls and other marginalized groups, one clear message has emerged To build a healthier and more equitable future for all Africans, African leadership and Africanled solutions are needed. I am so inspired by the immense talent and expertise we already have on our continent, and in awe of the leadership of Africa CDC. Through this unique platform, we can chart a bold path forward to improve health care for all people, Prof Fisseha said.