UN envoy China welcomes electoral progress in Somalia
2021-08-13 09:16
This handout picture taken and released by Kenyas Presidential service communication unit on August ,  shows Kenyas President Uhuru Kenyatta R receiving Prime Minister of the Federal Republic of Somalia Hussein Mohamed Roble at State House, Mombasa. PhotoAgencies    A Chinese envoy to the United Nations said Thursday that China welcomes the progress made by Somalia in advancing its electoral process. Lately, the political situation has largely moved in a positive direction in Somalia. China welcomes the agreement reached by Somali parties on electoral arrangements and the official launch of the upper house elections, Dai Bing, charge daffaires of Chinas permanent mission to the UN, told a Security Council meeting on the situation in Somalia. The envoy expressed the hope that all parties will commit themselves to maintaining national stability and rebuilding peace, strengthening dialogue and holding elections as agreed and scheduled. The UN Assistance Mission in Somalia UNSOM has played an important role in supporting peace and reconstruction of Somalia. China supports the renewal of the UNSOMs mandate and the continuation of its technical advice and support to Somalia for the smooth conduct of elections, he said. China also commends the efforts by Somalia and Kenya in improving bilateral relations and hopes that they will continue their contribution to regional peace and stability, Dai said. The envoy noted that Somalias security situation remains fraught with challenges. China supports the African Union Mission in Somalia AMISOM in its continued coordination and collaboration with Somali security forces on joint counterterrorism operations, he said. He called on the international community to lend strong support to the Somali government in security capacitybuilding in line with the Somalia Transition Plans and ask donors to continue to provide financial support for AMISOM. The UN and the African Union AU need to strengthen communication and coordination with Somalia to reach consensus on the future arrangements of AMISOM, Dai added. Somalia faces challenges such as COVID, extreme weather and locust infestation as well as food and security issues, the envoy said. The international community should step up efforts to support Somalia by helping the country fight the pandemic, enhance its disasterresponse capabilities, provide greater support in development aid and debt relief as well as encourage Somalia to explore a development path that suits its national conditions, Dai said. China has always stood for peace and reconstruction in Somalia. China has helped the country strengthen its infrastructure and economic development capacity. It has also provided multiple batches of antipandemic supplies and vaccines to Somalia, he said. We stand ready to work with the international community to make positive contribution to lasting peace and sustainable development in Somalia, Dai said.