Disinformation Dozen unearthed as force behind fanciful vaccine claims
2021-08-12 09:38
A person dressed as Uncle Sam attends an antimandatory coronavirus disease COVID vaccine protest held outside New York City Hall in Manhattan, New York, Aug , . PhotoAgencies    A Reddit user was pleading for help He finally got the highpaying job he desperately needed with his financial struggles. The company mandates COVID vaccines for its employees. His girlfriend was fully vaccinated and was trying to persuade him to get jabbed. The snag is, he believes the vaccine is dangerous and wanted to find a way to keep his job without being vaccinated. Thats when he got plenty of advice and, in doing so, provided the rest of us with yet another window into the world of disinformation in the pandemic era. One user advised him to quit, saying the vaccine is part of a depopulation plan. Why would you risk your life for money? asked the user on the social media platform. The vaccineshy poster on Reddit didnt update his fellow users on his eventual decision. But his story shows that what people believe about vaccines depends on where they get their information. A recent study concluded that a dozen people are responsible for disseminating most of the false information out there about vaccines. The Center for Countering Digital Hate, or CCDH, analyzed online data and found that  people, which it called the Disinformation Dozen, are the original sources of  percent of antivaccine content circulating on major social media platforms such as Twitter, Facebook and Instagram. Facebook was found to contain the most disinformation. The studys analysis of two months data showed that up to  percent of antivaccine content originated from the Disinformation Dozen. Among the dozen are physicians that have embraced pseudoscience, a bodybuilder, a wellness blogger, a religious zealot, and, most notably Robert F. Kennedy Jr, according to The Guardian. Kennedy Jr has been against vaccines for years and has claimed that they are linked to autism. The study tracked  antivaccine accounts and found their total following among users across platforms stood at . million. And  antivaccine individuals accounted for more than twothirds of the total. The CCDH also found that the platforms failed to act on  percent of the COVID and vaccine misinformation reported to them. Antivaccine messages promoted by the  people include the claim that Microsoft founder Bill Gates plans to inject everyone with microchips by administering COVID vaccines. Other messages talk of the medical industrys plan to create a chronically ill population, that the vaccine is part of the plan to reset the global economic system, and the Pfizer vaccine has killed more people than the coronavirus. Then there are the claims that the vaccines target black people and the pandemic is fake. The CCDHs top spot went to Joseph Mercola, a physician who makes money selling healthrelated products and information. Over the years, Mercola received warnings from the Food and Drug Administration numerous times for selling unapproved health products. The Federal Trade Commission brought falseadvertising claims against tanning beds he sold in .As a result, Mercola refunded the customers . million. His book, The Truth About COVID Exposing the Great Reset, Lockdowns, Vaccine Passports, and the New Normal, was published in April. It has a foreword by Robert F. Kennedy Jr and has become a bestseller on Amazon with more than , comments and a rating of . stars. Conspiracy lunacy A few onestar rating reviewers called Mercola another person making cash by selling conspiracy lunacy. One reviewer wrote Obviously untrue information packaged with a misleading title. Pseudoscientific and dangerous. Needs to be taken down immediately or reviewed by medical professionals. However, most reviewers percentgave the book five stars. Some even called Mercola a hero for going against the mainstream views. In July, US Surgeon General Vivek Murthy issued a warning about the threat of health misinformation and criticized social media companies for not having done enough to stop the spread of it. US President Joe Biden said that social media platforms like Facebook were killing people by allowing disinformation about the coronavirus vaccine to spread online. To tone down his harsh criticism of social media, Biden later said his remark was in response to the Disinformation Dozen report. These  people are out there giving misinformation. Anyone listening to it is getting hurt by it. It is killing people. Its bad information, Biden said. A  study aimed at promoting vaccination found that messages in the form of images, text or numbers did little to persuade antivaccine parents to increase their intention to vaccinate their children. Whats more, there is a psychological backfire effect that could cause people to strengthen their support for a certain piece of misinformation each time they hear an attempt to refute it. Thats why some experts, such as Steven Salzberg, professor of biomedical engineering, computer science and biostatistics at Johns Hopkins University, called for the removal of the social media accounts of the  because they are indirectly killing people by their actions. This isnt a free speech or First Amendment issue private companies arent required to provide a platform for anyone, he wrote in a Forbes opinion article. If these companies care at all about public health, and about the health of their own customers, theyll delete all the accounts associated with these  people. So far, some social media accounts of the  have been taken off various social media platforms, but their online presence didnt disappear. Mercolas being placed atop the list seems to have discouraged few of his followers. On Aug , Mercola published a video statement on his website as well as on YouTube that he will delete his content  hours after he publishes it. These will be removed to appease the individuals in power who have an arsenal of overwhelming tools at their disposal and are actively engaged in using them, he said in the video, adding that it was up to his followers to help spread his work. His video on YouTube has been viewed more than , times and generated almost , comments within days. The overwhelming majority of the messages support him and condemn the media and government for censoring him. Just saw the CNN hit piece on The Daily Caller. They listed the facts you listed as misinformation when its all true. This is disturbing, one YouTube user commented, representing the sentiment of most commenters. Citing his First Amendment rights, Mercola debunks the CNN report about him to get more attention from his followers. Rachel Moran, a researcher at the University of Washington who studies online conspiracy theories, told The New York Times that Mercola was trying to come up with his own strategies of avoiding his content being taken down, while also playing up this martyrdom of being an influential figure in the movement who keeps being targeted. The unvaccinated population has been driving up the infection numbers in recent weeks, according to the Kaiser Family Foundation, a health policy analysis institute. It reported late last month that coronavirus cases among those not fully vaccinated ranged from . percent in Arizona to . percent in Connecticut. The share of hospitalizations among those with COVID who are not fully vaccinated ranged from . percent in Alaska to . percent in New Jersey, according to the foundation. In Texas, the vaccination rate is relatively low with . percent of the eligible population fully covered as of Monday. It has become one of the hot spots of COVID infection spikes along with other states with low vaccination rates such as Florida, Louisiana and Mississippi. It is reported that dozens of Texas hospitals are running out of intensivecare beds as more than , are occupied by COVID patients. This surge is by far the fastest and most aggressive that weve seen. Almost all of our hospitalizations are due to unvaccinated patients developing severe illness, Desmar Walkes, AustinTravis Countys health authority, said in a statement last week. He implored people to get vaccinated.