Delta variant impacts investor confidence in German outlook
2021-08-12 09:19
A patient is led to a COVID vaccination booth during the Long Night of Vaccination, which featured local DJs spinning tunes for attendees until midnight, at the Arena Treptow vaccination centre in Berlin, Germany, Aug , . PhotoAgencies    A closelywatched survey of financial market experts from leading German companies has found that investor confidence has slumped in the country amid a wave of COVID cases caused by the delta variant. There is speculation new lockdown measures could be introduced in the fall and companies have been hit by global supply chain problems that could hold back the recovery in Europes largest economy, said the ZEW economic research institute, which conducted the poll. The uncertainty comes ahead of next months national elections, which could lead to complex coalition negotiations and also the end of an era as Angela Merkel steps down as chancellor after  years in power. Reuters reported that Germany has recorded more than , COVID cases a day in the last week, bringing the total to . million. It said the nationwide sevenday incidence rose on Tuesday to . per , people, up from . on Monday. However, it noted that the German infection numbers are still lower than they are in other large European countries. The nationwide sevenday incidence in France has jumped to  per , people and to  in Spain, it said. The ZEW institute said its survey of investors economic sentiment in Germany dropped from . points to . this month. This is the third consecutive monthly slide despite economists predicting a rise, and its lowest level this year. This points to increasing risks for the German economy, such as from a possible fourth COVID wave starting in autumn or a slowdown in growth in China, said ZEW president, Achim Wambach, in a news release. The clear improvement in the assessment of the economic situation, which has been ongoing for months, shows that expectations are also weakening due to the higher growth already achieved, he added. In contrast to the pessimistic expectations, another ZEW indicator measuring the current situation improved from . points to .. The German economy has gained from the success of the BioNTechPfizer jab as much of the vaccine is manufactured in the country, and Sebastian Dullien, a professor at HTW Berlin, told the Daily Telegraph that the jab will add half a percentage point to Germanys GDP growth alone. However, Claus Vistesen at Pantheon Macro warned the nowclear reversal in the expectations gauge suggests that momentum is peaking. Quoted by the Telegraph, he said Whatever the driver, the fall in expectations represents an important shift for markets having pricedin an accelerating recovery since the latter part of . Its possible that this is due to fears that new, and vaccineresistant, variants will prompt a return of restrictions, but to be clear, growth had to slow at some point. Recent data from the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, or OECD, identified signs of moderating growth globally, including in the United States, the United Kingdom, Canada, Japan and the Eurozone.