Health authority urges efforts to contain hospitalacquired COVID infections
2021-08-12 07:40
Medical workers work in a lab for COVID nucleic acid testing in Zhengzhou, capital of Central Chinas Henan province, Aug , . PhotoXinhua    Hospitals designated to receive COVID patients must treat them in separate buildings in strictly segmented areas, Chinas top health authority recently said in response to the emergence of a series of hospitalacquired infections. Infected people, symptomatic and asymptomatic, must stay within areas that are completely isolated from the rest of the hospital in all aspects, including the flow of people, objects and air, the National Health Commission said in a notice released on Monday. COVID patients may not cross paths with or share medical equipment with other patients, it added. If a local infection cluster occurs in a region, its designated hospital should empty out other patients and visitors within  hours, so that it is solely dedicated to treating and quarantining people infected with the novel coronavirus. The document also requires designated hospitals to equip isolation wards with sufficient personnel specialized in preventing hospitalacquired infections and must stock sufficient antiepidemic materials to maintain its operation at full capacity for  consecutive days. All people working in isolated wardsincluding medical and management workers, security guards, cleaners and other support staff such as drivers who transfer patientsshould be fully vaccinated before they first enter the wards. Local governments should arrange for them to live in single rooms at centralized places and keep them isolated from others. Targeted training on personal protection and disinfection measures, as well as more frequent nucleic acid tests, will also be provided, it added. Lesson learned On July , a local cluster of infections broke out at the Sixth Peoples Hospital of Zhengzhou, in Henan province, triggered by an imported case of a person infected with the Delta variant who was being treated at the hospital, according to the National Health Commission. The virus has since spread further to infect medical workers, cleaners, other patients and their family members or caretakers at the hospital, as well as some residents of other communities. The city reported six new confirmed cases on Tuesday, bringing the total of confirmed infections since July  to . At least five other cities in Henan also registered sporadic cases linked to the Zhengzhou outbreak in recent days. Guo Yanhong, of the National Health Commissions Bureau of Medical Administration, said at a news conference last week that the outbreak stemming from the hospital was due to local health authorities poor understanding of the epidemic situation, and their inadequate supervision and implementation of measures to prevent hospitalacquired infections. On Aug , Zhengzhou decided to set up another designated hospital for COVID patients by refitting a branch of the Zhengzhou First Peoples Hospital located on the outskirts of the city. As the commission has launched a nationwide campaign to step up oversight of procedures to prevent hospitalacquired infections, local medical facilities have taken action to beef up precautions. Gao Xiaojun, a spokesman for the Beijing Health Commission, said at a news briefing that workers in key hospital departments in Beijing will be given one nucleic acid test per week and other workers will receive them every two weeks. He added that health workers who have treated patients from medium to highrisk areas will be tested every three days for  days after contact.