New COVID cases rise as Canada eases health restrictions
2021-08-10 09:49
Travellers line up to enter Canada as border restrictions are loosened to allow fully vaccinated US residents, after the coronavirus disease COVID pandemic forced an unprecedented month ban that many businesses complained was crippling them, at the Peace Arch border crossing in Surrey, British Columbia, Canada, Aug , . PhotoAgencies    OTTAWA  Canada reported , new cases of COVID Monday, raising the cumulative total to ,, cases, including , deaths, according to CTV. In the past two weeks, Canada has seen daily increased new cases of COVID as public health restrictions are gradually eased across the country. Ontario, the most populous province of Canada, confirmed  new cases on Monday, a decrease from  reported on Sunday, which was the first time Ontario had reported over  new cases of COVID since midJune. The provinces sevenday rolling average is now . Just over a week ago, that number was . A total of  cases of the Delta variant were identified in the last hour period, bringing the total number of infections to , in the province. Quebec province reported  new COVID cases on Monday while British Columbia announced , new cases of COVID over the last three days, an average of  new cases a day and nearly double last weekends average. Alberta province reported  new cases and three deaths on Monday. Over the weekend a total of , new infections were added. COVID hospitalizations in Alberta province continued to rise on Monday. There are now  Albertans receiving care for COVID in hospital, the highest number since July . There are also  patients in intensive care units. Canada unilaterally began to allow entry by fully vaccinated US citizens and permanent residents on Monday after the two countries agreed to close the border to nonessential travel due to the COVID pandemic  months ago. Eligible US citizens and permanent residents must live in the United States and have allowed  days to pass since receiving a full course of a Health Canadaapproved vaccine. They are also needed to show proof of a negative molecular test for COVID thats no more than  hours old and to use the ArriveCAN app or online web portal to upload their vaccination details. The Biden administration extended the USCanada border closure on nonessential travel until at least Aug , citing concerns over the spread of the Delta variant. The Canadian government is planning to open its borders to fully vaccinated visitors from the rest of the world starting Sept . All foreign visitors have to get one of the Canadaapproved four vaccines PfizerBioNTech, Moderna, AstraZeneca and Johnson  Johnson option.