Health pass outlasts protests in France
2021-08-10 09:31
A waiter checks a customers COVID health pass on a mobile phone at the entrance of a restaurant in Strasbourg, eastern France, on Aug , . PhotoAgencies    PARISFrance began enforcing a health pass championed by President Emmanuel Macron in cafes, restaurants and trains on Monday, in a tightening of rules the government hopes will boost vaccinations but which has also prompted weeks of angry protests. The government is pressing ahead with the extension of an existing health pass to cafes, restaurants and intercity travel, despite four weekends of angry protests that saw a crowd of , at a rally on Saturday. Macron, who has expressed exasperation with the protests, hopes the health pass extension plan will help ramp up vaccinations and quell the fourth wave of coronavirus in France, in a strategy similar to that of EU neighbors such as Italy and Germany. The health pass is generated via a QR code through a full course of vaccinations, a recent negative virus test or a recovery from COVID. The government expects a oneweek grace period for consumers and businesses to get used to the new rules. The pass and the vaccination drive should help us avoid new curfews and lockdowns, Health Minister Olivier Veran told Le Parisien daily. The numbers in hospital are still way off previous highs seen in the pandemic, but there were , people in intensive care with COVID on Saturday, compared with , just one week ago. More than  percent of the French population are fully vaccinated. Macrons aides said that almost  million new bookings were made for first jabs since the plans were outlined. Opponents argue that the new rules encroach on civil liberties in a country where individual freedom is prized. About , people protested across France on Saturday, including , in Paris, said the government, exceeding the , recorded last weekendnumbers that are extremely unusual for protests at the height of the summer break. The pass has already been required since July  to visit cultural venues such as cinemas, theaters and museums. Its extension was approved by Frances Constitutional Council on Thursday. It will be needed in both indoor and outdoor areas of restaurants, but will not be required on metro systems and suburban transport. Macron, who faces reelection next year, has in recent days repeatedly taken to social media platform TikTok, popular among young people, to get his message across. Get vaccinated. Get vaccinated. Get vaccinated, said Macron in his latest TikTok video on Friday. Agencies via Xinhua