Africa still recording surging COVID infection cases
2021-08-09 17:15
People practice social distancing as they queue outside a Telkom branch during the coronavirus disease COVID outbreak in Johannesburg, South Africa, June , . PhotoAgencies    COVID cases are again surging across Africa after a slight dip, with deaths peaking weekonweek. According to the World Health Organization, weekly COVID deaths across the continent reached a record peak, standing at ,, in the week ending Aug . The figure translates to a  percent increase compared to the previous week, with South Africa and Tunisia accounting for over  percent of the fatalities. To date, South Africa, which is the most affected country in the continent in terms of COVID infection and death cases, has reported over . million infection cases and more than , deaths. Tunisia on the other hand, is the third most affected country in Africa, with a total of , infection cases and , deaths as at Saturday. The WHO said death trends are on the rise in  African countries, of which  have reported higher case fatality rates than the African average of . percent over the last month. Its a sad day for Africa. Our hearts go out to everyone who has lost friends and loved ones. Deaths have peaked weekonweek on the continent and after a slight dip, COVID cases are surging again, Phionah Atuhebwe, the new vaccines introduction officer at the WHO regional office for Africa, said during a virtual news briefing on Thursday. The latest data tells us that Africa is still on the crest of the third wave, still recording more cases than in any earlier peak, and that we cannot take anything for granted, Atuhebwe said. COVID cases, on the other hand rose, by  percent to over ,  in the week ending Aug , according to WHO data. South Africa accounted for  percent of the cases, which remain close to Africas record high of , weekly cases recorded in early July. So far,  African countries have reported an over  percent increase in infection cases for at least two weeks running. According to the Africa Centers for Disease Control and Prevention,  African Union member states have reported the highly transmissible Delta variant, first reported in India. The variant has been attributed to Africas brutal COVID third wave that has left hospitals overwhelmed and oxygen stocks exhausted. The Alpha variant, first found in the United Kingdom, has been reported in  African countries, while the Beta variant first reported in South Africa has been found in  African countries. During his weekly virtual briefing on Thursday, John Nkengasong, the director of the Africa CDC announced that one AU member state had reported the Gamma variant, first detected in Brazil. Despite the surging COVID cases, Africa is recording positive progress on vaccine shipment. After a tough three months, were seeing more positive prospects in terms of vaccine shipments to Africa, Atuhebwe said. Unsteady supplies are the main reason Africas COVID vaccine rollout has been slow, so as shipments ramp up it is crucial that African countries put comprehensive vaccination strategies in place to swiftly and efficiently protect the most vulnerable. According to the Africa CDC,  million COVID doses have been procured by  AU member states to date, of which . million doses have been administered. So far, . percent of Africas . billion population have been fully vaccinated against COVID. On Thursday, Matshidiso Moeti, WHO regional director for Africa, on Thursday echoed a call by Tedros Ghebreyesus, the directorgeneral of the WHO, for a moratorium on COVID vaccine booster jabs. As COVID deaths continue to surge in Africa, I echo Dr Tedros call for a moratorium on booster shots of COVID vaccines. Its deeply unjust that some countries are already administering third shots while  percent of Africans remain unvaccinated, facing higher risk of death, Moeti wrote in his official Twitter account. Eritrea, and Burundi are the only AU member states that are yet to start the COVID vaccine rollout.