US health care lags behind highincome peers report
2021-08-09 14:18
Clinicians perform a tracheostomy on a patient in a COVID ICU Intensive Care Unit at Providence Holy Cross Medical Center in the Mission Hills neighborhood on Feb ,  in Los Angeles, California. PhotoAgencies    NEW YORK  The United States trails far behind other highincome countries on measures of health care affordability, administrative efficiency, equity, and outcomes, said the latest yearly report issued by the Commonwealth Fund. The United States ranks last overall, despite spending far more of its gross domestic product on health care, said the report released Wednesday. The United States remains the only highincome country lacking universal health insurance coverage, the report said. With nearly  million people still uninsured and some  million with health plans that leave them potentially underinsured, outofpocket health care costs continue to mar US health care performance, added the report. In no other country does income inequality so profoundly limit access to care as it does here, said David Blumenthal, president of the Commonwealth Fund. Blumenthal added half of lowerincome US adults reported that they did not receive care because of the cost, compared to just over a quarter of higherincome Americans. By contrast, only  percent of people with lower incomes and  percent with higher incomes said they faced such financial barriers in the United Kingdom. Still, the United States was ranked in the second place in care process like the rates of mammography screening and influenza vaccination for older adults as well as the share of adults who talked with a health care provider about nutrition, smoking and alcohol use. US health spending reached nearly  percent of GDP in , far above the  other countries compared in this report including Australia, Canada, France, Germany, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Sweden, Switzerland and the United Kingdom. Achieving better health outcomes will require policy changes within and beyond health care like expanding insurance coverage, extending primary care to every local community and having smarter spending, suggested the report.