AU announces vaccine rollout of m doses
2021-08-07 10:05
A medical worker gives a dose of AstraZenecas coronavirus disease vaccine to a man, at the Ruaraka Uhai Neema Hospital in Nairobi, Kenya, April , . PhotoAgencies    The African Union has begun monthly shipments of vaccines acquired under its African Vaccine Acquisition Trust, or AVAT, to its member states. Cyril Ramaphosa, South Africas president and the AUs COVID Champion, announced on Thursday that shipments of . million doses to member states will continue this month. This follows the decision by AU members to pool their purchasing power back in March through the AVAT. The historic agreement led to the initial purchase of  million doses of the Johnson  Johnson singleshot COVID vaccine, with the potential to order an additional  million doses. This is a momentous step forward in Africas efforts to safeguard the health and wellbeing of its people. By working together and by pooling resources, African countries have been able to secure millions of vaccine doses produced right here in Africa. This will provide impetus to the fight against COVID across the continent and will lay the basis for Africas social and economic recovery, said Ramaphosa in a statement. The Africa Centres for Disease Control and Prevention plans to continually ramp up the monthly shipments with a target of delivering almost  million vaccines this year. By January, the number of vaccines being released will be in excess of  million per month. John Nkengasong, director of the Africa CDC, said this vaccine acquisition is a unique milestone for the African continent since it is the first time Africa has undertaken a procurement of this magnitude involving all member states. He also decried vaccine inequity especially for poor countries. During the last few months, we have seen the vaccination gap between Africa and other parts of the world widen, and a devastating third wave hit our continent. The deliveries starting now will help us get to the vaccination levels necessary to protect African lives and livelihoods, Nkengasong said. The acquired vaccine doses are being produced on the African continent at the Aspen Pharmacare facility in Gqeberha, South Africa. Strive Masiyiwa, AUs COVID special envoy, said delivering the first doses to AU member states is an unprecedented milestone, and AU is deploying efforts to help each member state reach its goal of immunizing  percent of Africans.