Aid others before booster shots, WHO chief urges rich nations
2021-08-06 09:32
Health workers from the Permanent Contingency Committee transport a COVID infected woman to the General San Felipe Hospital in the Honduran capital Tegucigalpa, on July , . PhotoAgencies    The World Health Organization is calling on rich countries to delay till the end of September plans to give out booster shots of COVID vaccines to their largely protected populations in a gesture that would allow at least  percent of people in every country to be vaccinated. But the appeal, made by WHO Directorgeneral Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus on Wednesday, fell on deaf ears in the United States, which was among the first nations to begin vaccinations late last year. Tedros, who has long pushed for vaccine equity, was speaking on the day that infections surpassed  million worldwide, according to data from Johns Hopkins University. Tedros said more than  billion vaccine doses have been administered globally, with more than  percent going to high and uppermiddle income countries. Thats despite the fact that these countries account for less than half the worlds population. While hundreds of millions of people are still waiting for their first dose, some rich countries are moving toward booster doses, he said in a media briefing. However, Washington was swift in shooting down the proposal. We definitely feel that its a false choice and we can do both, White House press secretary Jen Psaki told reporters. Also in this country we have enough supply to ensure that every American has access to a vaccine. The US in July signed a deal with Pfizer and BioNTech to buy  million additional doses of the companies vaccine to help with pediatric vaccination as well as possible booster shots. On Thursday, French President Emmanuel Macron said on his Instagram account that it was likely that the elderly and vulnerable would need a third vaccine shot. WHO officials say the science is unproven about whether giving booster shots to people who have already received two vaccine doses is effective in preventing the spread of the coronavirus. Although the WHO chief said he understands that all governments want to protect their people from the Delta variant, Tedros criticized countries that have already used most of the global supply of vaccines and are now using even more of it as the worlds most vulnerable people remain unprotected. Urgent reversal He stressed the need for an urgent reversal in the flow of vaccines to ensure that most supplies went to poorer countries. WHO is calling for a moratorium on boosters until at least the end of September, to enable at least  percent of the population of every country to be vaccinated,Tedros said. To make that happen, we need everyones cooperation, especially the handful of countries and companies that control the global supply of vaccines. He called on the G countries to make concrete commitments to support the WHOs global vaccination targets when health ministers from the G group of nations meet in a month. Tedros also asked for producers to prioritize COVAX, a worldwide initiative aimed at equitable access to COVID vaccines, as well as for influential figures as athletes, investors and faith leaders to support the WHOs call for a pause in plans for booster shots. At the same time, we must all remember that vaccines are not the only tool. Indeed, there is no single tool that will defeat this pandemic, Tedros said. We can only defeat it with a comprehensive approach of vaccines in combination with the proven public health and social measures that we know work. By midafternoon on Wednesday in the US, the Johns Hopkins University had tallied ,, coronavirus infections worldwide, with ,, deaths. The data showed the US with ,, cases and , deaths, both the highest counts around the world, accounting for nearly  percent of the cases and almost  percent of the deaths. India has recorded the worlds secondlargest caseload, followed by Brazil. The global caseload reached the grim milestone of  million on Jan , and doubled in more than half a year. As the most effective tool in the fight against COVID, at least . billion doses have been administered globally so far, according to a count from Agence FrancePresse. Bo Leung in London, Xinhua and agencies contributed to this story.