Sierra Leone, China reap benefits of friendship
2021-08-06 08:55
Photo taken on Feb ,  shows a consignment of the Sinopharm COVID vaccine donated by China at an airport in Freetown, Sierra Leone. PhotoXinhua    For half a century since the establishment of diplomatic relations between Sierra Leone and China, despite the changing international sphere, the bilateral relations have held strong, and the two nations have maintained a high level of mutual trust and genuine friendship with tangible developmental results. Peopletopeople bonds play a vital role in building the ChinaSierra Leone shared future. Driven by the Belt and Road Initiative, our two countries have carried out pragmatic cooperation in the fields of culture, investment, economy, trade, infrastructure and agriculturestrengthening the friendship between Chinese and Sierra Leonean people. The establishment of diplomatic relations was the brainchild of then Sierra Leonean president Siaka Probyn Stevens and Chairman Mao Zedong. At the heart of bitter Cold War rivalries and animosities, these two men made the courageous and foresighted decision to establish diplomatic relations at ambassadorial level. At the dawn of these relations, certain stakeholders could hardly understand the binding force between two governments and peoples that were mutually so contrasting, especially in terms of their geography and culture. Nevertheless, with the highly diversified and vibrant friendship, it is clear that what binds these apparently incompatible governments is their shared vision and aspiration and their zeal to enhance the welfare of their respective peoples through mutual assistance. Our rapprochement has enhanced our mutual understanding, thereby enabling our two countries to grasp and brave some of the complex realities of contemporary international politics. This largely explains Sierra Leones legendary and constant support for China in global forums such as the United Nations. In fact, Sierra Leone was one of the  African countries that cosponsored and voted in favor of UN General Assembly Resolution , which recognized the Peoples Republic of China as the sole legitimate representative of China at the United Nations. Sierra Leone has remained a faithful and strong proponent of the oneChina principle. In other multilateral forums such as the UN Human Rights Council, Sierra Leone has consistently condemned and opposed various moves to brand some of Chinas domestic policies as human rights violations. Such resolute stands emanate from Sierra Leones deep understanding of Chinas domestic realities and its existential challenges. Our robust partnership extends well beyond the confines of international forums. Just a glance at Sierra Leones landscape will reveal some of the magnificent fruits of this diplomatic relationship. Prominent among these are Siaka Stevens Stadium in Freetown, the multipurpose stadium at Bo, the Dodo hydroelectric program at Kenema and the ChinaSierra Leone Friendship Road. Currently, an impressive number of Sierra Leoneans are studying in China on Chinese government scholarships. In fact, well over , Sierra Leonean students have studied in China. More than  groups of Chinese medical workers have served in Sierra Leone. One of the peaks of these humanitarian and medical gestures was reached during the West African Ebola epidemic of , which seriously affected Sierra Leone. President Xi Jinping was the first head of state to explicitly respond to the distress call from Sierra Leone. As you might now realize, it has been a long journey by two mutually supportive friends whose journey started through very modest and lowprofile undertakings, such as the dispatching of medics and equipment to rural settings in Sierra Leone. In , our two governments signed the Comprehensive Strategic Cooperative Partnership. The ideas in that document have been crystalized by Sierra Leones President Julius Maada Bio in a strategic infrastructural blueprint dubbed The Presidential Infrastructure Initiative. The realization of this flagship initiative will permit Sierra Leone to rebuild its wartorn and derelict infrastructure, thereby transforming its economy into middleincome status and selfsufficiency by . Through our enhanced cooperation under the initiative, China will certainly export its poverty alleviation miracle to Sierra Leone. While congratulating our two countries for the th anniversary of our relations, I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate the Chinese government and people as they celebrate the year anniversary of the founding of the Communist Party of China, whose achievements include success in the fight against COVID. By eradicating absolute poverty on such a magnitude and in such a time frame, the CPC has set a record that will certainly remain unparalleled for several millennia in the annals of the history of development. I am looking forward to the dawn of several generations of glorious collaboration, prosperity and friendship between our governments and peoples. Long live Sierra LeoneChina relations! The author is Sierra Leones ambassador to China. The views do not necessarily reflect those of China Daily.