Largescale Beijing events cancelled for virus prevention
2021-08-05 19:31
A medical worker administers a dose of COVID vaccine for a student in Beijing, capital of China, July , . PhotoXinhua    To cut virus transmission and reduce infection risks, Beijing has decided to cancel largescale exhibitions and events scheduled this month, a senior official said at a news conference on Thursday. Xu Hejian, spokesman for the municipal government, said events that were previously approved should be postponed. Several events, including the  Beijing International Film Festival and the World G Convention  both scheduled to be held in August  have been postponed, according to their organizers. There is no indication whether it will affect the  China International Fair for Trade in Services, scheduled to be held from Sept  to  in Beijing. Zhou Weimin, an official from the Beijing Municipal Bureau of Culture and Tourism, said the authority will suspend approval for largescale commercial events, such as shows held in stadiums. Facing clusters in other provinces, the capital has strengthened its virus prevention measures. People who arrive in Beijing from highrisk areas for the virus should undergo a day centralized quarantine and seven days of health monitoring. Those who come from mediumrisk areas should undergo day medical observation at home and seven days of health monitoring. The municipal government has urged relevant departments to carry out timely epidemiological investigations on specific highly mobile groups, including taxi and ridesharing drivers and delivery men. Beijing plans to step up screening of people entering the city from areas with reported COVID cases. It also urges relevant departments to take better care of medical workers at the front lines of disease prevention and control. Beijing reported zero new locally transmitted COVID cases on Thursday. The city reported three confirmed local cases on Wednesday. The Inner Mongolia autonomous region reported one local confirmed case on Thursday, which has triggered a level III alert for virus control and prevention in the region. The patient stayed on the same floor as a previously confirmed case from Nanjing at a hotel in Yinchuan, Ningxia Hui autonomous region, during a business trip on July . On July , the patient traveled from Yinchuan back to Inner Mongolia via Beijing.